
--- Page 1 ---
NITA/ 2Z"d - FC/ Minutes
June 18,2013
ITATIOITAL INSTTTUTE OF TECIIITOLOGY AGANTALA
lYest Tripura, Pin: 799O55
,@ {<*{<*{<rrk*
Minutes of the 22"0 Meeting of the
Finance Committee
held onJune 18, 20LB
The22"d meeting of the Finance Committee ofNational Institute of Technology, Agartala
was held on June 18,2013 at 10:30 am in the Conference Room ofNIT Agartala.
Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman, Board of Governors (BOG) and Finance Committee (FC) of
NIT Agartala presided over the meeting.
The Chairman welcomed all the members attending the meeting and requested them to
participate in deliberation on Agenda points.
The following members were present in the meeting
:
(1)
Prof. P. N. Singh Chairman, Finance Committee and BOG of
NIT, Agartala
(2)
Prof. P. K. Bose Member, Director, NIT, Agartala
(3)
Shri Navin Soi Director, IFD, MHRD, Govt. of India
(Representative of Financial Advisor, IFD,
MHRD, Govt. of India)
(4)
Shri Raju Srinivasan Director (TE), MHRD, Govt. of India
(Representative of Joint Secretary (NITs),
MHRD, Govt. of India)
(5)
Shri SumantaChakrabarti Member Secretary, Finance Committee and
Registrar (i/c), NIT, Agartala.
The Chairman welcomed all the members.
The Chairman then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate proceedings on the
agenda items"
Wq, Page I of3

--- Page 2 ---
NITA/ 22"d - FC/ Minutes
June 18,2013
Item No. 22.L: Confirmation of the Minutes of 21st Meeting of the Finance
Committee held on Marclr?B,2OL3.
The minutes of the 21't meeting of the Finance Committee held on March28,2013 in the
Conference Room of NIT Transit House, Kunjaban, Agartala were circulated to all the
members. The observations given by Shri Rajesh Singh Solanki, Under Secretary,
MHRD, Government of India on the Minutes of the 21't Finance Committee meeting
were also discussed. After threadbare discussion, the minutes of the 2lft Finance
Committee meeting were confirmed.
Item No.22,2: Action taken on the decision of the ZLst Meeting of the
Finance Committee held on March 28, 2OL3 in the
Conference Room of NIT, Transit House, Kuniaban,
Agartala.
The Finance Committee noted the action taken report.
Item No. 22.3: To consider the Financial Status of the Institute as on May
3L,20L3.
The Finance Committee noted the financial status as on May 31,2013. The Finance
Committee resolved to request MHRD to release fund for both Plan and Non-Plan Head
so that the progress of works should not be retarded for want of fund.
Item No. 22.4: To consider the Annual Budget of the Institute for the year
20L3-L4.
The Finance Committee perused and approved the Annual Budget of the Institute for the
year 2013-14 with total outlay under Plan of Rs. 44981.50 lakhs and Non-Plan of Rs.
8878.50 lakhs and fund will be released by the MHRD depending upon the expenditure
and utilization.
Item No. 22.5: To consider the Financial Statement for the ongoing
works/ proiects.
The Finance Committee perused and noted the Financial Statement for the ongoing
works/ projects.
Item No. 22.6: To consider Annual Accounts of the Institute for the
financial year 20t2-20t3.
The Finance Committee perused and approved the Annual Accounts 2012-13 of the
Institute to forward to the CAG. NIT Agartala should take appropriate measures to
submit the Annual Report to MHRD within the stipulated time.
Wr,
Page 2 of3

--- Page 3 ---
NITA/ 22"d - FC/ Minutes
June 18,2013
Item No. 22.7: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the
?Bth Building & Works Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.
The Finance Committee noted and accorded financial sanction and recommended for
further consideration of the BoG.
Item No. 22.8: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the
29th Building & Works Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.
The Finance Committee noted and accorded financial sanction and recommended for
further consideration of the BOG.
Against Item No.29.9 of the 29th BWC meeting regarding construction of 1500 capacity
Boys' Hostel at NIT Agartala : The Finance Committee observed that the approximate
area is coming to 382 sq. ft. per student whereas each room has floor area of I37 sq. ft. It
appears that the amenity area for 1500 capacity boys hostel is more than 64oh. The
Finance Committee suggested to explore the feasibility of reduction of amenity area for
getting more space for student's room, if feasible. As there is urgent need to start
construction of the Boys' hostel, the Finance Committee authorized the Chairman, BoG,
NIT Agartala, to give approval for inviting open tender after taking into the consideration
of the suggestions made. The Finance Committee further advised that in future while
placing agenda for construction of new buildings, a brief statement including cost
summary, the floor area and other necessary parameters are to be included in the agenda
item.
Item No. 22.9: Any other item with permission of the Chair.
There was no such item for discussion.
The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chairs.
4r^^{epnt\
M"ht',
(Sumanta Chakr\abarti) (Prof. P. N. Singh)
Member Secretary Chairman
Finance Committee & Registrar (i/c) Finance Committee & BOG
National Institute of Technology, Agartala National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Page 3 of3