
--- Page 1 ---
NITA/ 24°" - FC/ Minutes
athe May 02, 2014/NITA

  

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
West Tripura, Pin: 799046

2 KK KKK

Minutes of the 24th Meeting of the
Finance Committee
held on May 02, 2014

The 24" meeting of the Finance Committee of National Institute of Technology, Agartala
was held on May 02, 2014 at 10.30 am in the Conference Room of NIT Agartala.

The following members were present in the meeting :

(1) Prof. P. N. Singh : Chairman, Finance Committee and BoG of
NIT, Agartala

(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya : Member, Director, NIT, Agartala

(3) Shri Yogendra Tripathi : Member, Joint Secretary & Financial Adviser,

Ministry of Human Resource Development,
Government of India.

(3) Prof. Nitindra Nath Som : Member, Former Professor of Jadavpur
University, Kolkata.
(4) Shri Rajesh Singh Solanki Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India,

(Representative of MHRD, Dept. of Higher
Education, MHRD).

(5) Dr. John Deb Barma : Member, Asst. Professor, NIT, Agartala.

(6) Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti : Member Secretary, Finance Committee and
Registrar (I/C), NIT, Agartala.

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman, Finance Committee (FC) of NIT Agartala presided over the
meeting.

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman, Finance Committee, NIT Agartala, welcomed all members of
the Finance Committee. He introduced Shri Yogendra Tripathi, Joint Secretary & Financial
Adviser, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India, New Delhi, to all
the Members of the Finance Committee and welcomed him.

The Chairman then invited the Director and the Registrar (i/c) to initiate proceedings on the
agenda items.

Item No. 24.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of 23™ Meeting of the Finance
Committee held on February 27, 2014.

The minutes of the 23 Meeting of the Finance Committee held on February 27, 2014 in the
Conference Room of NIT Agartala was circulated to all the members. No comments/ views/

; ‘wih 9 eo
WBS, men Tras


--- Page 2 ---
NITA/ 24°" - FC/ Minutes
May 02, 2014/NITA

suggestions were received from the Members of Finance Committee. The minutes of 23"
Finance Committee meeting was confirmed.

Item No. 24.2: Action taken on the decision of the 23" Meeting of the Finance
Committee held on February 27, 2014 in the Conference Room of NIT
Agartala.

The action taken report noted.
Item No. 24.3: To consider the Financial Status of the Institute as on April 25, 2014.

The Finance Committee noted the present financial status and requirement of fund under Plan
and Non-Plan schemes.

Item No. 24.4: To consider the Annual Budget of the Institute for the year 2014-15.

The Annual Budget for the financial year 2014-2015 of NIT Agartala (Plan outlay - Rs.
35700.00 lakhs and Non-Plan outlay - Rs.8050.00 Lakhs) was perused and approved by the
Finance Committee with the following observations:

(A) Under the Plan outlay, fund requirements are to be prepared in two categories viz-
Immediate and Priority, The works which are in the final stage of completion shall
fall under immediate category. Remaining works / procurements will be falling
under priority basis. The priority works could be taken up depending upon the
availability of fund from the MHRD to NITA on quarterly basis.

(B) Salary projection under the Non-Plan Head should be utilised only for salary on
actual expenses basis.

Item No. 24.5: To consider the Physical & Financial Statement of the ongoing
construction works/ projects.

The Finance Committee noted the progress of the works with the following observations:

Buildings which are in advance stage of completion are to be completed and put in use
immediately as noted under Item No. 24.4. Furnishing of the completed buildings are to be
done on priority basis. Director, NITA may review the individual work time to time. In some
cases the fund requirements for on-going projects are projected on higher side and that might
be worked out on realistic basis. Prioritizing the new projects, works could be taken up
depending on the availability of fund from the MHRD.

Item No. 24.6: To consider the Medical Reimbursement Claim for Rs. 1,96,269/-
of Dr. Rabindranath Barman, Asstt. Prof., PE Dept., NIT Agartla
in connection with treatment of his wife.

The Finance Committee approved the proposal of reimbursement of the medical claim of Dr.
Rabindranath Barman, Assistant Professor for undertaking treatment in private hospital as a
special case limiting the claim up to the CGHS rate available for undertaking such treatment
in reference to the Government of India, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Department
of Health & Family Welfare, Office Memorandum No.Z.15025/5/2011-CGHS III/CGHS(P),

\uraek ; 2 of 3 Haws


--- Page 3 ---
NITA/ 24°"- FC/ Minutes
May 02, 2014/NITA

dated 22"4 November, 2011. The NITA should work out the claim as admissible under the
CGHS rate and settle the claim accordingly.

Item No. 24.7: Sanction of an amount of Rs. 25,454.00 (Rupees twenty five
thousand four hundred fifty four) only from TEQIP-II towards
cancellation charges for air fare.

The Finance Committee observed that the proposal for reimbursement of cancellation charges
of air fare for an amount of Rs.25,454.00 is not admissible.

Item No. 24.8: Present Status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.
Dr. Ardhendu Saha, Coordinator, TEQIP-II Project, made a presentation on the present status

of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala. The Finance Committee noted the present status of the
TEQIP-II project.

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chair.

5 DO
\und - Xn Furies <,s| 1Y

(Sumanta Chakrabarti) (Prof. P. N. Singh)
Member Secretary Chairman
Finance Committee Finance Committee & BOG
& National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Registrar (i/c)

National Institute of Technology, Agartala

3 of 3
