
--- Page 1 ---
31 NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

West Tripura, Pin: 799046

3B OK OR OK Kok

MINUTES OF THE 2574 MEETING OF THE
FINANCE COMMITTEE
HELD ON JANUARY 17,2015

ERMKRANEHRREKRERKE EERE KR RRR REE

The 25" meeting of the Finance Committee of National Institute of Technology. Agartala

was held on January 17, 2015 at 11.00 am in the Gonference Room of NIT Agartala.

The following members wee present in the meeting:

(1)
(2)

(3)
(3)

(4)

(5)
(6)

Prof. Deepak B Phatak
Prof. P. N. Singh
Prof. Gopal Mugeiaya

Shri Sanjeev Kumar
Sharma

Shri Satpal Sharma

Dr. John Deb Barma
Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti

Chairperson, Finance Committee and BoG of
NIT Agartala

Invitee Member, Forme: Chairperson, Finance
Commit. and BoG of NIT, Agartala

Member. Director, NIT, Agartala

Director (NITs), MHRD, Govt. of India,
(Representative of Joint Secretary dealing with
National Institute of Technology, MHRD. Govt.
of India).

Under Secretary, IFD, MHRD, Govt. of India
(Representative of Financial Advisor, MHRD.
Govt. of India).

Member. Asst. Professor. NIT, Agartala.

Member Secretary. Finance Committee and
Registra (i/c), NIT, Agartala.

At the outset, Prof. Gopal Mugeraya, Director. NIT Agartala, introduced Prof. Deepak B

Phatak, the new Chairperson, NIT Agartala to all the Members of the Finance Committee

Prof. Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson. Finance Committee of NIT Agartala presided over the

meeting and welcomed all members of the Finance Committee.

The Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to mnitiate discussion on the

agenda items.

Meo

fe

1o0fS


--- Page 2 ---
NITA/ 25'"- FC/ Minutes
January 17, 2015

Item No. 25.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of 24" Meeting of the Finance
Committee held on May 02, 2014.

The minutes of the 2.1" Meeting of the Finance Committee held on May 02, 2014 in the

Conference Room of NIT Agartala was circulated to all the members No comments views’

. . . |

suggestions were received from the Members of Finance Committee. The minutes of 24"

Finance Committee mecting was confirmed.

Item No. 25.2: Action taken on the decision of the 24 Meeting of the Finance
re ! Committee held on May 02, 2014 in the Conference Room of NIT
Agartala.

The Finance Committee noted the action taken report.

Item No. 25.3: ‘To consider the Financial Status of the Institute as on December
31, 2014.

The Finance Committee noted the present financial status and requirement of fund under Plan

and Non-Plan Schemes. Finance Committee advised to prioritize the ongoing construction

works and incur expenditure based on availability of fund.

Item No. 25.4: To consider the Annual Accounts of the Institute for the financial
year 2013-14.

The Finance Committee perused and approved the Annual Accounts of the Institute for the
financial year 2013-14.

Item No. 25.5: To consider the Audit Report on the accounts of the Institute for
the year 2013-14,

The Finance Committee perused and approved the Audit Report on the accounts of the
Institute for the financial year 2013-14 forwarded by the Indian Audit & Accounts
Department, Office of the Accountant Gencral (Audit), Tripura. The Finance Committee
advised that an Action Taken Report in consultation with the internal auditor of NIT Agartala
on observations of the Audit Report prepared by Indian Audit and Accounts Department,

Office of the Accountant General (Audit), Tripura to be placed before Finance Committee.


--- Page 3 ---
The Finance Committee advised to form an Investment Committee having at least one out-
side member from other Central Government Funded Educational Institutes to guide and
suggest about the modalities of investment for better return and all other related issues in

regard to investment done by NIT Agartala.

Item No. 25.6: To consider the Annual Report for the year 2013-14.

The Finance Committee perused and approved the Annual Report of the Institute for the year
2013-14.

Tiem No. 25.7: ~ ‘To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 32"° Building
& Works Committee mecting of NIT Agartala.

The Finance Committee approved the recommendations of 32"? Building & Works
Committee with some observations. In case of a few deviated items, the Finance Committee
advised to place all such issues before the Building & Works Committee with details The
Building & Works Committee is to provide a Report with detailed justification and 1easoning
of all deviated items for placing before the Finance Committee. The Finance Committce
noted that in some cases, there were delay in execution of works and suggested to take

appropriate steps as per guideline.

Item No. 25.8: Sanction of an amount of Rs. 16,827.00 (Rupees sixteen thousand
eight hundred twenty seven) only from TEQIP-II towards
cancellation charges for air fare.

The Finance Committee approved to reimburse Rs.16,827/- towards cancellation of Air

Tickets of 4 faculty members between Agartala — Delhi — Agartala sector.

Tiem No. 25.9: To consider the proposal for depositing the Monthly Contribution
(both Employees Share and the share of NITA) trom NPS Tier-l
Account to individual PRAN regularly from the Salary Bill of
January 2015 and transferring the arrear accumulated in Fixed
Deposit Account w.e.f. 01.04.2006 to Individual PRAN,

The Finance Committee perused and approved,

3 0f 5

\ ak Al


--- Page 4 ---
NITA/ 25" - FC/ Minutes
January 17, 2015

Item No. 25.10: Enhancement of Special Compensatory Allowance, Washing
Allowance, Cash Handling Allowance, Children Education

Attowance/ Iostel Subsidy ete.
The Finance Committee approved the steps taken by NIT Agartala towaids enhancement of
Special Compensatory Allowance, Washing Allowance, Cash Handling Allowance, Children
Education Allowance/ Hostel Subsidy ctc. as per Ministry of Finance, Government of India,
Department of Expenditure. Office Memorandum No.3(1)/2008-E.11(B) dated 29 § 2008 &
No.1/1/2014-E-I](B) dated 27.3.2014 and No.A-27012/1/2014-Estt.(Allowance) dated
284.2014 issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and
Pension, Dept. of Personnel & Training. The Finance Committee further recommends to

inform the MHRD on this issue.

Jtem No. 25.11: To consider the Air Journey on LTC/ HTC in respect of all
categorics of Non-Teaching regular employces of NIT Agartala.

All the Members of the Finance Committee looked very positively the proposal and of the
opinion that the proposal certainly has merit. The Finance Committee Suggested ta send a

consolidated proposal scek ing concurrence of MHRD on this matter

litem No. 25.12; Present Status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

The Finance Committee noted the present status of TEQIP-I] Project of NIT Agartala The

Finance Committee praised the TEQIP-II project activity of NIT Agartala and benefits
derived from its project was also noted

Item No. 25,13: To consider the Physical & Financial Statement of the ongoing
construction works/ projects.

The Finance Conunittee noted and approved.

Item No. 25.14: Any other item with permission of the Chair.


--- Page 5 ---
Item No. 25.14.1: Making provision for leave encashment and Superannuation/
Pensionery liabilities.

The Finance Committee approved the proposal for making provision of fund on accrual basis

in accordance with the new Accounting System / Format introduced in educational institutes

under MHRD for the 62 listed numbers of employees of NIT Agartala towards {cave

encashment and superannuation/pensionery liabilities.

Item No. 25.14.2; Managing the Gencral Provident Fund Contribution of the
employees of NIT Agartala.
The Finance Committee approved the proposal and authorized the Director, NIT Agartala to
take appropriate necessary steps and find out suitable mechanism including framing of new
rules in line with other Central Government Funded Educational Institutions for settlement of
the Gencral Provident Pund issues for the employees of NIT Agartala immediately The
Finance Committee further suggested that the investment of fund is to be made in accordance
with the guideline of MHRD, Government of India and suggestion given by the Institute

Investment Commitive to be formed.

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Charr.

‘al de

(Sumanta Chakrabarti) (Prof. Deepak B. Phatak)
Member Seerctary Chairperson
Finance Committee Finance Committee & BOG
& National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Registrar (i/c)
National Institute of Technology, Agartala

~ Sof5
