
--- Page 1 ---
s wae NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

oS West Tripura, Pin: 799046

OB OB OK OK OR OK ok

MINUTES OF THE 2674 MEETING OF THE
FINANCE COMMITTEE
HELD ON SEPTEMBER 24, 2015

he 26" meeting-of the Finance Committee of National Institute of Technology. Agartala
as held on September 24. 2015 at 10:30 am in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House,

ew Delhi.

he following members were present in the meeting:

{) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak : Chairperson, Finance Committee and BoG of
NIT Agartala.
2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya : Member. Director, NIT, Agartala
3) Shri Sanjeev Kumar : Director (NITs), MHRD, Govt of India,
Sharma (Representative of Joint Secretary dealing with

National Institute of Technology, MHRD, Govt.
of India)

+) Shri Rajesh Singh : Director (Finance), MHRD. Govt. of India
(Representative of Financial Advisor, Department
of Higher Education. MHRD, Govt. of India).

5) Dr. John Deb Barma : Member. Asst Professoi. NIT. Agartala.

5) Prof.Richi Prasad Sharma : Member Secretary. Finance Committee and

Registrar. NIT. Agartala.

rof. Deepak B Phatak, Chairperson. Finance Committee of NIT Agartala presided over the
1eeting and welcomed all members of the Finance Committee. The Director apprised the
‘ommittee that the tenures of the Institute's faculty representatives. viz.. of Prof.Richi Prasad

sharma and Dr John DebBarma in the Board of Governors have expired The Senate of the
ay al


--- Page 2 ---
Institute in its last meeting (17"" Senate Mceting) held on 22™ April 2015 nominated them for
a further term. The minutes of the 17" Senate Meeting will be placed during the discussion of
the Board’s Agenda Items 1n this meeting The Chairman Board of Governors Prof Deepak B
Phatak approved the Item No. S/17/3/A of the 17" Senate meeting regarding nomination of
Prof. R.P Sharma and Dr John DebBarma to the Board of Governors of NIT Agartala It was
further decided that Prof R.P Sharma having Civil Engineering background will represent the
Board in Building and Works Committee (BWC) of the Institute and Dr. John Deb Barma
will represent Board in the Finance Committee (FC). The Chairman again welcomed the two
nominated members in the meeting Then incorporating Dr. John Deb Barma as Board's

representative in the FC, the meeting started

At the outset, Prof. Gopal Mugeraya. Director. NIT Agartala. presented a brief account of
the contemporary achievements of the Institute in academic. research, placements and sports
of students, and also on the ongoing important construction works. safety and security
aspects of the campus, etc.He requested the MHRD representatives present in the meeting to
sanction more funds to keep the pace of developments intact and help to develop NIT
Agartala as the top NIT of the North-Eastern part of India. He further highlighted the recent
visit of Hon ble Minister of HRD, Smt Smnti Zubin Iram to the Institute on is" September
2015, her interactions with students and faculties and various related aspects like the
renovation of old hostels,periodical maimtenance of new hostels and improvement of
cleanliness aspects of the hostels and campus in general. Prof. Deepak B  Phatak,
Chairperson, seconded the Director's views and urged sanction of special grant to carry out
the tasks suggested by the Hon’ble minister of HRD. In reply, the MHIRD representatives Mr.
Sanjeev K Sharma, Director NITs, and Mr Rajesh Singh. Director Finance, clarified that due
to total grant constraints for all the NITs, tt may not be possible to sanction special grant for
NIT Agartala However. they suggested that NIT Agartala should plan its construction
activities in such a way that all the ongoing constructions like hostels should be given priority
and the remaining sanctioned grant in plan head could be utilized to carry out new works

after ranking the new proposals as per need of the Institute

The Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussion on the
agenda items. Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya. Dean FW, was invited in the meeting to present the

Agenda Items Then Discussion started on the Agenda points.

fi A.


--- Page 3 ---
:m No. 26.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of 25 Meeting of the Finance
Committee held on January 17, 2015.

ie minutes of the 25" Meeting of the Finance Committee held on January 17, 2015 in the

mference Room of NIT Agartala was circulated to all the members. No comments /views/

ggestions were received from the members of Finance Committee. Hence. the minutes of

t . . .
> 25" Finance Committee Meeting was confirmed without any modification

2m No. 26.2: Action taken on the decision of the 25" Meeting of the Finance
Committee held on January 17, 2015 in the Conference Room of
NIT Agartala.

-The Committee perused the Action Taken report and made the following observations.

(i) In the Agenda Item No 26.2 all the items of 25" Meeting of the Finance
Committee were not chronologically arranged, and in respect of some items
actions taken report were absent It was suggested that hence forth action taken in
respect of all the items are to be serially mentioned in the corresponding Agenda
Item, if no action is necessary in respect of some items then the same have to be
mentioned

(ii) | In respect of item No 25.14 2 the FC in principle agreed and approved the rules
prepared by the institute However, it was suggested that a copy of the Draft Rules
for maintaining GPF subscriptions of the staff members of NIT Agartala may be
forwarded to the Director NITs. MHRD for perusal and suggestions for any
modifications if necessary. Subsequently. the same may be placed in the next

Board Meeting for approval for implementation

em No. 26.3: To consider the Financial Status of the Institute as on August 31,
2015.

he Committee noted the financial status of the Institute as on 31*' August 2015. In view of
‘© expected grants to be received from MHRD, FCdirected NITA to plan its expenditure in

ich a manner that excessive liabilities are noi created

em_ No. 26.4: To consider the Annual Budget of the Institute for the year 2015-
16.
C deliberatedon the Annual Budget of the Institute for the year 2015-16. After discussion at

meth, the Committee suggested that the Institute has to recast the submitted Annual Budget
a“


--- Page 4 ---
in a more realistic and pragmatic way in view of the discussion in item No 26.3 and place the

same in the next BoG meeting.

Item No. 26.5: To consider the Annual Accounts of the Institute for the financial
year 2014-15.

FC perused the Annual Account of the Institute for the financial year 2014-15 and after

discussion approved the same. The committee suggested that hence forth during discussion

on Annual Accounts, the Audit Report and Audit Observations made by the Accountant

General on Annual Accounts of the previous year must be placed along with the Annual

Accounts for final decision. FC asked to put up the compliance report in next meeting with

respect to the observations of the Auditor.

Item No. 26.6: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 33% and 34"

Building & Works Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.

FC observed that as per Statutes of NITs. the minutes of BWC need not be put up in the FC
meeting. Minutes of FC is supposed to be put up before the Board of Governors. Only those
items, which have financial implications and thus, require recommendations of FC. should be
placed as separate agenda items. It was also stated that as per the Statutes 13(1). BWC can
give administrative approval and expenditure sanctions for minor works It was apprised by
the Registrar that the quantum for minor works has not been defined FC recommended that
a threshold of Rs. 25 Lacs may be recommended to the board for approval. Accordingly, FC
only took up those items which require its financial approval The decisions of the FC in

respect of those items are placed beside the tems mentioned below:

    

Item No.

     

Agenda Observations and suggestions of Finance

      

Committee

   

     
  
  
  
    
  

To consider the estimate for; The FC felt thattheproject should aim to
“Construction of Central Lecture | includesmart class rooms with flexible |
Hall Complex having 27 Class capacity Hence, a study of similar
Rooms at NIT Agartala” at a cost of | project undertaken by IITs may be
Rs.70.52.95,723 00 : undertaken and the projectrecast. Same
, may be placed in the next FC meeting as

an agenda item |

     

To consider the total tentative | FC noted that deviation to certain limit is

  

deviation(including extra items. | allowed as per rules Hence, deviations
\


--- Page 5 ---
    
  
   
   

   
   
 

substitute items etc in totality) in , beyond this should be avoided. Matter
the work of Construction of Sports | may be brought in next meeting with i
' Complex at NIT Agartala | quantified deviations

To consider the estimate for the | The proposal should be brought before
work “Bamboo wood flooring and! FC in next meeting with proper
wall cladding in Director’s Chamber | justification

and Board Room in Admin Block-1 | |
|

 

at NIT Agartala” at a cost of

Rs.22.31,068.00 L |

WC item 33.6: Detailed esumates should be placed before FC after looking in to the

estimates from point of view of removing unnecessary items.

tem 33.7: FC mentioned that keeping in mind the paucity of fund. such proposals
deserve to be scrutinized thoroughly. Hence. justification and

estimation should be discussed in next FC meeting.

tem 33.9 : FC mentioned that GFR should be followed in all cases including the

cases which have been approved by the Director

tem 33.10: FC rejected the recommendations of BWC for limited tender It also
asked NIT Agartala to realistically asses the requirement. GFR should

be followed while deciding tender process

tem 33.11: FC recommended the proposal for approval to BoG. However. FC
suggested Director. NITA to avoid deviation by adopting sound

estimation process

[tem 33.12 : FC recommended the proposal for approval of the BoG
{tem 33.13 : FC recommended the proposal for approval of the BoG
Item 33.14 : ; FC recommended the proposal for approval of the BoG.

KE A


--- Page 6 ---
3WC 34'" Meeting:

tem 34.2:

tem 34.3:

tem 34.4:

‘tem 34.5:

(tem34.6 :

ltem 34.7:

[tem 34.8 :

With reference to 32 18 3, tender should be invited for the work in

accordance with GFR

It was apprised by the Registrar NITA that there is no delegation of
powder to BWC/Director for minor works. Hence, approval and
ratification is beyond power of Director and BWC respectively FC
cautioned Director. NITA and BWC. to adhere to their financial limits

while taking decision on work orders. The hst of items should be

‘brought before FC or BWC again. if proposal of delegation of power

upto 25 lacs is approved by BoG.

Kindly see remarks under item 26.6 ATN of BWC item 33.3 and do

needful.

Kindly see remarks under ttem 26 6 ATN of BWC item 33.4 and do
needful.

Please look at the observations under item 33 7 above and do needful

FC noted that allotment of work to ThyssenKrruppis not according to
guidelines of GFR and CVC guidelines FC noted the seriousness of
the case and decided that (a) the work order should be cancelled
immediately and (b) Institute and BWC have exceeded its authority,
first, by calling limited tender and secondly, by approving the proposal
beyond their power. FC pointed out proper procedure as laid out in
GFR should be strictly followed.

Since there is no defined delegation of powe1. approval and ratification
is beyond the scope of Director/BWC in this case. Hence. 1tem should
either be brought to FC or to BWC, if delegation of Rs 25 Lac 1s

approved by the Board as proposed 1n this meeting

Lb by.


--- Page 7 ---
Item 34,9 : Since there is no defined delegation of power. approval and ratification
is beyond the scope of Director/BWC in this case. Hence. item should
either be brought to FC or to BWC. if delegation of Rs. 25 Lac is

approved by ihe Board as proposed in this meeting.

Item34.10 : Since there 1s no defined delegation of power, approval and ratification
is beyond the scope of Director/BWC in this case. Hence. item should
either be brought to FC or to BWC, if delegation of Rs 25 Lac is

approved by the Board as proposed in this meeting
[temi34.12 to 34.21 Items may be placed along with recommendations of the BWC

[tem 34.22 Estimate and justification of the proposal to be presented in the next

FC meeting

[tem34.23 to 34.31 Items may be placed along with recommendations of the BWC

Item No. 26.7: Present Status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.
FC noted the present status and benefits dernvedof TEQIP-I] Project of NIT Agartala.

Item No. 26.8: To consider the Physical & Financial Statement of the ongoing

construction works/ projects.

The Committee perused the status of the ongoing construction works and the expenditure
already incurred as well as the fund requirement for the financial year 2015-16. It was
observed that for the current financial year. projected requirement of fund 1s Rs 83.02 Crores
+ Rs 29.60 Crores (deposited works) = Rs 11262 Crores for the ongoing works/
projects.There is also a fresh proposal of upcoming works amounting Rs 100.11 Crores.
Noting these, FCcommented that the Institute should plan its works within the available and

future grants. r

on

 


--- Page 8 ---
tem No. 26.9: Any other item with permission of the Chair.

tem No. 26.9.1: Financial power of Buildings Works Committee

\s per the Statutes 13(11). BWC can give administrative approval and expenditure sanctions
or minor works. It was apprised by the Registrar that quantum for minoi works has not been
lefined FC recommended that a threshold of Rs 25 Lacs may be recommended to the board
or approval FCsuggested NITA/BWC to follow provisions of GFR and/or CPW'D norms for

‘arrying out the building and works proposals

[he meeting ended with the \ ote of thanks to the Chair

   

“ys

# any, t
yp ft dot ie
iy 7 “ 2 ie

Le GH) Le/) p34

(Prof.Richi Prasad Sharma) (Prof.Deepak B. Phatak)
Member Seerctary Chairperson
Finance Commuttce Finance Committee & BOG
& National Institute of Technology. Agartala
Registrar

National Institute of Technology. Agartala
