
--- Page 1 ---
/
27th - FC/Minutes
December 05, 2015/ NITA
NATTONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTAI.A
West Tripura, Pint T9gO46
*******
MINUTES OF THE 27T^ MEETTT.IG OF THE
FINIRNcE CoMMITTEE
HELD ON DEGEMBER 05, 20 l5
!ltlrllllrrrrl-rlallrrlttllttlllrltlltlltttrlatlltlllltttltl
The 27th meeting of the Finance Committee of National Institute of Technology, Agartala
was held on December 05, 2015 at 10:30 am in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House,
Nerv Delhi.
The following members were present in the meeting:
(l)
Prof. Deepak B. Phatak Chairperson, Finance Committee and BoG of
NIT AgartaIa.
(2)
Prof. Gopal Mug eraya Member, Director, NIT, Agart ala.
(3) Smt. Darshana M Dabral Joint Secret ary &, Financial Advisor, IFD,
MHRD, Govt. of India.
(4)
Shri Sanjeev I(umar Director Q.[ITs), MHRD, Govt. of India,
Sharma (Representative of Joint Secretary dealing with
National Institute of Technology, MHRD, Govt.
of India).
(5)
Dr. John Deb Barma Mernber, Asstt. Professor, NIT, Agart ala.
(6)
Dr. Debasish Bhatt acharya Member Secret*y, Finance Committee and
Registrar (I/C), NIT, Agart aIa.
Prof. Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson, Finance Committee of NIT Agartalapresided over the
meeting and welcomed all members of the Finance Committee. He specially welcomed Smt.
Darshana M. Dabral, JS & FA, Ministry of HRD, for making it convenient to attend the
Finance Committee meeting, inspite of her busy schedule.
The Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussions on the
agenda items.
At the outset, it was suggested that there should be a Committee comprising of some external
experts to scrutinize estimates of the Building and Works. NIT Patna has adopted this
practice. NIT, Agartala may contact NIT Patna in this regard and place the matter in the next
meeting of FC.
Ite{n No. 27.1: confirmation of the Minutes of z6th Meeting of the Finance
Committee held on September 24, 2015.
The minutes of the 26th Meeting of the Finance committee held on september z4,z0l5 in the
Confbrence Room of NIT Transit House, New Delhi, was circulated to all the member"s, The
-'3rygt-**\&€*\1
1of
r 5

--- Page 2 ---
#'l
o i :ii.Y,'^l,T;
"..,.n
minutes were confirmed incorporating the suggestions proposed by Smt. Darshana M Dabtal,
JS & FA, IFD, MHRD and Mr. Sanjeev Sharma, Director Q'{ITs), MHRD.
In this regard, the Finance Committee categorically mentioned that the minutes of a meeting
will be confirmed only in the next meeting after discussion and incorporating suggestions/
modifications/ alternaiions, if any suggested by the Members. After confirmation and
incorporating all suggestions, the confirmed minutes will be circulated among all concerned'
Only draft minutes oi a meeting will be circulated by the Registrar to the Members for their
perusal and suggestions.
Item No. 27.22 Action taken on the decision of the 26th Meeting of the Finance
committee held on September 24,2015 in the conference Room of
NIT Transit House, New Delhi.
The Finance Committee noted the action taken report with the following observations:
It was observed that agenda27.2 contains error in respect of BWC items 34.12 to 34.2I and
34.23 to 34.3I. Minutes of the meeting of 34th BWC did not mention about recommendations
and hence, FC in its 26th meeting said that these should be referred to BWC. Hence, action
taken should be that these items will be placed in next BWC'
(1) The Joint Secretary and Financial Advisor of MHRD, Govt. of India suggested that in
the action taken report in respect of Item No. 34.5 (under ltem No. 27.2, Sl- No- 5,
Ref. item no. 26.0 of Building & Works Committee, the term deviation should be
replaced by "quantified variation" (or CPWD terminology).
In respect of Item No. 34.7 (under ltem No. 27.2, Sl. No. 5, Ref. item no. 26.6) of
Building & Works Committee it was resolved that the Chairperson will prepare a Fact
Finding Report and will place the same in the next Board Meeting. The Chairperson,
BoG and Prof. A. Srinivasan, Member of BoG will meet with the Members of
Building & Works Committee regarding strict compliance of GFR provision and
CVC guidelines.
(2) In respect of Item No. 27.2, Sl. No. 4, Ref. item no. 26.5 of the 27th Finance
Committee meeting regarding Annual Accounts of the Institute for the Financial Year
2014-15, the typographical effors in the action taken report of the annexure to the
Separate Audit Report on the accounts of the National Institute of Technology,
egartata for the yeir 2013-1a (Pg. No. 63 of Agenda of 27th FC) should be corrected
and resubmitted to the Office of the Accountant General (Audit), Tripura.
The Finance Committee further advised the Institute to strictly adhere the suggestions
ofthe conducted audit.
In this respect the Finance Committee suggested the following:
(i) Institute level Audit Cell should to be created immediately.
(ii) Physical verification of the asset inventory must be completed'
(iii)In respect of payment of Statutory Dues certificates to be issued after March of each
year to the effect that there are no outstanding Statutory Dues pending.
2of5

--- Page 3 ---
27'h - FCI Minutes
December A5,2OI5l NITA
The minutes of the 26th Finance Committee Meeting should be modified incorporating the
suggestions and circulated among all concerned, as eonfirmed minutes.
Item No. 27.3: To consider the Financial Status of the Institute as on November
27,2015.
The Finance Committee noted and discussed on financial status of the Institute as on 30-11-
2015 and reiterated that the Institute should plan its expenditure within the expected financial
grants of Rs. 50.00 crores under Non-Plan fund and Rs. 80.00 crores under Plan fund.
Item No" 27.42 To consider the Audit Report on the accounts of the Institute for
the year 2014-15.
The Finance Committee perused the Audit Report of accounts of the Institute for the year
2014-15 alongwith the annexure to the Separate Audit Report on the accounts of the Institute
for the year 2014-15 [attached with the letter of Office of the Accountant General (Audit),
Tripura vide No. ECPA/ SAR-NIT/ 2014-l5l 361, dated: November 09, 20151 and suggested
the following for strict adherence by the Institute.
(i) Audit observation to be answered with priority basis and the same has to be placed
before the Board.
(ii) Compliance Report and the annexure to the SAR must be placed before the next
meeting of the Finance Committee.
Item No. 27.52 To consider estimate for the ('Electromechanical work in the
swimming pool of Sports Complex at NIT Agartalao',, at a cost of
Rs. 4,47,84,869.00.
It was intimated that in one of the earlier meeting of the Board, considering the importance of
the work in respect of overall completion of the Sports Complex of NIT Agartala,
administrative approval was accorded to install electromechanical work in the Swimming
Pool of the Sports Complex of NIT Agartala.
Finance Committee suggested that there is a need for greater scrutiny regarding the
requirement of the system, particularly due to shortage of funds. There should be comparative
study with other such Swimming Pools. The proposal should be placed in next meeting after
reconsideration by BWC.
Item No. 27.6: To consider approval for the work o'Supply, Installation, Testing &
Commissioning of lS(fifteen) lifts in Administrative Building 1 &
2, School of Managemexrt, International Guest House, Academic
Block (ECE Deptt. & DoNER) and Central Library at NIT
Agartala at a cost of Rs.2,86,51,140.00.
Lifts are essentiatly required especially for use by the PWD. Govt. of India has a scheme
related to PwD, for which NIT Agartala should approach to MI{RD, Govt. of India.
'3:ffi1-=**{rt**$-*q[-
3ofli

--- Page 4 ---
2fn - rc/Minutes
December 05, 2015/ NITA
I
Item Ng. 2717: To consider the estimate for the work ,oProviding and fixing
Ornamental False Ceiling and HVAC in Seminar tlalts and
student Activity Room in school of Management Building at NIT
Agartala'o at a cost of Rs. 51,24,796.00.
FC accepted the estimate for consideration by the BoG.
Item No. 27.8: To consider the estimate for 'oconstruction of central Lecture Hall
Complex having 27 Class Rooms at NIT Agartala" at a cost of
Rs.70,52,95,723.00.
The Finance Committee agreed with the necessity of the project of construction of Central
Lecturer Hall in the Institute as the student strength in classes have increased to I 10- 130 per
batch and present class rooms can accommodate only 60 to 70 students. Howevet, ih.
Committee suggested that the proposal should again be placed befbre the Building & Works
Committee with all technical details, the provision of Smart Class Room with flexible
capacity and furniture needed. Then with the approval of the Building & Works Committee,
the proposal may again put to the Finance Committee for consideration. FC also suggested
that NIT Durgapur has estimates for similar type of project using modern furniture- NITA
should contact NIT, Durgapur in this regard.
ltem No. 27.9: To consider the revised Budget of the Institute for the year 2015-
2016.
The Finance Committee approved the revised budget of the Institute for the year 2015-16 for
onward transmission to Ministry of HRD, Govt. of India. However the Finance Committee
suggested that the Institute should plan its expenditure prioritising the projects and within the
available grants.
Item No .27.10: Medical re-imbursement claim of Shri Dilip Kumar Ghosh,
Driver.
R.egarding re-imbursement of Medical bill of Shri Dilip Kumar Ghosh, the Finance
Committee suggested that Shri Ghosh may be requested to apply to the State Government
Medical Board for ex-post facto approval with all relevant papers. The matter may be placed
again before FC after above compliance.
ltem No. 27 .11: Present Status of TEIQIP-il Project of I\IT Agartala.
The Finance Committee noted the present status of TEQIP-II projects of NIT Agartala and
expressed its satisfaction of the achievement, so far made uncler the project.
Item No.2L\L To consider the Physical & Financial Statement of the ongoing
construction works/ proj ects.
The Finance Committee noted the physical and financial statement of the ongoing
Construction Works and reiterated that Institute should prioritize its works and. proj ects and
take them in a phased manner within the provisicrn o1'grantsr
4 of Ii

--- Page 5 ---
zl'n - rc/ Minutes
December 05, 2015/ NITA
Item No. 27.13: To consider the expansion of Campus Wide Networking (Phase
m) of NIT Agartala lbr existing physical infrastructure and
upcoming infrastructure under constructiono'.
The Finance Committee recommended the proposal of the Institute of Campus Wide
Networking (Phase-II! for existing infrastructure and upcorning infrastructure under
construction. In this regard, the FC suggested that estimate shotrld be prepared by a
Committee consisting of the following members:
(a) Prof. Sukumar Nandi, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering,
IIT Guwahati.
(b) Prof. Asok De, Director, NIT Patna.
(c) One member from NIC (National Informatics Centre).
(d) Two members from NIT, Agarlala.
Item No. 27.I4: Any other item with perrnission of the Chair.
Item No .27.L4.1: To consider the Items approved by the IIWC in its 34th meeting
held on August 24,2015 (ltem No.34.8,34.9 & 34.10).
For consideration of the items modified minutes o{'the 34'j' BWC (to be confirmecl in the next
meeting of BWC) containing approval of the items must be placed before the Finance
Committee.
The meeting ended with the vote of thanlis to the Chair.
fi"w
{fffi it-+ tk**=* cr t*at Prtc*
(Dr. Debasish Bhattacharyh$ i (Prof. Deepak B, Phatak)
Member Secretary Clherirperson
Finance Committee Itrinzunce Contruittee & BOG
&, Nirtional Institute ol' J'echnolc)gy, AgarlaIa
Registrar
National Irrstitute of Technology, Agartala
Sofli