
--- Page 1 ---
1 el INDRA LANYZ LN OES LLWW ERE UV EN RB I SS Lae a
Ie, . .
yy West Tripura, Pin: 799046

Minutes of the 28" Meeting of the
Finance Committee

held on July o1, 2016

: 28" meeting of the Finance Committee of National Institute of Technology, Agartala
: held on July 01, 2016 at 10:30 am in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House, New
hi.

: following members were present in the meeting:

) Prof. Deepak B.Phatak =  : Chairperson, Finance Committee and BoG of
NIT Agartala.

) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya : Member, Director, NIT, Agartala.

) Mr. Satpal Sharma : Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India

(Representative of Jomt Secretary & Financial
Advisor, IFD, MHRD, Govt. of India.

) Dr. John Deb Barma : Member, Asstt. Professor, NIT, Agartala.

) Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya : Member Secretary, Finance Committee and
Registrar (I/C), NIT, Agartala.

> Joint Secretary (dealing with NITs), MHRD could not attended the meeting due to prior
upation.

f£, Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson, Finance Committee of NIT Agartala presided over the
eting and welcomed all members of the Finance Committee and thanked them for making
onvenient attending the meeting.

> Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussion on the
nda items.

m No. 28.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of 27 Meeting of the Finance
Committee held on December 05, 2016.

2 Finance Committee perused the minutes of the 27" Finance Committee meeting held on
cember 05, 2015 in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House, New Delhi and
ifirmed the same.

m No. 28.2: Action taken on the decision of the 26 Meeting of the Finance
Committee held on September 24, 2015 in the Conference Room of
NIT Transit House, New Delhi.

e Finance Committee noted the action taken report with the following observation:
a


--- Page 2 ---
(i) Ref. 26.2 (ii) of 26" FC:

Regarding draft rules for maintaining GPF subscription of the staff members of NIT
Agartala:-

It was suggested that the draft GPF rules should be vetted by Legal Experts and the vetted
GPF rules should again be forwarded to the MHRD for their perusal and approval for
implementation.

(ii) Ref. 26.3 of 26" FC:

Regarding Financial Status of the Institute:-

The Registrar apprised the Committee that for completion of ongoing work of the 1500
capacity Boys Hostel, an amount of Rs. 80 crores is necessary in the current financial
year. Also for completion of the deposit works under taken by CP'WD an amount of Rs.
4.80 crores is necessary. In this respect, the committee suggested that for the projects
under CPWD and for 1500 capacity Boys Hostel, the Institute should appeal to the
MHRD for grant of special sanctions in order to complete the projects within the current
financial year. In this regard a letter with detailed requirements may be forwarded to the
MHRD.

om No. 28.3: To consider the Annual Budget of the Institute for the year 2016-
17.

ie Finance Committee perused the Annual Budget of the Institute for the financial year
16-17 which has already been forwarded to the MHRD. During discussion, it was
ggested that while submitting the revised budget, the projects under priority may be
ocated more funds for their early completion. Regarding sanction of special grants for
me project under priority the Committee reiterated its decision as stated in Item No. 28.2

).

2m No. 28.4: To consider the Financial Status of the Institute as on June 09,
2016.

re Registrar presented the financial status of the Institute as on 29" June 2016. It was ;
prised to the Members that under Non-Plan head the unspent balance is Rs. 3.62 crores,
hich is insufficient to meet the requirement of giving one month salary to the employees.
lso under Plan Head there is a marginal balance of Rs. 6.7 crores. The Committee suggested
at the Insitute should immediately write to the MHRD for granting fund under Plan and
on-Plan Head to meet the projected requirement as per budget proposal.

em No. 28.5: Present Status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

uring discussion the Director, NIT Agarala apprised the Committee regarding achievements
1 far made under the Project. It was placed that already 97.19% of the sanctioned amount
ider the Project has been utilized. Under the Project, 288 numbers of students were funded
r attending Conference, Workshop, etc. during 2011-12 to 2015-16. Also, five students
tended Conference in abroad under the TEQIP-II project. Thirteen patents have been filed
ith aegis from the TEQIP-II and nineteen Workshop/ Training programme was conducted
7 the Faculties. Considering the achievement of the project NPIU has further sanctioned Rs.
) crores for NIT Agartala.


--- Page 3 ---
construction works/ projects.

Committee perused the Physical and Financial Statement of the ongoing construction
ks/ projects and noted that under remarks column, for some projects, it has been stated
“work is completed” which is not correct statement. The FC suggested that a redrafted
ment with proper justification in remarks colum is to be submitted in the next meeting.

arding proposed incoming projects as mentioned on page no 42 of the agenda for 28th FC
nitted by the Institute, the Committee recommended only three proposals made in serial
3(Water Treatment Plant), 4 (Upgradation of Internal Roads) and 5(Lifts) of the List of
ming projects, on priority. For sanction of funds in respect of these three projects, the
sctor is requested to write a note to the Chairperson, FC & BoG, NIT Agartala. The
irperson, FC & BoG may then write a letter to MHRD for sanction of funds for these
e incoming projects.

other projects may be taken Up in a phased manner depending upon the availability of
1,

o No. 28.7: Outstanding statutory dues upto 31.03.2016.

Registrar apprised the Committee that there is no statutory outstanding dues of the
itute as on 31.03.2016, the Institute has issued a no dues certificate in this regard. The
omittee expressed their satisfaction in this matter.

n No. 28.8: To consider the proposal of payment of Honorarium to Associate
Deans of the Institute.

Finance Committee noted that the Deputy Secretary, MHRD vide communication F. N.
5/2011-TS.IIL, dated 05-07-2012-has forwarded the recommendations of the third meeting
the Council of NITs, held on 18-11-2011 im respect of “Special Allowances to Dy.
sctor, Deans, Chief Warden and Associate Warden in each NIT at par with the IIT
em”. In this letter, there is no mention regarding any Special Allowances to Registrar (i/c) _~

Associate Deans. In this regard, the FC also noted that NIT, Tiruchirappalli is already
ing Special Allowance to Associate Deans.

vas pointed out that due to the increase in students’ strength and consequent increase in
ilty strength the need for introduction of the posts of Associate Deans was felt by the
‘itute. The Associate Deans are helping the respective Deans for proper and speedy
yosal of the works on different issues. In this respect the proposal of granting special
iwance @ Rs. 2500/- per month to the Associate Deans was recommended by the Finance
mmittee. The Committee also advised to fix the number of Associate Deans considering
actual requirement of the Institute.

m No. 28.9: To consider the proposal of payment of Honorarium to the
Registrar (I/c) of the Institute.

vas mentioned that for shouldering higher responsibility although provision is there as per
‘SR for granting allowances, but the same is not applicable for the autonomous bodies. So
proposal for payment of honorarium to the faculty member officiating Registrar could not
recommended. A ,


--- Page 4 ---
waa, dive weave teeny Wesawe sewass rraeas Joes arsavusvas Va tare NV neesan es

em No. 28.10.1: | To consider work for “Annual maintenance of all buildings of NIT
Agartala including Hostels & Quarters during the year 2016-17”.

he Registrar informed the Committee that in NIT Agartala, some buildings are old and their
novation and maintenance are urgently required. The proposal of “Annual maintenance of
1 buildings of NIT Agartala including Hostels & Quarters during the year 2016-17” was
yproved by the BWC in its 35" meeting with an estimated cost of Rs. 49.80 lakhs. The
nance Committee after discussion recommended the proposal to BoG for consideration.

em No. 28.10.2: © Employees Provident Fund (EPF) facilities to all categories of
contractual employees of National Institute of Technology,
Agartala.

he Committee -discussed-theissue-at length. The Committee recommended that a legal
lvice may be ‘taken in this‘respect and the proposal with the legal observations may be
warded to the Chairperson for consideration.

em No. 28.10.3: To consider the minutes of the 34" and 35™ Building & Works
Committee meeting of held on 24 August 2015 and 10" February
2016 respectively.

he Registrar apprised the Committee that as per Statutes only confirmed minutes of
uilding & Works Committee are to be placed before FC/ BOG. Also as per decision of the
C minutes in its 27" meeting the minutes of 34" BWC was again placed before the 35"
WC with the suggested modification of FC. The modified minutes of 34" BWC was
snfirmed by the 35" BWC held on 10" February 2016. Further, minutes of 35""° BWC was
onfirmed in 36" BWC meeting held on 28" June 2016.

ut agenda items of 28" FC meeting was circulated among the members before 28" June
016. So the confirmed minutes of 34" and 35" BWC was placed before the 28" FC for on
ie table consideration.

he Finance Committee after perusal and discussion on the minutes of 34" and 35" BWC
scommended the said two minutes of BWC to the BoG for approval.

tok

he meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chair.

Stalks horn o.
(Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya) (Prof. Deepak B. Phatak)
Member Secretary, Finance Committee Chairperson
& Registrar Finance Committee & BOG

National Institute of Technology, Agartala National Institute of Technology, Agartala
