
--- Page 1 ---
 

/ ) | Minutes/ 30" BOG/ NITA
/ May 02, 2014

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

 
 

WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799046

OR CIO

Minutes of the 80° Meeting of the
Board of Governors
held on May 02, 2014

At Conference Hall of NIT Agartala

OI ER IES RP RH AS Pd DR ARS Pd Pa Pad Pas rd ht Ea PP al PN PPD OD PDP Oo Pd al PA ND Pd Ph Pd PP Pd Pd PEE

The 30" meeting of the Board of Governors of the National Institute of Technology Agartala
was held on May 02, 2014 at 11:30 am in the Conference Hall of NIT, Agartala.

The following members were present in the meeting:

(1) Prof. P. N. Singh : Chairman, BoG of NIT Agartala.
(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya : Member, Director of NIT, Agartala

(3) Shri Yogendra Tripathi : Member, Joint Secretary & Financial Adviser,
Ministry of Human Resource Development,

Government of India.

(4) Shri Kishor Ambuly : Member, Secretary to the Government of

Tripura, Higher Education Department, Agartala.
(5) Shri Rajesh Singh Solanki : Under Secretary. MHRD, Govt. of India,

(Representative of MHRD, Govt. of India, Dept.
of Higher Education,).

(6) Prof. Nitindra Nath Som : Member, Former Professor of. Jadavpur
University.
(7) Prof. A. Srinivasan : Dean of Faculty Affairs, Indian Institute of
Technology (IIT), Guwahati (nominee of the
Director, IIT Guwahati).

(8) Prof. (Mrs) Uma Bhattacharya Mennber, Professor, Department of Computer
Science & Technology, Bengal Engg. & Science
University (BESU), Shibpur,

 

(9) Prof. Sekhar Datta : Member, Principal, Tripura Institute of
Technology.

(10) Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma : Member, Professor, Civil Engg. Dept.. NIT,
Agartala.

(11) Dr. John Debbarma : Member, Asst. Professor, ME Dept., NIT
Agartala.

(12) Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti : Secretary, Registrar (i/c), NIT, Agartala

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman of the Board of Governors (BoG). NIT, Agartala (NITA), presided
over the meeting.

. : 1ofs5 ee og
Wa Si
eV"

 


--- Page 2 ---
 

 

Minutes/.30" BOG/ NITA —
May 92, 2014

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman, Board of Governors, NIT Agartala, introduced Shri Yogendra
Tripathi, Joint Secretary & Financial Adviser, Ministry of Human Resource Development,
Government of India; and Prof. A. Srinivasan, Dean of Faculty Affairs, Indian Institute of
Technology (IIT), Guwahati (nominee of the Director, IIT Guwahati) to all the Members of the
Board of Governors and welcomed them to the meeting of the Board of Governors of NIT
Agartala.

The Chairman welcomed all other members attending the meeting and requested them to
participate in deliberation on Agenda points.

The Chairman then invited the Director and the Registrar (i/c) to initiate discussions on Agenda
items.

Item No. 30.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of 29" Board of Governors Meeting.

The minutes of the 29" Meeting of the Board of Governors, held on February 27, 2014, were
circulated among the Members. No comments/ views/ suggestions were received from the
Members of BoG. The minutes of 29" Board of Governors meeting was confirmed.

Item No. 30.2: Action taken on the decision of the 29" Board of Governors meeting held
on February 27, 2014 at NIT Agartala.

Actions taken on the decisions of the 29" meeting of the Board of Governors held on February
27, 2014 were noted with the following observations ;

29.14(1): The BoG authorized the Director, NITA to take further action immediately.

29.14(2): The BoG approved the action taken and authorized the Director, NITA to take
any appropriate further action.

29.14(3): The BoG perused and noted the opinion given by the Asst. Solicitor General,
Government of India in regard to alleged false declaration submitted by Dr.
‘Umesh Mishra. The BoG advised to seek further opinion from the Asst. Solicitor
General, Government of India as to whether Dr. Mishra can straightway be
removed from the services of NITA without drawing disciplinary proceeding. If,
the Asst. Solicitor General opines that the disciplinary proceeding is to be drawn,
in that case Director, NITA is authorized to draw the disciplinary proceeding and
take further appropriate action as deemed fit. In case, the Asst. Solicitor General
opines for removal of Dr. Mishra from service without drawing disciplinary
proceeding, the matter to be placed before the next BoG meeting for
consideration and further course of action.

Item No. 39.3: Present Status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

 

Dr. Ardhendu Saha, Coordinator, TEQIP-II Project, presented the present status of TEQIP-H
Project of NIT Agartala and appraised the Board Members about the progress and future needs
of fund from NPIU.

LAS ns .
oyy 4A cafe si2eid

xX a 2 ofS A wand
\ core


--- Page 3 ---
 

Minutes/ 30” BOG/ NITA
May 02, 2014
Item No. 30.4: To consider the ongoing TEQEP-II programme at NIT Agartala.

(i) Fund allocation:
BoG ratified the action taken by the Director, NITA.
(ii) Approval for international travel of Mr. Arnab Paul:

BoG ratified the action taken by the Director, NITA for international travel of Shri Arnab
Paul incurring expenditure of Rs.11,500/- (Rupees eleven thousand five hundred) only.

(iii) Approval for International Travel Plan and Faculty and Staff Development Plan
- under TEQIP-H:

BoG approved the International Travel Plan & Faculty and Staff Development Plan under
TEQIP-II.

Item No. 30.5: Prayer of Dr. Prasun Chakraborti, Associate Professor, Mechanical
Engineering Department, NIT Agartala for consideration of his
appointment to the post of Professor.

The BoG perused the representation of Dr. Prasun Chakraborti, Associate Professor, Mechanical
Engineering Department, NITA and the representation submitted by Dr. Swapan Bhaumik,
Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering Department, NITA on 1* May, 2014. In the.
representations it is mentioned that Dr. Umesh Mishra was appointed as Professor of Civil
Engineering Department at NITA vide Memorandum No. F. NITA — 2(224-Estt)/ 2008/ 2273-
78, dated 25-07-2008. The BoG opined that if somebody was appointed by furnishing false
information, the same can not be extended to others.

After careful consideration, the BoG is of the opinion that Dr. Umesh Mishra possibly furnished
false information and the right course of action is contemplated. Therefore, the request of Dr.
Prasun Chakraborti and Dr. Swapan Bhaumik is not acceded to.

Item No. 30.6: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 24" Finance
Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.

The Board noted and approved the decisions taken in the 24" Finance Committee Meeting held
on May 02, 2014.

Item No. 30.7: Any other item with permission of the Chair.
item No.30.7.1 : To consider for introducing of the Dean (Alumni Affairs &

Institutional Relations) at NIT Agartala.

BoG approved the proposal for creation of another post of Dean with the designation of Dean
(Alumni Affairs & Institutional Relations) with the duties and functions as mentioned in the
proposal. The approval is in accordance with the NIT Statute.

“ on
30f5 _ fine sats

WB% ese"

 

 


--- Page 4 ---
 

 

Minutes/ 30 BOG/ NITA
May 02, 2014

item No. 30.7.2: Consideration and ratification of nomination of Dr. Aloysius Henry
Sequeira, Professor, Department of Humanities Social Science &
Management, NITK Surathka] to the SENATE as an educationist of
repute.

The proposal of nomination of Dr. Aloysius Henry Sequeira, Professor, Department of
Humanities, Social Science & Management, NITK, Surathkal as a Member to the SENATE of
NIT Agartala was considered and ratified.

diem No. 30.7.3: To consider the visit of Banagladesh by Dr. S. K. Das, Associate
Professor, Dept. of Chemistry, NIT Agartala during summer
vacation.

The BoG approved and allowed the private visit of Dr. Saroj Kumar Das, Associate Professor,
Department of Chemistry, NIT Agartala to Bangladesh during the ensuing summer vacation
from 6" June 2014 to 20" June 2014.

ftem No.30.7.4 : Miscenduct and misbehavior by Dr. Ardhendu Saha, Associate
Professor and Shri Abaniswar Chakraborty, Assistant Professor of
NIT Agartala, while on duties as Micro-Observers on Poll Day
(April 07, 2014) with the Election Commission Observer and the
Assistant Returning Officer (SDM), Belonia.

In view of the direction issued by the Election Commission of India for misconduct, misbehavior
and dereliction of duties of Dr. Ardhendu Saha, Associate Professor and Shri Abaniswar
Chakraborty, Assistant Professor, on the poll day on April 07, 2014 while acting as Micro
Observers in connection with General Election to Lok Sabha 2014 of 1-Tnpura West
Parliamentary Constituency with ARO (SDM), Belonia and Expenditure Observer / General

- Observer for South Tripura District respectiv ely, the BoG approved and ratified the action taken

by the Director, NITA, in the form of issuing Show Cause Notice to Dr. Ardhendu Saha,
Associate Professor and Shri Abaniswar Chakraborty, Assistant Professor of NIT Agartala.

The replies of Show-Cause Notices will be sent to the Chief Electoral Officer, Government of
Tripura, for perusal and views.

The BoG also authorized the Director, NITA, to take appropriate follow up action including

disciplinary action as he deems fit on hearing from the Chief Electoral Officer, Government of
Tripura against Dr. Ardhendu Saha, Associate Professor and Shri Abaniswar Chakraborkty,
Assistant Professor.

Item No.30.7.5 : To consider the Health Care Policy and the Amended Medical Rules.

The BoG perused the proposal of the Health Care Committee of NITA and in principle agreed to
approve the proposal with the following observations :

All medical reimbursement will be limited to the CGHS rate.

— 40f5 _—}- tidus ~
oan "C 4 es[2e HY


--- Page 5 ---
 

 

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

Minutes/ 30" BOG/ NITA
May 02, 2014

Agartala Government Medical College and GBP Hospital Tripura will be the only
referring authority to refer the staff of NITA outside the State.

The BoG authorized the Director, NITA, to prepare a list of reputed private
hospitals within and outside the State of Tripura. The list shall be placed before
the next BoG meeting for finalization and empanelment of the reputed Private
Hospitals.

For undertaking treatment in the proposed empanelled hospitals within and
outside the State of Tripura without being referred to by the AGMC & GBP
Hospital, the medical claim reimbursement will not exceed the CGHS rate in any
circumstance and travel expenditure will not be borne by the Institute. In case, the
patient is referred by the AGMC & GBP Hospital outside the State, the medical

-yeimbursement claim shall include TA as per normal Rules. -

OPD service of Specialist Doctors at NITA — Considering the remote location at
about 30 kms distance of NITA from the City, the BoG approved visits of the
Specialist Doctors in the Department of Medicine, Gynecology, Dermatology and
Ophthalmology to the campus as mentioned in the proposal. The fee of the doctor
shall be a maximum up to Rs.1500/- per hour with ceiling limit of two hours per
day for three visits in a week. No other extra cost in terms of travel] etc. will be
borne by NITA for the Specialists.

Out sourcing of Pharmacy services in NITA - In principle, the BoG agreed to the
proposal for outsourcing of pharmacy services for NITA. Detailed modalities
shall be framed on the basis of procedures already adopted by IIT Guwahati. Due
procedures are to be followed for out sourcing Pharmacy services.

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chair.

Ae - : kn - fina, fi
\uose ~D . —tusie “se HFA en Zt f f

(Sumanta Chakrafarti) (Prof. P. N. Singh)
Secretary, Board of Governors

Chairman, Board of Governors

& Registrar (I/C), NIT Agartala NIT Agartala

Sof
