
--- Page 1 ---
 

 

Minutes/ 31st (Special) BOG
NITA / November 07, 2014

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
WEST FRIPURA, PIN: 799046

Minutes of the 31" (Special) Meeting of the
Board of Governors

held on November 07, 2014
in the Conference Room of NIT Agartala

ee Itt ALIAS ROO LEA AAO

 

 

er ariegirtinat

The 31st (Special) meeting of the Board of Governors (BoG) of NIT Agartala was
held on November 07, 2014 (Friday) at 1:30 p.m. in the Conference Room of NIT
Agartala.

The following members were present in the meeting :

(1) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya : Acting Chairperson, BoG & Director, NIT,
Agartala. ,
(2) Shri Ashutosh Jindal : Member, Principal Secretary to the Govt. of
- Tripura, Dept. of Higher Education.
(3) Prof. A. Srinivasan : Member, Professor, Dept. of Physics, IIT
Guwahati (Representative of Director, IIT
Guwahati).
(4) Prof. (Mrs) Uma - Member, Professor, Department of
Bhattacharya Computer Science & Tech., EST, Shibpur.
(5) Dr. R.P. Sharma ~ : Member, Professor, Civil Engineering Dept.,
. NIT Agartala.
(6) Dr. John Debbarma : Member, Assistant Professor, Mechanical

Engineering Dept., NIT Agartala.
(7) Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti : Secretary, Registrar (i/c), NIT, Agartala

Prof. Gopal Mugeraya, the acting Chairperson, Board of Governors (BoG), NIT
Agartala & Director, NIT Agartala, welcomed ali the Members of the BoG, NITA,
present in the 31st (Special) meeting of Board of Governors. The Chairperson
also welcomed Shri Ashutosh Jindal, Principal Secretary to the Government
of Tripura, Education (Higher) Department, who has attended the BoG meeting of
NIT Agartala for the first time and invited for discussion.

Page 1 of 3 —

Mr vy AMES,

 


--- Page 2 ---
 

 

Minutes/ 3ist (Special) BOG
NITA / November 07, 2014

At the outset, the Director, NIT Agartala, informed the meeting that the tenure of
Prof. P.N.Singh, Chairperson of the BoG, NIT Agartala, was over on May 09, 2014
and the NIT Agartala has not yet received any communication from MHRD
regarding selection of the new Chairperson or continuation of Prof. P.N. Singh, as
Chairperson, BoG, NIT Agartala. However, it was confirmed by the MHRD that the
communication regarding appointment of new Chairperson may be sent by MHRD
at any point of time.

The First Statutes of NIT 2009 vide Section 17(15) states that “In the event of the
occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the Chairperson by reason of his death,
resignation or otherwise or in the event of the Chairperson being unable to
discharge his functions owing to absence, iliness or any other cause, the Director
may discharge the functions assigned to the Chairperson under section 16 of the
Act’.

As per provision of the Statute & Act, the Director is discharging the functions of
the Chairperson, BoG, NIT Agartala and presiding over the BoG meeting.

After detailed discussion, the BoG authorized the Director, NITA, to function as
Chairperson in the event of the vacancy arisen and authorized to take decisions as
per provision of the NIT Act, 2007 and NIT Statute 2009 including presiding the
Convocation meeting, conferring Degrees to the Degree Recipients in the 7
Convocation of NIT Agartala, sign the Degree Certificates both as the Director and
Chairperson, BoG (in absence of Chairperson) and any other action as and when
required to take by the Director in the absence of the Chairperson, BoG.

The BoG also resolved that if the formal communication is received from MHRD
before the 7” Convocation, then the Chairperson of the BoG, NITA, wil preside
over the 7" Convocation, sign the Degree Certificates & scroll as the Chairperson
and confer Degrees to the recipients.

The BoG, NIT Agartala, further authorized the Director, NIT Agartala as per
provision of the Act and Statute to discharge the function of the Chairperson, BoG,
NITA, till the appointment of the new Chairperson, BoG, NITA, for smooth
functioning of the NITA.

The acting Chairperson, BoG & Director, NIT Agartala then invited the Registrar
(i/c) to initiate discussion on agenda items.

- Page 2 of 3 at
Wor,

AWW Y

 


--- Page 3 ---
 

Minutes/ 31st (Special) BOG
NITA / November 07, 2014

Item No.31.1: To consider the recommendations of the minutes
of 14” and 15 Senate meeting of NIT Agartala held
on May 09, 2014 and September 26, 2014
respectively.

 

The BoG approved the minutes of the 14" and 15" Senate meeting of the NIT
Agartala held on May 09, 2014 and September 26, 2014 respectively.

item No.31.2: To consider the recommendations of the minutes
of 16 Senate meeting of NIT Agartala held on
November 07, 2014.

The BoG approved the minutes of the 16" Senate meeting of the NIT Agartala

_ held on November 07, 2014.

The meeting ended with vote of thanks to the Chair.

ee

Ww b

» v VLA Lay
(Sumanta Chakrabarti) (Prof. Gépal Mugeraya)
Secretary, Board of Governors _ Acting Chairperson, BoG, NIT
Registrar (i/c), NIT Agartala Agartala & Director, NIT Agartala

Page 3 of 3

 
