
--- Page 1 ---
 

34" BOG/ Minutes
September 24, 2015/ NITA

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 7 99046

*eR SH RH

 

Minutes of the 54" Meeting of the
Board of Go vernors
held onSeptember 24, 2015

At Conference Hall of NIT Transit House, New Delhi

PEt NN ed . OS OPE PLN PEO Pe et

The 34" meeting of the Board of Governors of the National Institute of Technology Agartala was
held on September 24, 201 5at 11.30 am in the Conference Hall of NIT Transit House, New Delhi.

The following members were present in the meeting:

(1) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak : Chairperson, BoG of NIT Agartala

(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya : Member, Director of NIT, Agartala

(3) Shri Sanjeev Kumar Sharma : Director (NITs), MHRD, Govt. of India
(Representative of Special Secretary / Additional
Secretary / Joint Secretary dealing with Technical

Education, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD)

(4) Shri Rajesh Singh : Director (Finance), MHRD, Govt. of India,

(Representative of Financial Advisor, Dept. of
Higher Education, MHRD, Govt. of India).

(5) Prof. A. Srinivasan : Professor, Dept. of Physics, Indian Institute of

Technology (iT), Guwahati (nominee of the
Director, [IT Guwahati).

(6) Prof.(Mrs) Uma Bhattacharya: Member, Professor, Dept. of Computer Science &

Technology, IIEST, Shibpur, West Bengal.

(7)  Prof.Richi Prasad Sharma : Member, Professor, Civil Engg. Dept., NIT,
on Agartala and Registrar .
(8) Dr. John Deb Barma : Member, Asst. Professor, ME Dept., NIT Agartala,

Shri SamarjitBhowmik » Secretaryto the Government of Tripura, Dept. of Higher Education; and Shri
Alok Roy Choudhury, Addl. Chief Engineer, PWD, Government of Tripura, could not attend the

meeting.

Prof. Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson, Board of Governors, NIT Agartala, presided over the meeting

and welcomed all the Members of the Board of Governors.

The Chairperson on recommendation of the 17" Senate Meeting held on 22" April 2015 in its Item
No. $/17/3/A and with the approval of the BoG Members “B_- meeting invited Prof. R, P.

Page 1 of 7


--- Page 2 ---
=
a

34"BOG/M. -
September 24, 20%; N,

Sharma, Professor, Civil Engineering Dept. and Dr. John Deb Barma, Asst. Professor, Mechanical

Engineering Dept. of NIT Agartala in the meeting as nominated faculty representatives to the Board

of Governors (BoG). As decided in 26" F inance Committee meeting Prof. R.P Sharma will represent

the Board in Building and Works Committee (BWC) and Dr. John Deb Barma will represent Board

in Finance Committee (FC).

It was informed to the Board by the Director that Prof R.P Sharma, Prof Civil Engineering
Department of the Institute assumed the additional charge of Registrar with effect from 19"

September 2015 (F/N) after relieving Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti, Deputy Registrar from his

additional charge as Registrar In-charge. The Chairperson thanked and appreciated the previous
Registrar In-charge., NIT Agartala, Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti, for his contributions.

Dean of Faculty Affair of NIT Agartala, Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya was invited in the meeting to
assist the Registrarin presenting the Agenda Items before the Board.

The Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussions on Agenda items.

Item No. 34.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of 33 (Special) Board of Governors
Meeting of NIT Agartala.

The minutes of the 33Meeting of the Board of Governors, held on April 13, 2015 was circulated

among the Members. No comments/views/suggestions were received from the Members of BoG. So,

the minutes of 33Board of Governors meeting was confirmed without any modification.

Item No, 34.2: Action taken on the decision of the 32"? and 33” (Special) Board of
Governors meeting held on January 17, 2015 and April 13, 2015
respectively.

The BoG noted the action taken report on the decisions of the 32" and 33 BoG meetings with the

following observations/ comments.

On Action Taken report of 32" meeting of Board of Governors

 

(i) Inrespect of Audit Report of the Institute for the year 2013-14 (Item No. 32.5 under 34.2), the
Board reiterated the decision taken in the 26" FC meeting in Agenda Item No.26.5 of FC and

requested the Institute to act accordingly.

Page 2 of 7


--- Page 3 ---
 

 

 

(ii)

(iii)

Q)

(1)

34""BOG/ Minutes
September 24, 2015/ NITA

‘Regarding 100% waving of tuition fees for SC/ST students studying in M.Tech, Dual Degree

and PhD programme at NIT Agartala (Item No. 32.11 under 34.2), the Board suggested to act
as per the directives contained in MHRD letter NoF.33-4/2014-TS.II1, dated 16" June, 2015.
Regarding PIRD Complaint against Prof. Probir Kumar Bose, Ex-Director of NIT Agartala
(Item No. 32.16.9 under 34.2) as per decision of the Board, Prof A. Srinivasan, Board Member
in collaboration with Prof. R.P Sharma, Board Member from Institute side, submitted a fact
finding report to the Chairman Board of Governorsfor further necessary action. The Chairman
apprised the Board that he will peruse the report submitted by Prof A. Srinivasanand forward
the same to the MHRD with his observations. |

On Action Taken report of 33"meeting of Board of Governors

Regarding Court Cases filed against NIT Agartala and Union of India at the Hon’ble High
Court of Tripura, the Board directed that these are very important matters and have to be dealt
with utmost care in a time bound. manner, always keeping in touch with the Central
Government Counsel of Learned Advocates at the Hon’ble High Court of Tripura. In this
regard, the Institute shall constitute a Legal Cell for looking after the Court Cases and other

_legal issues pertaining to the Institute so that para wise reply of the filed cases may be sent to

the learned Counsel of Advocates well in time and ensuring timely submission of Counter
Affidavit in the Hon’ble Court.

Further,as observed in FC Agenda, it is reiterated that all the Items in the action taken report
are to be placed serially, and there should not be any missing Item. If, in respect of any Item no

action was deemed necessary, the same must be mentioned.

Item No. 34.3: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 17" Senate meeting of

NIT Agartala held on April 22, 2015.

The BoG approved the recommendations of the minutes of 17" Senate meeting of NIT Agartala.

The Board of Governors accepted the nomination of two faculty members namely, Dr. Richi Prasad

Sharma, Professor and Dr. John DebBarma, Assistant Professor from Senate to BoG of NIT

Agartala.

jE Page 3 of 7

 


--- Page 4 ---
 

34"B0G/ Ma.
September 24, 20%; nN,
BoG nominated Dr. Richi Prasad Sharma, Professor, NITAgartala as representative of the Board in
Building & Works Committee and Dr. John Deb Barma, Assistant Professor, NIT Agartala as its
representative in FC of NIT Agartala.

Item No. 34.4: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 33" and 34" Building
& Works Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.

The Board observed that minutes of the BWC should be placed before it as per the provisions of

statutes. Items which require administrative approval should be placed as separate agenda in the

meeting of the Board, while items which involves financial implications, should be placed through

FC. BoG noted the minutes of 33 and 34” meeting along with the above observations. The Board

also requested Director to convene BWC, FC and BoG frequently so that decisions are taken in time

and agenda does not become too long.

Item No. 34.5: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 26 Finance
Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.
BoG noted that FC has recommended the Chairperson of BoG ask for an explanation from the
Chairman, BWC on item number 34.7 of 34 BWC. It has been decided that the Chairperson will
peruse the same and initiate an enquiry, if required. The Board also observed that the FC has
mentioned that that provisions of GFR, Act, Statutes and relevant instructions of Government of
India should be adhered to strictly. It was also noted that process of requirement determination and
estimate preparation should be more thorough and sound. Hence, NITA should revamp the above
procedures. It is also suggested that the Director should ensure that minutes are prepared properly
henceforth. BoGapproved the recommendations of the minutes of 26" FC meeting of NIT Agartala
held on September 24, 2015. |
Item No. 34.6: To consider the appointments made and job assigned by the Director to
different employees of NIT Agartala for ratification of the Board.
As per Statutes, the Chairperson of BoG may assume the power of the Board in case of emergent
situation. Hence, all such cases which are time bound and hence, cannot wait for meeting of the BoG,
may be got approved by the Chairperson, which can be ratified by the Board in subsequent meeting.
However, BoG perused and ratified the appointments made and job assigned by the Director, NIT
Agartala to different employees of NIT Agartala.

se Page 4 of 7


--- Page 5 ---
 

 

34"B0G/ Minutes
September 24, 2015/ NITA

Item No. 34.7: To consider EPF Contribution for those Contractual staff whose
remuneration is above Rs. 15000.00 per month.

The BoG observed that this proposal should have been routed through FC as it involves financial

implications. However, considering that this is an important item, the Board took up the item for

deliberations.

BoG approved the action taken by the Director, NIT Agartala regarding contribution of EPF amount
as per Employees Provident Fund & Miscellaneous Provision Act, 1952 for the contractual

employees working in NIT Agartala and whose monthly remuneration is up to Rs.15,000/-.

BoG, after detailed discussion on the proposal for allowing deposit of EPF contribution for
contractual employees whose remuneration is above Rs.15,000/- per month, suggested that the
Institute should follow the guidelines of the Ministry of Labour and Employment , Government of
India in this regard.

Item No. 34.8: Present Status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

The Board of Governors noted the present status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

Item No. 34.9: To consider the estimate for “Design, Supply, Construction, Erection,
trial run and commissioning of water treatment plant of capacity 2.0
MLD and construction of .overhead reservoirs, pipe laying work,
construction of pump house including site development and boundary
wall, electrical and mechanical component at NIT Agartala” at a cost of
Rs, 1458.00 lakhs approximately.

BoG has observed that proper justification and estimates maybe placed before FC first.

Item No. 34.10: To consider the estimate for the work “Revamping of lakes, water
harvesting and beautification of water bodies in NIT Agartala” at a cost
of Rs.1500.00 Lakh (Approx).

BoGnoted that NIT Agartala has six lakes which are enriched by rain water. The proposed activity

will help the rain water harvesting and recharging of ground water along with the improving

aesthetic value of the campus. In principle, BoGapproved the proposal. However, keeping in view of
fund position, such activities may be carefully planned. Tentative estimates may be brought before

BoG after due recommendations of FC.

4
bijP — pagesof7 | A

 


--- Page 6 ---
 

~~

--34™B0G/ Min,
September 24, 20157 Al.

Item No. 34.11: To consider the award of work “Up-gradation of the internal main road .
with both side footpath including side drain, electric post, bus stop, sitting
arrangement at a certain interval & conduit from main gate-1 to auxiliary
gate-2 via housing and boys hostel & auxiliary gate-2 to main gate-1] and
auditorium to existing playground (old) at NIT Agartala” at a cost of Rs.
14,01,97,006.48. ,

The Board observed that above item was taken up in 32"! BWC, where the value of estimate was
stated to be Rs 960 lacs and it was decided that the work be given to CPWD. In 33 meeting of
BWC, under ATN, it is mentioned that BWC approved for limited tender process for PSUs. The
estimate of the work has also been increased from Rs.960 lacs to 1400 lacs. The Board was apprised
that work has been awarded to Bridge and Roof Company with the approval of the Director, NITA.
The chairman opined that he would meet the BWC to scrutinize the procedures followed by them,
and steps to be taken, to ensure full compliance with CVC guidelines and GFR.Further, the Board
resolved following:
1. The work order should be immediately cancelled for the work mentioned under this agenda
point.
2. A fact finding inquiry by the Chairperson may be instituted after perusing the explanation from
the Director, NITA, on the above issue.

3. BWC is asked to be more careful about work order procedures in future,

Item No. 34.12: To consider the General Provident Fund Rules for NIT Agartala
Employees.

BoGin principle, agreed and approved the rules prepared by the institute. However it was suggested

that a copy of the Draft Rules for maintaining GPF subscriptions of the staff members of NIT

Agartala may be forwarded to the Director NITs, MHRD- for perusal and suggesting any

modifications if necessary. Then the same may be placed in the next Board Meeting for approval for

implementation.

Item No. 34.13: Allowing of appropriate Grade Pay in pursuant to the restructuring of
Non-Faculty cadre in NITs.

BoG approved the proposal for enhancement of appropriate Grade Pay along with MACP of 6(six)

tL

members of non-faculty staff of NIT Agartala.

Page 6 of 7


--- Page 7 ---
 

 

 

34" B0G/ Minutes
September 24, 2015/ NITA

Item No. 34.14: Any other item with permission of the Chair.

Item No. 34.14.1: Expansion of Campus Wide Networking (Phase IE) of NIT Agartala for
existing physical infrastructure and upcoming infrastructures under
construction.

BoG discussed this issue and in principle approved the proposal of expansion of Campus Wide

Networking (Phase III) of NIT Agartala for existing physical infrastructure and upcoming

infrastructures under construction. BoG suggested to execute the work maintaining all due

procedures and authorize the Director to take appropriate necessary action.

 

Item No. 34.14.2: | Lodging of FIR against Prof Probir Kumar Bose, Ex-Director of NIT

Agartala oe .
The Director has received a letter No.F.1-9/2013 TS.II, dated 24/08/2015 from MHRD asking to ~
lodge an FIR against Prof.(Retd.) Probir Kumar Bose, Ex-Director of NIT Agartala.BoG discussed
this issue and advised that NIT Agartala may seek guidance from MHRD on this matter.

Item No. 34.14.2: Appointment of Officer on Special Duty (OSD) on contract basis at NIT
Agartala |

 

As per the first statute of NIT clause 28 (2), the Board of NIT has the following powers for
appointing personnel on contract: “The Board may appoint any person on contract in the prescribed
scale of pay on terms and conditions applicable to the relevant post for a period not exceeding three
years”. Accordingly the interview for the post of Officer on Special Duty (OSD) on contract basis
was held on 23” September, 2015 at NIT Transit House, New Delhi. The selection committee
appointed by the Chairman, BoG, NIT Agartala interviewed the candidate and recommended the
name of Dr. N.K. Kolefor this post. BoG approved the recommendation of the Selection Committee

for appointment of Officer on Special Duty (OSD) on contract at NIT Agartala.

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chair.

he
Lo Bib.
be i Old |

3.
ichi Prasad Sharma) (Prof. D. B. Phatak)

 
 
  

(Prof.
Secretary Chairperson
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar, NIT Agartala NIT Agartala _

Page 7 of 7
