
--- Page 1 ---
_—
_#& Minutes/ 37" BOG
July 01, 2026/ NITA

 
    

WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799046

HERE EEE

Minutes of the 37° Meeting of the
Board of Governors
held on July 01, 2016

At Conference Hall of NIT Transit House, New Delhi

PE EE LL TILES Dd PEE Dd Gd NE Pd PSE PPTL ESTES ORE OL PEE BE ID OB EES DPE PDEA EPS ES AIS LENS PSPS

The 37" meeting of the Board of Governors of the National Institute of Technology Agartala
was held on July 01, 2016 at 2:00 pm in the Conference Hall of NIT Transit House, New Delhi.

The following members were present in the meeting:

(1) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak : Chairperson, BoG of NIT Agartala
(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya : Member, Director of NIT, Agartala ~
(3) Shn Satpal Sharma : Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India

(Representative of Jomt Secretary & Financial
Advisor, 1FD, MHRD, Govt. of India)

 

(4) Shri Shri Alok Roy Member, Chief Engineer, PWD, Government of
Choudhury Tripura, Agartala,
(5) Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma : Member, Professor, Civil Engg. Dept. NIT,
Agartala.
(6) Dr. John Debbarma ‘ : Member, Asst. Professor, ME Dept., NIT
po Agartala.
: (7) Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya : Secretary, Registrar (i/c), NIT, Agartala

Prof. A. Srinivasan, Professor, Dept. of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati;
Prof. (Mrs) Uma Bhattacharya, Professor, Dept. of Computer Science & Technology, HEST,
Shibpur, West Bengal; the Special Secretary/ Addl. Secretary/ Joint Secretary (TE), MHRD,
Govt. of India and the Secretary to the Government of Tripura, Dept. of Higher Education,
Agartala could not attend the meeting.

Prof. Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson, Board of Governots of NIT, Agartala presided over the

meeting and welcomed all members of the Board of Governors and thanked them for making it
convenient to attend the meeting.

Prof. Gopal Mugaraya, Director of NIT, Agartala, presented in brief, some activities of the

Institute for information of the members present in the meeting. He also presented a brief report
regarding his visit to China along with hon’ble President of India and the BOG noted the report

with appreciation.
| SHER Lx ee | Page 1 of 7 Ale


--- Page 2 ---
 

 

 

Minutes/ 37" BOG
July O1, 2016/ NITA

The Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussions on Agenda
items.

Item No. 37.1: Confirmation of the draft Minutes of 36" Board of Governors
Meeting of NIT Agartala.

The modified minutes of 36" Board of Governors, incorporating the comments of Shri S. P.
Goyal, Joint Secretary (NITs & DL), Department of Higher Education, MHRD, Govt. of India,
were confirmed.

Item No. 37.2: Actions taken on the Decisions of the 34" and 35" BOG meetings of
- NIT, Agartala held on September 24, 2015 and November 14, 2015
respectively.

The actions taken on the decisions of the 34™ and 35" meetings of the Board of Governors, NIT,
Agartala, were noted.

item No. 37.3: Remittance of Annual subscription for the year 2014-15 & 2015-16 to
the Association of Indian Universities, New Dethi.

The BOG noted that NIT systems are as per statutory provisions in NITSER Act and the
payment of Annual Subscriptions to Association of Indian Universities, is not required.

Item No. 37.4: To ratify the decision taken by the Chairperson, BoG regarding
engagement of Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya as Registrar (i/c).

 

The Board ratified the decision already taken by the Chairperson, BoG, to assign the work of
Registrar (i/c) to Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya, Associate Professor, Mathematics Department,
NIT Agartala, till further orders.

The Board noted that a Writ Petition was filed by Shri Arjun Kr. Dey (WP- No. 283 of 2015) in
the High Court of Tripura challenging the recruitment rules and the advertisement issued by NIT
Agartala in the month of May, 2015. The Hon’ble Single Judge of the High Court of Triputa
dismissed the Writ Petition on 31-03-2016. Shri Arjun Kr. Dey again filed a Writ Appeal on 15-
04-2016 before the Division Bench, challenging the order of Hon’ble Single Judge. The Division
Bench, has not granted any stay order against the Judgment of the Hon’ble Single Judge; but
indicated that the appointment of Registrar will be subject to outcome of the Writ Appeal. The
Board felt that since there is no stay order now, NIT Agartala should complete the recruitment
process for appointment of regular Registrar and issue appointment letter, after approval from
its Chairperson, with the condition that appointment will be subject to outcome of the Writ
Appeal in the High Court of Tripura.

The decisions of the Board in para 1 & 2 above are also confirmed for implementation,
since the institute can not function without a Registrar or Registrar (i/c).

Item No, 37.5: ' Appointment of Regular Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) at NIT,
Agartala.

The Board noted that the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Govt. of India vide its
letter F.No.32-19/2015-TS-IIl dated 19" January, 2016 has desired that all NITs may appoint

emratneteg Page 2 of 7 A. SL

 


--- Page 3 ---
 

 

Minutes/ 37" BOG
July 04, 2016/ NITA

regular CVO. The Board felt that NIT, Agartala will take further action in this regard, if other
NITs are appointing full time CVO.

In the mean time, Dr. Paritiosh Bhattacharya, Associate Professor, NIT Agartala, who is already
carrying out the work of Chief Vigilance Officer of NIT Agartala, will continue with his present
assignment, till further orders. He will get support from the Legal Cell of NIT, Agartala, as and
when required.

Item No. 37.6: To consider the proposal of payment of Honorarium to Associate
Deans and Registrar (i/c) of the Institute.

The Board noted that the Deputy Secretary, MHRD vide communication F. N. 33-6/2011-TS.10,
dated 05-07-2012 has forwarded the recommendations of the third meeting of the Council of
NITs, held on 18-11-2011 in respect of “Special Allowances to Dy. Director, Deans, Chief
Warden and Associate Warden in each NIT at par with the IIT system”. In this letter, there is no
mention regarding any Special Allowances to Registrar (i/c) and Associate Deans. In this
regard, the Board also noted that NIT, Tiruchirappalli is already paying Special Allowance to
Registrar (i/c) and Associate Deans.

After discussion, the Board felt that Special Allowance should also be given to Associate Deans
@ Rs. 2500 per month. The Board also felt that emphasis should be given to recruit full time
Registrar and no Special Allowance for Registrar (i/c) should be considered.

Item No. 37.7: To initiate actions for constitution of a Tribunal of Arbitration under
Section 29 of NITSER Act.

The Board deferred the proposal for constitution of Tribunal of Arbitration in respect of NIT,
Agartala.

Item No. 37.8: - General Provident fund Rules for NITA employees.

The Board felt that the draft GPF Rules are required to be vetted by the Govt of India (Finance
and Legal Sections) and NIT, Agartala should send reminder to MHRD for concurrence. This
decision of the Board is also confirmed for implementation, since the issue is pending for
several months and should not wait for confirmation of this decision at the next meeting of
BOG.

Item No. 37.9: Employees Provident Fund (EPF) facilities to all categories of
contractual employees of National Institute of Technology, Agartala.

The Committee discussed the issue at length and felt that the rate of EPF contribution for
employees getting pay above Rs 15000, may be calculated based on monthly consolidated pay of
Rs 15000 only. The Committee recommended that a legal advice may be taken in this respect
and the proposal with the legal observations may be forwarded to the Chairperson for
consideration. This decision of the Board is also confirmed for implementation, since the
issue is pending for several months and should not wait for confirmation of this decision at the
next meeting of BOG.

SES a tres hove te, Page 3 of 7 Sb


--- Page 4 ---
 

Minutes/ 37" BOG
july 01, 2016/ NITA

Item No. 37.10: To consider various issues pertaining to the ongoing TEQIP-II
program at NIT Agartala.

A. Request for permission to organize in-house conferences, trainings and seminars etc.
under TEQIP-I1:

The Board noted the following:

“The Memorandum vide F.NITA.2(265-Estt)/08/13063-70 dated 7 March 2013
had been issued with approval of BOG in its 24" BOG, dated 25" August 2012
and 25" BOG, dated 18" November 2012. As per the memorandum, workshop
organized at NIT Agartala can be sponsored jointly by TEQIP-II fund with other
funding agencies. However, updated TEQIP-II Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) (version June 2015) permitted to organize conferences on R&D
topics/themes, subject area training programmes, pedagogical trainings, seminars,
conferences and Continuing Education Programme (CEP) in addition to
workshop with funds from TEQIP-II. The disbursement of funds from TEQIP-I
for organizing workshop at NITA had already been approved by the BoG.”

The Board permitted to consider the proposal for organizing conferences on R&D
topics/themes, subject area training programmes, pedagogical trainings, seminars,
conferences and Continuing Education Programme (CEP) at NITA, utilizing the fund of
TEQIP-IL.

B. Request for permission to provide honorarium Rs. 5000 to the Invitee Professors from
other NIT’s and Universities/ Institutions for their Lectures:

The Board noted the following information and proposal:

“As per the email from National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU) dated 20"
March 2014, it was informed that TEQIP-II institutions are encouraged to Invitee
Professors from IITs for conducting sessions/ programme in the institute (NITA)
and when invited such Professors (from IIT) be provided with honorarium
(besides TA/DA as applicable) of Rs. 5000 (Rupees five thousand only) per day. -’
Further, NPIU was requested on 6° April 2016 by NITA to clarify on the
provision of honorarium for the Invitee Professors from NITs and other
Universities/ Institutions. In clarification, NPIU informed that the faculty
members/ experts from other institutions may be paid honorarium as per the
institute prevalent rules/ guidelines. If such rules/guidelines are not in place, these
need to be framed and implemented with concurrence of the BoG.”

The BoG decided to allow the payment of Rs. 5000 (Rupees five thousand only) per
day as honorarium (besides TA/DA as applicable) to Invitee Professors from IITs
and also to the Invitee Professors from NITs and other Universities/ Institutions for
their lectures from TEQIP-II Fund.

B. Screening Committee for TEQIP-I International Travel:
The Board noted the following system in TEQIP Revised International Travel
Guidelines, for availing international travel under TEQIP:

o “The project Institution meeting the eligibility criteria shall constitute an internal
scrutiny committee, consisting of senior faculty members. The internal scrutiny

Page 4 of 7 Ake
IB be ttechorte * eo

 

 


--- Page 5 ---
 

Minutes/ 37" BOG
July 01 2016/ NITA

committee shall scrutinize the received proposal in a prescribed format and
submit the report to the Institutional TEQIP Unit, along with the proposals.

o The TEQIP Unit will scrutinize the received proposal as per the checklist and
submit the proposal with its observations and remarks of internal scrutiny
committee to the “Screening Committee” (A Screening Committee be
constituted by the BOG of the institute consisting of senior external experts)

o The Screening Committee shall evaluate the proposal as per the criteria and
advice the Director of the institution. If deemed necessary, the screening
committee may seek opinion from external theme experts before arriving at a
conclusion.

o The Director, NIT Agartala shall forward the proposal to the BOG with its
remarks along with the remarks of the Screening Committee.

© The BoG will accord approval for the proposal on the basis of report of the
Screening Committee and the recommendation of the Director of the Institute.

o The Institute will send the proposal with remarks of the BoG to the NPIU for
further processing. NPIU shall forward the proposal to the MHRD for the
approval. The decision of the MHRD will be communicated to the concerned CFI
by NPIU.”

The BOG authorised the Director of the Institute to constitute “Screening
Committee (with external Experts)” for scrutinizing TEQIP-I International Travel
proposals. The BOG also felt that the process mentioned above is not simple and time
consuming. The TEQIP Unit of NIT, Agartala may write a letter to the MHRD indicating
the feelings of the members of BOG regarding the lengthy process, with a request to
simplify the same.

Item No. 37.11: To receive information regarding status of up-gradation of the
internal main road with both side footpath including side drain,
electric post, bus stop, sitting arrangement at a certain interval &
conduit from main gate-1 to auxiliary gate-2 via housing and boys
hostel & auxiliary gate-2 to main gate-1 and auditorium to existing
play ground (old) at NIT, Agartala and to ratify the decision taken by
the Chairperson, BOG.

The BOG noted the following information/status and also ratified the decision of Chairman,
BoG for administrative approval already accorded, for open tendering process:

“The existing roads are without footpath (single lane standard) having 3.75 m average
width and the condition of the roads are not good to cater to the present traffic volume.
The roads connecting the NITA Administrative Building, Auditorium, Workshop, CRF
Building, Hospital, all the Boy’s and Girl’s Hostel, Guest House, Director’s Bungalow,
Market, Sports Complex, Play Ground, Quarters etc. need up-gradation. Once the roads
are widened from 3.75 m width (existing) to 7.00 m width (double lane standard) with
footpath, the traffic volume will be well accommodated in future. As per guidance by the
Chairman, BOG, to the members of BWC in a meeting held by him on 08-01-2016 at
NIT, Agartala, the BWC at its 35" meeting held on 10-02-2016, suggested to start the
work on priority, based on “Open Tendering” as per “Three Bid System/ Three Envelope
System”, in accordance with GFR and CPWD process. After BWC decision,
administrative approval was sought from the Chairman, BOG and the approval for “Open
Tendering Process” was accorded by the Chairman, BOG on 29.04.2016, considering

sora atinolepe | Page 5 of 7 Ae


--- Page 6 ---
 

Minutes/ 37" BOG
July 01, 2016/ NITA

But agenda items of 28" FC meeting was circulated among the members before 28" June 2016.
So the confirmed minutes of 34" and 35" BWC was placed before the 37" Board of Governors
meeting, as additional agenda for consideration and approval.

The Board accepted the recommendations of 34" and 35" BWC meetings.

Item No.37.12.4: To consider the fees to be paid by the students taking admission
starting From the academic year 2016-17.

The BOG noted that the MHRD, Govt. of India, vide its letter No. 33-4/2014-TS.IN dated 24"
June, 2016 has conveyed the decision of NITSER Council for revision of Tuition Fee from Rs
70000 to Rs 125000 per student per annum for the students taking admission starting from
the academic year 2016-17 from the Academic Year 2016-17, subject to some concessions /
rebates to socially and economically backward students, in accordance with the provisions under
Section 32(2) (b) of NITSER Act and First Statutes of NITs under Section 37(i). The BOG also
noted that the students currently studying / got admitted prior to academic session 2016-17
would continue to pay the existing rates. Although, it is not mentioned in the MHRD letter that
this Fee enhancement is only for B.Tech. students, the BOG observed that the said
communication from the MHRD is applicable in respect of B.Tech. students only.

The BOG, decided to keep the existing Fees for all other programmes, except for B.Tech.

This decision of the Board is also confirmed for implementation, since the process of fee
collection can not be paused for confirmation of this decision at the next meeting of BOG.

Bide

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chair.

dst he Wrechos

, A 24-23 -IZ
(Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya) - (Prof. Deepak B. Phatak) _
Secretary Chairperson
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar (i/c}, NIT Agartala NIT Agartala

Page 7 of 7

 
