
--- Page 1 ---
38°° BOG/ Minutes
November 11, 2016/ NITA

NA'PIGNAL EINSTEPUPTE OF PECHNGOLOGY AGARPALA
WEST TRIPERA, PIN: 799046

 

3K RK kok

Minutes of the 38" Meeting of the
Board of Governors
held on November 11, 2016

At Conference Hall of International Guest House, NIT Agartala, Tripura

The 38” meeting of-the Board of Governors of the National Institute of Technology Agartala
was held on November 11, 2016 at 02.30 pm in the Conference Hall of International Guest
House, NIT Agartala, Tripura.

The following members were present in the meeting:

(1) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak : Chairperson, BoG of NIT Agartala.

(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya : Member, Director of NIT, Agartala.

(3) Shri Sushil Kumar : Principal Secretary to the Government of Tripura,
Dept. of Higher Education, Schoo] Education etc.,
Agartala, Tripura.

(4) Shri K. Rajan : Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India

(Representative of Special Secretary / Additional
Secretary / Joint Secretary dealing with Technical
Education, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD).

(5) Shri Alok Roy Choudhury : Member, Addi. Chief Engineer, PWD, |
Government of Tripura, Agartala. |
(6) Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma : Member, Professor, Civil Engg. Dept., NIT,
Agartala. ‘
(7) Dr. John Deb Barma - : Member, Asst. Professor, ME Dept., NIT
Agartala. _
(8) Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya : Secretary, BoG, Registrar (i/c), NIT Agartala.

The Financial Advisor, Department of Higher Education, MHRD, Govt. of India; Prof.
Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay, Director, Indian Statistical Institute, Machine Intelligence Unit,
Kolkata; Prof. Vijayalakshmi Ravindranath, Chairperson, Centre for Neuroscience, Indian
Institute of Science, Bangalore and Prof. A. Srinivasan, Professor, Dept. of Physics, Indian
Institute of Technology (JIT), Guwahati (nominee of the Director, IIT Guwahati) could not
attend the meeting.

Prof. Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson, Board of Governors, NIT Agartala, presided over the
meeting and welcomed all the Members of the Board of Governors. He specially thanked the
two new faces, Shri Sushil Kumar, Principal Secretary to the Govt. of Tripura, Dept. of Higher
Education & Shri K. Rayan, Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India and requested their support
for the development of the Institute.

Le . Page 1 of 3 sh.

 


--- Page 2 ---
38° BOG/ Minutes
November 14. 2C16/ NITA

Vhe Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussions on Agenda
items.

The Director, Prof. Gopal Mugeraya, initiated the discussion. He informed the members that this
is a special meeting of BOG, where only the issues pertaining to the 9" Convocation Ceremony
of the Institute to be solemnized on 12” November 2016 are being considered. Here the minutes
of previous Senate meetings viz. 20" and 21° meeting respectively held on 31" March 2016 and
_ 23"? September 2016 together with the minutes of 22™ Senate meeting held on today ie. 11"
November 2016 are placed for discussion.

The Director then requested the Registrar to initiate discussion of Agenda points.

Item No. 38.1: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 20" Senate meeting of
NIT Agartala held on 31° March 2016.

The minutes of 20" Senate meeting of NIT Agartala held on 31° March 2016, was placed first
for discussion. During discussion the MHRD representative Mr. K. Rajan, pointed out that the
Item Nos. 8/20/15, $/20/17 and S/20/18 of 20" Senate Meeting involves financial matters, so it
is better to route these items through FC. The BoG members accepted the proposal and except
these three items the minutes of the 20" Senate meeting was approved and confirmed.

Item No. 38.2: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 21° Senate meeting of
NIT Agartala held on 23™ September 2016.

During discussion considering the research atmosphere prevailing in the Institute on the Item
No. $/21/03 regarding consideration and ratification of result of Ph. D. in Engineering, Science
and Humanities & Social Science for awarding Ph. D. Degree in the 9" Convocation, the
Chairman proposed that the Institute may hence forth should award gold medal for the best
Ph.D. thesis submitted by Scholars of the Institute to give impetus to Scholars and Guides for
quality research work.

In this respect the Govt. of Tripura representative Shri Sushil Kumar suggested that one more
gold medal may be instituted for innovative research of high standard performed by passed. out
students and works published in reputed journals. The Chairperson, BoG further added that the
medal may be awarded jointly by NIT Agartala Alumni and the Institute. Both the proposals
may be placed to next Senate for consideration.

Regarding the results of the passed out students the members expressed their satisfaction.

While discussing item No. $/21/02/A, the Director pointed out that due to extreme urgent work
pressure, Prof. Ashoke Mishra, former Director IIT Bombay, could not accept the Institute’s
proposal of adorning the 9" Convocation as Chief Guest. Then the Institute requested the
eminent educationist Prof. Sandeep Sancheti, President, Manipal University Jaipur to grace the
9" Convocation as Chief Guest. Prof. Sancheti has kindly consented for the same. The Director
requested BoG to approve this Change of the minutes of 21" Senate meeting against Agenda
Item No. 8/21/02/A.

After discussion the minutes of the 21 Senate meeting of NIT Agartala, held on 23" September

2016 was approved and confirmed. ke
Page 2 of 3 .
Teste trenab ort . Aste


--- Page 3 ---
38"" BOG/ Minutes
November 11, 2016/ NITA

Item No. 38.3: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 22" Senate meeting of
NIT Agartala held on 11" November 2016.

The minutes of 22"! Senate meeting of NIT Agartala was held on 11™ November 2016, which
was placed before the Board of Governors meeting on table was approved and confirmed. In the
ensuing 9"" Convocation of NIT Agartala, to be held on 12" November 2016, the Institute with
the recommendation of the Senate proposed award of Ph.D. Degrees to 27 nos. eligible Scholars,
B. Tech. degree to 646 nos., M. Tech degree to 243 nos., MCA degree to 32 nos., M. Sc. degree
to 20 nos. of successful students. Also the Institute will award Gold Medals to the Institute
topper of UG & PG programmes and Gold Plated Silver medals to other Branch toppers as each
UG & PG programmes as detailed in Agenda Item Nos. 8/21/03, $/21/04 and 8/22/02.

As per recommendation of 22™ Senate meeting under Item No. 8/22/02, the Board of Governors
decided and confirmed to confer degree of Doctor.of Engineering (Honoris Causa) to Shri
Tathagata Roy for his outstanding contribution as Eminent Professor in the field of Engineering
and Education in the 9" Convocation of this Institute.

The Board of Governors also approved and confirmed the recommendation of 22™ Senate
meeting under Item No. S/22/02, to confer degree of Doctor of Letters (Honoris Causa) to
Padma Shri Nana Gajanan Patekar for his outstanding contribution in the field of Arts,
Filmography and Societal commitment in the 9" Convocation of this Institute.

Item No. 38.4: Any other item with permission of the Chair.

The Director informed the Board that the Institute is going to sign three MoUs with ONGC
Tripura Asset, NEPCO and the eminent private organization i-Built approved by Confederation
of Indian Industries (CII) for mutual benefit in presence of the President of India on the occasion
of the meet of Chairpersons and Directors of IITs and NITs, scheduled to be held on 16" ~17"

November 2016, at Rashtrapati Bhavan, New Delhi.

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chair.

—rhe “tachars) ~
(Dr. D. Bhattacharya (Prof. D. B. Phatak)
Secretary Chairperson
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar (i/c), NIT Agartala NIT Agartala

Page 3 of 3
