
--- Page 1 ---
 

39" BOG Meeting/ Minutes -
March 24, 2017/ NITA

AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799046
Minutes of the 398 Meeting of the
Board of Governors
held on March 24, 2017

 

At International Guest House, NIT Agartala

 

- The 39” meeting of the Board of Governor of the NIT, Agartala, was held on March 24,
2017 at 12:30 pm in the meeting room of International Guest House at NIT, Agartala. ~

The following members were present in the meeting:

(1) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak : Chairperson, BoG of NIT Agartala
' (2) ~~ Prof. Gopal Mugeraya : Director of NIT, Agartala
(3) Shri Sushil Kumar : Principal Secretary to the Goverment of

Tripura, Dept. of Higher Education, ‘School
Education etc., Agartala, Tripura.
(4). Shri K. Rajan + Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India
- (Representative of Special Secretary / Additional
Secretary / Joint Secretary dealing with
Technical Education, Dept. of Higher Education,

“MHRD).
(5) Shri Shri Alok Roy - 3 Chief Engineer, PWD, Government of Tripura,
Choudhury Agartala.
(6) Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma +. Professor, Civil Enge. Dept. NIT, Agartala. _
(7)- Dr. John Debbarma _ : Asst. Professor, ME Dept., NIT Agartala,
(8) Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya : Secretary, Registrar (i/c), NIT, Agartala

Prof. (Dr) D.B.Pathak, Chairperson Board of Governor of NIT, Agartala, presided over the
meeting and welcomed all the members present, for making it convenient to attend the
meeting. The Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate the
discussions on agenda items.

The Final Minutes were confirmed by the Board in its 40" Meeting held on June 28, 2017 in
_ the. Conference Room, Tripura Bhawan, New Delhi, in which the following members were

present: .
(1) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak Chairperson, BoG of NIT Agartala
(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraye : Director of NIT, Agartala .
(3) Shri A.K. Singh - ‘Under Secretary (TS-ILD, MHRD, Govt. of India

OOK ee | . Bir


--- Page 2 ---
 

(4)

(5)

(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)

Shri D. K. Singh

Shri Alok Roy Choudhury

Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma
Dr. John Debbarma
Prof. Perumal! Alagarsamy

‘Dr. Govind Bhargava

39" BOG Meeting/ Minutes
March 24, 2017/ NITA.

Under Secretary (IFD), MHRD, Govt. of India
(Representative of FA, Dept. of Higher
Education, MHRD).

: . Addl. Chief Engineer, PWD, Government of

Tripura, Agartala. .
Professor, Civil Engg. Dept., NIT, Agartala,
Asst. Professor, ME Dept., NIT Agartala.
Nominee of Director, IT, Guwahati

: . Secretary, Registrar, NIT, Agartala

The Confirmed Minutes are given below:

Item No. 39.1:

The Director made a brief
respect of NIT, Agartala and

The Director specially requested the memb
the last 3’ years, has made considerable
publication of papers, fi
academic standards. He
year 2016, NIT, Agartal
among all NITs.

Item No. 39.2:

issues.

Presentation by the Director on Academic and Administrative

presentation on some academic and administrative issues in
the BOG received the information.

ers of the BOG to note that NIT, Agartala, during
Progress On academic matters with improvement for
ling of patents, revision of syllabi and overall improvements of
also specifically mentioned that as per National ranking during the
a, is No. 51 among 100 best Institutions in the Country and: No. 13

Confirmation of the draft Minutes of 37" Board of Governors
_ Meeting of NIT Agartala.

The BOG confirmed the Minutes of 37" meeting of BOG held on July: 1, 2016.

Actions taken on the Decisions of the 36" and 38" BOG meetings
of NIT, Agartala held on December 05, 2015 and November 11,
2016 respectively. -

The BOG noted various actions taken by NIT, Agartala.

Item No. 39.4:

The Board noted that the Writ Petition
Division Bench in the High Court of T

To consider the recommendations of Selection Committee for

appointment of Registrar at NIT, Agartala.

(WP) in Single Bench and Writ Appeal (WA) in
ripura, filed by one candidate who applied for the

post of Registrar, were both dismissed by the High Court of Tripura, accepting the
Advertisement for Recruitment of Registrar and Method of Recruitment mentioned in

3

“Ne .

 


--- Page 3 ---
 

39" BOG Meeting/ Minutes .
March 24, 2017/ NITA

Advertisement/ relevant papers of Recruitment Process. In the observations of Court Order,

the Court accepted the policy decision taken by NITSER Council in exercise of absolute
“power of the Council under Section 32 (2) (b) of NITSER Act.

Accordingly, after opening sealed envelope, the BOG accepted the recommendations of

- Selection Committee for appointment of Sri Govind Bhargava, as a full time Registrar on
‘regular basis as per method of recruitment (which was communicated to NITA by the

MBHRD, Govt. of India) mentioned in the advertisement, based on statutory policy decision
of NITSER Council in exercise of absolute power under Section 32 (2) (b) of NITSER Act.
The appointment will be for a period of 5. years or up to the age of 62 years whichever is

earlier, from the date of joining. All details regarding service benefits and terms & conditions

of appointment will be decided by the Director and to be mentioned in the appointment letter
to be issued by the Director. It was also decided that “If Sri Bhargava does not join, a fresh
advertisement will be issued for recruitment of new Registrar.”

The minutes were also confirmed by the Board for implementation with immediate

effect from the date of signing the minutes by Registrar (i/c) with approval of Director.

Item No. 39.5: To. consider the, recommendations _of Selection Committee for
recruitment of Teaching staff under Special Recruitment Drive for
persons with disabilities (PWDs).

The BOG accepted the recommendation of ‘Selection Committee and noted that’ one

candidate who appeared for interview was not found suitable for selection and appointment.

A fresh advertisement will be. issued again.

Item No. 39.6: ok To consider jegularization of absenting period of Mr. Swarup

_ Paul, Assistant Professor of Production Engineering Department,
NIT Agartala for the period from 91-08- 2014 to 23-09-2015 (i.e. 1
“year 1 month 23 days).

The BOG decided that a letter will be ‘issued by the o Registrar to Mr. Swarup Paul for getting

‘one unconditional written apology and regret letter, not to commit such indiscipline in future.
After getting the letter, the matter will be again placed to the Board at its next BOG meeting
for regularization of ‘the period of absence of Mr. Paul from 01-08- 2014 to 23-09-2015 by
sanctioning study leave. . ,

Item No. 39.7: To conde paypconion of past service rendered by Mr. R. K.

 

Bhogendra Meitei, Asstt. Professor, Dept: of Mech. Engg, NIT,
Agartala, -

The Board noted that Mr. R. XK. ‘Bhogendra Meitei accepted the terms & conditions of his
‘appointment at the time of his j joining NITA and it is not feasible at this stage to give pay

protection of past service. _ Bo oo
| 72/6] fe. |


--- Page 4 ---
 

39" BOG Meeting/ Minutes -
March 24, 2017/ NITA

Item No. 39.11: . To consider the proposal of payment of Honorarium/ Special
Allowance to the Registrar (in-charge) of the Institute.

The Board approved the proposal for payment of Special Allowance to any faculty member
who was given additional charge to work as Registrar (i/c) in addition to his/her normal

- academic duties,.@ Rs. 3500/- per month w.e.f. 05-07-2012. Such Special Allowance to any
‘faculty member will also be given in future who is given additional charge to work as

Registrar (i/c). The Board also delegated power to the Director, NITA to pay such
relevant Special Allowance to any other faculty member who is required to carry out
additional non-academic work every month for certain period, in addition to his/her
normal academic duties.

‘Ttem No. 39.12: To consider re-imbursement of visa fees, Travel Insurance and

health insurance charges for visiting abroad.
The relevant Centra! Govt. Rules/ System to be followed.

Item No. 39.13: © To consider the work for placing the order for execution of the
work of “Up-gradation of the interna! main road with both side
footpath including side drain, electric post, bus stop, sitting
arrangement at a certain interval & conduit from main gate-I to
auxiliary gate-2 via housing and boys hostel & auxiliary gate-2 to
main gate-1 and auditorium to existing play ground (old) at NIT
Agartala” at a tender value of Rs. 12, 16, 37, 422, Estimated cost of

- the work being Rs. 9 29,18,776. os .

The Board noted that as per requirement of GFR/ CPWD system and CVC Guidelines, Open

Tender Process was adopted.Adequate no. of Quotations/Bids (Technical and Financial

Bids) were received and the same were scrutinized by Evaluation Committee. The

Contractor (Shri Jahar Sur Choudhury) was the lowest bidder. The rates quoted by the lowest

bidder were scrutinized by Tender Opening and Evaluation Committee with justification of

rates and the same was vetted and accepted by the Statutory BWC as per provision of

Statutes 13(5) for the acceptance of the tender. The recommendation of BWC were placed to

the Statutory. Finance Committee. Considering the GFR/CP WD System/CVC guidelines have

been followed, the Board accepted the recommendation of BWC and Finance Committee for
placing the work order to the lowest bidder (Contractor- Shri Jahar Sur Choudhury) and also

confirmed the Minutes for implementation. ,

Item No. 39.14: To consider the ‘proposal for consideration of issuance of No-

. Objection Certificate in favour of the Association of Non-Teaching
Staff of NIT Agartala. .

The Board 1 noted that the bye- laws included both regular « & + contractual employees.in one

, Association and, therefore, the © proposal | is not accepted at this Stage.

( Beeeeoe | ! =

FAl6/ Iz

 


--- Page 5 ---
39" BOG Meeting/ Minutes
March 24, 2017/ NITA

Item No. 39.15: To consider for procurement of SWEBOK based ¢-learning and
Training Content from IEEE Computer Society provide for a

detailed supplementary learning for PG, UG and research fellow/
faculty.

 

The Board felt that the software may not be very effective and decided to get feedback from
other Institutions mentioned below: 7

NITK Surathkal.

VNIT Nagpur.

‘NIT Patna. .

NIT Goa.

NIT Nagaland.

NIT Arunachal Pradesh.

NIT Manipur.

Delhi Technological University.

RV College of En gineering.
10. PES University.
11. Defence Institute of Advanced Technology.

+12. Gujrat Technological University.

CON AU RN

na

It was also felt hecessary to know financial liability after 3 years. The proposal is not
accepted at its present stage. ; .

Item No. 39,16: To consider the Audit Report on the Accounts of the Institute for
the year 2015-16. ; :

The Board accepted the decision of Statutory Finance Committee and confirmed minutes for

_ implementation.

'. Item No. 39.17; ‘To consider the Annual Report for the year 2015-16.

The Board accepted the Annual Report and approved the same:

Item No. 39.18: Present Status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

The Board noted the status.

Item No. 39.19: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 28" Finance
Committee meeting of NIT Agartala,

The Board approved the recommendations of 28” Finance Committee meeting ‘and
confirmed minutes for implementation, wherever required

2EEl fp we


--- Page 6 ---
 

39° BOG Meeting/ Minutes -
March 24, 2017/ NITA

Item No, 39.20: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 36" and 37"
Building & Works Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.

The Board accepted the recommendations of BWC and Finance Committee.

Item No. 39.21: To consider the procurement proposal for “modernizing of NIT
Agartala, Revised Procurement Committee and procurement
process etc.

The Board accepted TEQIP related proposal as per rule.

| Item No. 39.22: TDS liabilities of Rs. 1,52,92,993 for payment made to Tripura

Housing and Construction Board,-Agartala during the financial
year 2007-08 to 2010-11.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of Finance Committee and confirmed

minutes for implementation.

The Board also decided that Tripura Housing and Construction Board may be pursued to
refund the TDS liability together with interest accrued, to NIT, Agartala

Item No. 39.23: Any other item with permission of the Chair.

Item N No. 39.23.1: To adopt and approve the manual of NIT, Agartala Medical
Attendant Rules in line with CS (MA) Rules. .*

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of Finance Committee,

Item No. 39.232: To consider and adopt Group Health Insurance Policy for all
_ +. categories of employees and their family members of NIT,
Agartala.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendation of Finance Committee with the
condition that there should not be any financial lability on the part of NITA/ MHRD.

Item No. 39.23.3: | To consider approval for the work of “Supply, installation, testing
& commissioning of 14 (fourteen) lifts in Administrative Building
1 & 2, School of Management, International Guest House,
Academie Block (ECE Deptt. & DoNER) and Central Library at
NIT Agartala” ata cost of RS, 4,17,13,490.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of Finance Committee and confirmed
minutes for. implementation, in accordance with GFR provisions, CVC "guidelines and GO]
instructions, to accord the work to CPWD as deposit work.

Feceeeee Ase
| / 22/E/)>

7


--- Page 7 ---
 

39" BOG Meeting/ Minutes
March 24, 2017/ NITA

Item No. 39.23.4: | To consider the proposal for procurement of new machines and
tools for the new central workshop under Mechanical Engineering
Department. .

 

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of Finance Committee and felt that
the provisions of GFR,;;CVC guidelines and GOT instructions should be followed. —

Item No. 39.23.5: To consider the proposal for procurement of an Inverted
Metallurgical Microscope with Image Analysis system.

 

The Board accepted the decision and recommendation of Finance Committee and felt that the

provisions of GFR, CVC guidelines and GO] instructions should be followed.

Item No.:39.23.6: | Appraisal to the Board regarding signing of MoU with IIT
Madras for research & academic collaboration. -

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of Finance Committee and confirmed
minutes for implementation, as applicable. a

Item No. 39.23.7; To consider the proposal of signing MoU with National
Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERJ), Nagpur.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of Finance Committee and confirmed
minutes for implementation, as applicable.

Item No. 39.23.8: To consider formation of Selection Committee for Start-up
programme of Govt. of India and selected start-up proposals.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of Finance Committee and confirmed
minutes for implementation.

The Board also felt that a Committee may be formed to note the Status and the benefits which

oi

shall be achieved in respect of the start-ups.

Item No. 39.23.9: To consider the work of Electromechanical work in the swimming
pool of sports complex at NIT Agartala.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of Finance Committee and confirmed
minutes for implementation and felt that the provisions of GFR, CVC guidelines and GOI
instructions should be followed before awarding the work. ,

Item No. 39.23.10: To consider appointment of Prof. Swapan Bhattacharya,

7 Professor, Jadavpur University as an Adjunct Faculty member in
the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, NIT
Agartala. .

The Board decided that Prof. Swapan Bhattacharya may be appointed as adjunct faculty with
financial benefits, salary, pay etc and other terms and conditions of appointment to be

CB Cee OCf - 8 AL:

 


--- Page 8 ---
 

ts

_ 39" BOG Meeting/ Minutes -
March 24, 2017/ NITA

decided by the Director, for a period of 3 years from the date of joining in the department of
Computer Science & Engineering of NIT, Agartala, subject to the condition that the
MHRD Govt. of India has no objection for his appointment and accordingly the matter
may be referred to MHRD and till such time the matter may be deferred.

~ Item No. 39.23.11: To consider three agenda items of the 28" Senate meeting of NIT

Agartala.

The minutes of the 28” Senate meeting was approved by the Board in its 38" BOG meeting
held on November 11, 2016 against item no. 38.1. But regarding three items viz. $/20/15,
S$/20/17 and $/20/18, the Board suggested that the items may be routed through the Finance
Committee. .

Now, the Finance Committee in its 29% (Item No. 29.11) meeting concurred recommendation
for the three items of 20° Senate meeting mentioned above. The BOG approved and
confirmed the recommendation of 29" Finance Committee meeting in this regard.

Item No. 39.23.12: To consider expansion of Campus Wide Networking (Phase IK) of
NIT Agartala. .

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of Finance Committee and confirmed
its decision for implementation. The Board also advised to look into similar practices as
followed in other NITs.
The meeting ended with Vote of Thanks to the Chairman. Je .

(Dr. Govind Bhor

Tele f fy (Prof. Deepak B. Phatak)

Secretary Chairperson
Board of Governors - Board of Governors
& Registrar, NIT Agartala . NIT Agartala

 
