
--- Page 1 ---
42™ BOG Meeting/ Agenda
27-12-2017/ NIT, Agartala

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799046

Minutes of the 42"4 Meeting of the

Board of Governors
held on December 27, 2017

 

At Conference Room, First Floor, C Wing Shastri Bhaban, New Delhi

aes tiacielieetciiacilie alias idle idieddie ii adie idee aie ie ae ee eee ca ee

 

The 42™ meeting of the Board of Governor of NIT, Agartala, was held on December 27, 2017 at 11
am in the Conference Room, First floor, C-Wing, Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi.

The following members were present in the meeting:

(1) Prof. (Dr) H. K. Sharma : Chairperson, BoG, NIT Agartala
(2) Prof. (Dr) H. K. Sharma : Director, NIT, Agartala
(3) = Sri Anil Kumar : Director, IFD, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD,

Govt. of India

(4) Shri K. Rajan : Under Secretary (NITs), MHRD, Govt. of India
(Representative of Special Secretary / Additional
Secretary / Joint Secretary dealing with Technical
Education, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD).

(5) Shri Alok Roy Choudhury : Chief Engineer, PWD, Government of Tripura,
Agartala.
(6) Dr Perumal Alagarsamy : Professor, Dept. of Physics and Representative of

Director, I[T, Guwahati

(7) Dr. Subhadeep Bhattacharjee : Asstt. Professor, Dept. of Electrical Engg., NIT
Agartala.
(8) Dr. Govind Bhargava : Secretary, Registrar, NIT, Agartala

Prof. (Dr) H. K. Sharma, Chairperson, Board of Governors of NIT, Agartala, presided over the
meeting and welcomed all the members present, for making it convenient to attend the meeting. The
Chairperson then invited the Registrar to initiate the discussions on agenda items.

Item No. 42.1: Confirmation of the draft Minutes of 40" and 41“ Meeting of Board of
Governors, NIT Agartala.

The Minutes of 40" BoG Meeting, were confirmed with the following modifications:

G3 Cex perp

 


--- Page 2 ---
 

42™ BOG Meeting/ Agenda |
27-12- 2017/ NIT, Agartala

“Sitting Fee (Honorarium) for non-official members should be Rs. 3000 per meeting, subject to
the maximum of Rs 5000/ per day and accordingly the circular for payment of TA/DA for non-
official members may be modified”

The Minutes of 41“ BoG Meeting were confirmed.

Item No. 42.2: Actions taken on decisions of the 39" BOG meeting of NIT, Agartala
held on March 24, 2017.

The Board noted the various actions taken based on the decisions taken in 39" BoG Meeting.

Regarding Item No. 39.23 [i.e “To adopt and approve the Manual of NITA, Medical Attendance Rule
in line with CS (MA) Rules”. the Board noted the following information:
“The Director, IFD, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD, Govt. of India, informed the Board
that the MHRD, Govt. of India is going to issue a letter to all NITs to follow CS (MA) rules of
Govt. of India for Medical Benefits to regular employees of NITs. Therefore, CS(MA) rules be
followed and if required, minor adoption in line of CS(MA) rules be made depending upon the
facilities in North-East Region.

Item No. 42.3: To consider implementation of 7" CPC benefits to regular Faculty
Members of NIT, Agatala and also to non-teaching employees.

The Board decided to implement 7" CPC benefits to the faculty members and non-teaching

employees after getting relevant letter from MHRD and this decision was confirmed for
implementation.

Item No. 42.4: To ratify the decision of Chairperson, BoG regarding delegation of some
administrative & financial power to the officials of NIT Agartala.

The Board ratified the decision taken by previous Chairperson of BoG and also approved point No.
ant.

The Board strongly felt that for expenditure and procurement, CVC Guidelines, GFR, Manual of
Works and Manual for Procurement of Consultancy and other services of Govt. of India, should be
followed,

Item No. 42.5: To consider some service related issues in respect of Sri Sumanta
Chakraborti, Ex-Deputy Registrar, NIT Agartala, having lien to the post
of Deputy Registrar, NIT Agartala.

42.5.1 Upgradation of Qualification of Sri Samanta Chakraborti to Ph.D.

The Board noted the administrative lapses committed by Shri Sumanta Chakraborty for getting Ph.D
degree and decided not to up-grade his qualification to Ph.D.

42.5.2 Upgradation of Pay Band of Sri Chakraborti, after completing 5 Years’ Service as per 6"
cPCc.

The board decided that without Master Degree, pay band up-gradation cannot be made.

Nm


--- Page 3 ---
42™ BOG Meeting/ Agenda
27-12- 2017/ NIT, Agartala

42.5.3 Irregularities for getting GPF and pension benefits by Shri Sumanta Chakraborti

The Board viewed irregularities seriously regarding the conversion of EPF to GPF, Therefore, the
Board felt that he can not be allowed to get GPF and Pensionery benefits in violation of the provision
of NIT Statutes.

The Board also emphasized to seek a legal opinion to issue a charge sheet at this stage, in view of
existence of a WP(c) in the High Court of Tripura.

The decision regarding this agenda (42.5) was also confirmed for implementation.

Item No. 42.6: To consider the issue of unauthorized absence of Shri Kishan
Choudhury, Assistant Professor, Production Engineering Department,
NIT Agartala during the period 27-12-2010 to 20-03-2011.

The Board decided that further reply may be sought from Shri K. Chaudhary regarding the absence
and the matter may be put up in the forthcoming BOG meeting.

Item No. 42.7: To consider the requirement of additional teaching posts as per norms at
NIT, Agartala

The Board agreed and approved the requirement of 293 teaching posts as per the student strength.
Follow up action should be taken with the MHRD to get sanction of additional 74 faculty positions.

The Board agreed for further extension of service to Contractual Faculty members so that the
academic activities should not suffer. The Board made it clear that no further Contractual Faculty
Members should be recruited for another two years unless it is of paramount importance.

The decision regarding this agenda was confirmed for implementation.

Item No. 42.8: To consider renaming of various non-teachings sanctioned post and their
allocation as per 200-point reservation roster.

The Board agreed and approved the requirement of 323 non-teaching posts as per norms. Follow up
action is needed to get sanction of additional 82 non-teaching posts. The designation and
nomenclature of posts should be as per availability of recruitment rules in respect of non-teaching
employees circulated by MHRD, vide No. 33-2/2012-TS.III dated 28-12-2017. Accordingly, 200
point reservation roster should be prepared, which shall be approved by the Director for execution.

Item No. 42.9: To consider the introduction of Annual Self-Assessment for the
Performance Based Appraisal System (PBAS) in respect of Faculty
Members of NIT, Agartala.

The Board approved the decision and authorized the Director to prepare PBAS and implement at the
earliest. The decision of the Board was confirmed for implementation.

Item No, 42.10: To consider payment of allowances to faculty members who are deputed
for Ph.D. Program under QIP to other states/ locations outside Tripura.

The Agenda was deferred and the Registrar was instructed to take further action in this regard as per
QIP guidelines.

G3 Cexft-f

ed


--- Page 4 ---
 

42™ BOG Meeting/ Agenda
27-12- 2017/ NIT, Agartala

Item No, 42.11: To ratify the decisions taken by the Chairman, BoG/ Director of NITA
regarding visits of the faculty members to foreign countries under the
CPDA.

The Board noted that Chairman BoG has the power and there is no need in future to place it to the
Board for ratification of the decision of the Chairperson.

Item No. 42.12: To ratify the decisions taken by the previous Chairman, BoG regarding
continuance of outsoureing agencies for Security, Housekeeping and
Gardening services at NITA.

The Board ratified the decision of Chairman, BoG and felt that “Open Tendering Process” should be
completed, as quickly as possible.

Item No. 42.13: To consider some issues related to “Teachers Association” at NIT, Agartala

The board agreed that the Association should give the following information whenever any letter is
submitted to the Director:

|) The date of holding meeting and duration of meeting (with starting & ending time).

2) Total number of teachers who are members of Association.

3) How many Faculty Members attended the particular meeting.

4) List and signature of faculty members, who attended the meeting.

5) How many faculty members agreed for the decisions conveyed through letters to the
Director. How many faculty members did not agree for the decisions conveyed through
letters to the Director.

6) One Digital File (compatible with popular or commonly used Media/ Video Player)
showing video recording of entire proceeding of Association Meeting.

This decision was contirmed for implementation and for any other issues, relevant guidelines
of Govt. of India may be followed.

Item No. 42.14: To consider relaxation of age for contractual non-teaching employees
who completed 5 years of service, for submitting applications against
advertisement for regular appointment of non-teaching staff at NITA, as

and when such advertisements are issued in future.
The Board noted that the MHRD has already circulated a letter vide No.F. 33-2/2012-TS.III
dated 20"" December, 2017 regarding the decision of the Council of NITSER permitting one
time age relaxation for employees engaged on adhoc /temporary/contractual basis for which the
quantum of age relaxation may be decided by the respective Board of Governors.

The Board decided that the quantum of age relaxation, would be decided by the Director.

Item No. 42.15: To ratify the decision taken by the Chairman, Senate and Chairman
(BoG) regarding nomination of faculty members to BoG as members.

The Board ratified the decision of Chairman, Senate and Chairman, BoG.

-
AS lec py


--- Page 5 ---
42"! BOG Meeting/ Agenda
27-12- 2017/ NIT, Agartala

Item No. 42.16: To consider various issues related to faculty recruitment process
initiated in September, 2017

The Board approved the Guidelines, the distribution of faculty members/ seat
allocation and reservation roster. The decision was confirmed for implementation.

Item No. 42.17: To consider the up gradation of AGP from 9000 to 9500 and 10000 to
10500 in respect of regular Associate Professors and Professors
respectively, under the policy of One Time Relaxation for Mapping to
Higher AGP.

The Board accepted the recommendations of the Committee and confirmed the same for
implementation. The date of implementation will be 27-12-2017 (the date of holding BoG meeting).

Item No. 42.18: To consider the issue of annual increments on salary in respect of some
faculty members appointed without Ph.D. degree, on regular basis, but
initially on contract, with the condition that they will be regularized
after completion of Ph.D, degree within 5 years.

The Agenda was deferred.
Item No. 42.19: To consider annual pay enhancement matters of contractual
employees (for faculty members and non-teaching employees)
of NIT, Agartala
The Board approved 15% increase for those whose consolidated pay is up to 40000. For consolidated
pay above Rs 40000, such increase will be @ 5%. The Board also decided that for any contractual
appointment in future, if required, only contractual monthly pay will be given without any provision

for yearly increment, Reappointment, if necessary, after one year, may be considered with at least
| day break in service or by holding an interview.

The decision was confirmed for implementation.
Item No. 42.20: Any other item with the permission of the Chair.

Item No: 42.20.1: To receive a note regarding a “Kokborok” Certificate Course being
Conducted by NIT, Agartala

The Board noted the Kokborok Certificate Program, being run at NITA and agreed to continue.

Item.No. 42.20.2: To consider various issues pertaining to the ongoing TEQIP-lIII
program at NIT Agartala

The Board noted the TEQIP guidelines to be followed. The Committees proposed and Project

Implementation Proposal (PIP) were approved. However, Director was authorized to change any

person at any stage from the TEQIP Team. The decision was confirmed for implementation.

Item No.42.20.3: To explore the possibility of one time relaxation for up-gradation of Grade
Pay in respect of existing regular Assistant Professors of NIT, Agartala, who

have been confirmed in service, but not possessing Ph.D. degree.

The Agenda Item was withdrawn, since the proposal violates the provision of Statutes.

; Gaie ft 2

 


--- Page 6 ---
 

42" BOG Meeting/ Agenda —
27-12-2017/ NIT, Agartala
Item No.42.20.4: Honorarium to BOG/FC member

The Board decided that an honorarium of Rs 5000/ be paid to the members of BOG/FC. The decision
was confirmed for implementation.

The Meeting ended with a note of thanks to the Chair.

“AB 4 on fucteestecem
Dr. Govtid Blasgata” Prof.Dr) H.K.Sharma

Secretary Chairperson
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar, NIT. Agartala NIT, Agartala
