
--- Page 1 ---
ffiffi
INsiIiUfi 0] ruCHN0MGY AGARTAI,I
NATIONAI
Barjala, Jirania, Aguttulu - 799046 (Ttip
ttrf
ilzzfr4- Date2 610912023
4-year Integrated Teacher Education Proqram (ITEP) B.Sc.- B.Ed.
I. Counselling rounds for Admission to B.Sc.- B.Ed. (Secondary level) 2023-24
Applications are invited for counselling rounds for admission to the 4-Year Integrated
Teacher Education program (ITEP) B.Sc.-B.Ed. programme (Secondary level) at NIT Agartala for
the Academic Year 2023-24.
II. Seat Matrix
Seat matrix for 4-year ITEP B.Sc.- B.Ed. (Secondary level) for the Academic Year 2023-24
atNational Institute of Technology Agartala is as follows (Total intake: 50):
Quota OPEN O P P w E D N. EWS E P W wD S. ST P S w T D - SC P S w C D - Total
Home State
(HS) 10 I 1 I 8 0 4 0 25
Quota OPEN O P P w E D N- EWS E P W w S D . ST P S w T D . SC P S w C D . oBc o P B w c D - Total
Other State
(os) l2 1 1 1 I 0 J 0 6 0 25
III. Eligibility:
a) The candidate should pass'class XII Board Examination (10+2) or its equivalent
examination securing minimum of 50Yo marks in aggregate (best five subjects, including
physics, Chemistry and Mathematics) from a recognized Board/Council.
b) To bp eligible, it is mandatory that the candidate should have studied and passed Physics,
Chemistry and Mathematics subjects in class XII Board Examination (10+2) or its
equivalent examination.
c) The candidate should have a valid score card of NCET-2023.
d) State of eligibility (HS or OS):
i. State of eligibility means the state from where thecandidate has passed Class XII
(or equivalent) examination. It is to note that the state of eligibility DOES NOT
depend upon the native place or the place of residence of the candidate.
If a candidate has passed Class XII (or equivalent) examination from one state but
appeared for improvement from another state, the candidate's state of eligibility
will be from where the candidate first passed the Class XII (or equivalent)
examination and NOT the state from where the candidate has appeared for
improvement.
Barjala, Jiranie-799046,tTripura, India. Website-ry!!4lg

--- Page 2 ---
{r%tq frTailrFnft dwtTq,3rrffil
()[
NATIONAI, INSUTUM ffiCHNOI,OGY AfiARIAI,A
f:rp*Z: M
B arj ala, Jirania, Agartala, 7 9gO
ination centre will be considered their
State of Eligibility, not the state or centre where the candidate is enrolled.
IV. Online aPPlication:
.
All applicants must apply onlinehttps://admission.nita.ac.inl
. The portal is compatible to Mozilla Firefox. Candidates are advised to use Mozilla
Firefox browser onlY.
o Candidate should apply through online mode only. Requisite non-refundable application
fee to the extent #I[s. 1000/- for OP/OBC-NCL/EWS candidates and Rs.500/- for
sc/sT/pwD candidates has to be submitted through the online pavment portal onlv.
Offline hand written, or printed apptication wilt not be entertained.
Candidates must wait for the payment confirmation message. If not received, hoY
email to nitmisagt@gmail.com'
o After registration, Application ID (to be used as login name) with Password will be sent
to the email ID provided by the applicant'
. Using the login credential, applicants must login to the Admission Portal for filling the
required information.
. Application fees (non-refundable) must be paid through this online portal only.
. After completion and submission of the online form, filled in form in PDF format will be
generated.
. On the day of reporting, candidates should bring a printed copy of the on-line filled-in
form along with utt ttt" original of the necessary documents (to support all educational
qualification, date of birth, category, NCET- 2023 scbre etc.) and a set of photocopy of
all such documents, duly self-attested.
resDonst on the f the candi
v. Documents to be uploaded (scanned copy of original):
(Multiple documents to be converted into a Single PDF file and uploaded wherever applicable)
1. Valid score card of NCET-2023
2. lgth standard/lvlatriculation or equivalent certificate or any other certificate issued by
government authorities, as proof of Date of Birth and Name of Candidate.
3. Mark sheet/grade card and Pass certificate (if issued separately from school) of the class
XII Board examination (10+2) or its equivalent examination (As single PDF file).
4. For proof of State of eligibility:
Mark sheet/grade card and Pass certificate (if issued separately from school) of the class
XII Board examination (10+2) or its equivalent examination (As single PDF file) in caseT
* name and address of school clearly written on it.
Barjela, Jirania-799046f Tripura, India. Website-www.nlta.ac.in

--- Page 3 ---
{*'qfiffi$l
NAIIONAI, INSTITUII O] T]CHNOI,OfiY AfiARTAI,A
Barjala, Jirania, Agartala - 7 99046 (Tripura)
S. ConOuct/Character Certificate issued by the Institution last attended.
G. SC/ST/PwD/OBC-NCL/EWS certificate (if and whichever applicable).
The OBC-NCL/ EWS certificate must be issued by Competent Authority on or
after 0110412023. Admission under PwD category will be based on the
recommendation of Medical Board of NIT Agartala.
Importa+t Note:
o
Caste certificate (SC/ST/OBC-NCL) issued by Maharashtra State must be validated by
Social Welfare department (in case of SC and OBC-NCL category) and Tribal Welfare
department (in case of ST category) of Maharashtra Government.
. SC/ST/OBC-NCL candidates of Maharashtra State have to produce their Caste Validity
Certificate.
. ST certificates from Tamil Nadu state must be issued by the concerned Revenue
Divisional Officer.
. If any Certificate is in a language other than English/ Hindi, an English version of that
certificate attested by a Gazetted Officer/Competent Authority should be uploaded
compulsorily, along with scan copy of original certificate in a Sinele PDF file.
VI. Selection Procedure:
.
Based on the total score obtained in NCET-2023.
. In case of any tie, the marks obtained in the Physics paper in NCET'2023 will be
considered as tie-breaker, followed by Mathematics and Chemistry.
VII. Tentative Schedule:
E\rENT DATB& TIME
Sl.no.
Registration Start of registration, online application and 2610912023
and application fee payment (Tuesday)
Data Entry Last date and time of online payment (non- 0511012023
I refundable) (Thursday), 5 pm
0611012023
Last date for submission of online application (Fridav)" 2 pm
Round I rUt0l2023
Publication of list of provisionally selected
(Wednesday), by
candidates in Round I
t2 noon
tvt012023
2.
Acceptance of allotted seat by Online Institute MIS to
Portal by payment of semester fee t411012023
(5 pm)
Round 2
1711012023
Publication of list of provisionally selected
(Tuesday),by 12
candidates in Round 2
noon
Ja. t7lt0Aa23
to
Acceptance of allotted seat by Online Institute MIS
t91t012023
Portal by payment of semester fee (5 pm) I
)k it
ItbrfiTI L
Berjala, Jirania-799046, Tripure, India. Website-g*ry."it&Sg.in

--- Page 4 ---
ffi
{rqlq
{T-lT1'3{rrffiTrl
(}]
NATIONAI, IN$IIIUTE IMHNOI,OfiY AfiARTAI,A
Barjala, Jirania, Agartala, Tripura -799046
30n012023
Physical Reporting for candidates at the Institute
3U1012023
Date for Start of Classes
Su uent rounds (if an To be notified
VII. Fee details:
. First Semester Fee of Rs. 2413251- (academic fee) is to be paid in MIS portal as seat
acceptance fee for those candidates allotted a seat during the counselling rounds I & 2,
strictly as Per above schedule.
. Non-payment of First Semester Fee and incomplete admission process in MIS portal will
lead to cancellation of the allotted seat in the concerned round of counselling.
. The detailed fee structure is available on the Institute website link
.ac.in/U liDisola ID:ek.
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:
1. For accommodation and fees related to hostel and mess, candidates may contact the
Office of the Chief Warden, NIT Agartala (chiefwardennita@smail.com).
2. Candidates must produce all original documents during verification during physical
reporting at NITA gartala on the notified date.
3. Candidates, if facing any admission related issue may write to
help.itenadmnnita@smail.com. The email id will remain activated till the completion
of the admission process.
Candidates may also contact through 0381-2348537 for any query related to the
admission (during 9 amto 5 pm of working days).
4. For any sort of technical issues, filling online application or online payment of fees,
candidates may write to nitmisast@smail.com.
5. Candidates are advised to visit the Institute website regularly for any update.
This is issued with the approval of Competent Authority.
,2
a IKY
Dean (Academic Affairs)
Copy to:
1. P.S. to the Director, for information of the Director.
2.
Registrar, for kind information.
3. HoD, MHSS, for kind information and necessary action.
4.
FIC, MIS, for kind information and necessary action.
5. Slstem Administrator, for information to upload the same on the Institute website.
Barjala, Jirania-799046, tripura, India. Website-www.nita.ac.irr