
--- Page 1 ---
US Welt FIM SA
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala — 799046 (Tripura)

NITA.5/(143-Acady/ITEP/2025-26/4) ~BOOS Date: Ff /07/2025

ADMISSION NOTIFICATION

4-Year Integrated Teacher Education Program (ITEP) B.Sc.- B.Ed.
Secondary level) for the Academic Year 2025-26

 

 

 

I. Admission to B.Sc.- B.Ed. (Secondary level) 2025-26

Applications are invited for admission to the 4-Year Integrated Teacher Education Program
(ITEP) B.Sc.-B.Ed. programme (Secondary level) at NIT Agartala for the Academic Year 2025-26,
based on the NCET 2025 exam conducted by NTA.

II. Seat Distribution
Seat distribution for 4-Year ITEP B.Sc.- B.Ed. (Secondary level) for the Academic Year
2025-26 at National Institute of Technology Agartala is as follows (Total intake: 50):

 

  
 

  

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

QUOTA OP ST OP-PH | TOTAL
HOME STATE (HS) 10 04 08 01 25
QUOTA OP op- | OBC- SC ST | OP-PH | TOTAL
EWs | NCL
OTHER STATE (OS)| 10 02 07 03 02 01 | 25

 

 

 

 

 

ILL Minimum Eligibility requirements:

a) The candidate should pass class XIJ Board Examination (10+2) or its equivalent
examination securing minimum of 50% marks in aggregate (best five subjects, including
Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics) from a recognized Board/Council.

And

b) To be eligible, it is mandatory that the candidate should have studied and passed Physics,
Chemistry and Mathematics subjects in class XII Board Examination (10+2) or its
equivalent examination.

And

c) The candidate should be qualified in NCET-2025, conducted by NTA. Must have appeared
for the Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics tests as the domain subjects in the NCET
2025 conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA).

And

d) State of eligibility (HS or OS):

i. State of eligibility means the state from where the candidate has passed Class XII
(or equivalent) examination. It is to note that the state of eligibility DOESNOT
depend upon the native place or the place of residence of the candidate.

J Barjala, Jirania-799046, Tripura, India. Website-www.nita.ac,in
o

 


--- Page 2 ---
 

USS Weal CA STC
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala, Tripura — 799046

 

ii. If.a candidate has passed Class XII (or equivalent) examination from one state but
appeared for improvement from another state, the candidate’s state of eligibility
will be from where the candidate first passed the Class XII (or equivalent)
examination and NOT the state from where the candidate has appeared for
improvement.

ili. For Open Schooling candidates, the state of centre will be considered as the State of
Eligibility.

TV. Selection Procedure:

i. Scrutiny of applications based on the number of available seats (category-wise)
and eligible candidates in order of merit of the score obtained in the NCET-2025
ii. Fulfilment of Minimum Eligibility requirements as per section III.

iii. A merit list will be generated by NIT Agartala based on the score in NCET-2025

obtained.

Note:

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

In case of any tie, the candidate older in age will be placed above the candidate who is
younger in age. If the tie breaking criterion fails to break the tie, then, higher marks in
the total marks obtained in Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry papers in 12"/ Higher
secondary level will be considered as tie-breaker.

In cases where a qualifying board issues only letter grades without providing the
corresponding percentage of marks, the candidate must obtain and submit a
certificate from the board indicating the equivalent percentage at the time of seat
acceptance. In case of failure to provide such certificate, the decision of NIT Agartala
will be final and binding.

Preference may be given to the candidates who has opted NIT Agartala while applying
for NCET 2025.

Inclusion in the NCET 2025 scores does not guarantee admission. Admissions will
be made purely on merit, based on NCET scores, and subject to seat availability at
NIT Agartala.

All admission offers made during the seat allotment process shall be considered
provisional until the candidate fulfils all admission requirements and deadlines as
stipulated by NIT Agartala.

V. Online application:
All applicants must apply online https://admission.nita.ac.in/

The portal is compatible to Mozilla Firefox. Candidates are advised to use Mozilla
Firefox browser only.

Candidate should apply through online mode only. Requisite non-refundable application
fee to the extent of Rs. 1000/- for OP/OBC-NCL/EWS candidates and Rs. 500/- for
SC/ST/PwD candidates has to be submitted through the online payment portal only.

Offline hand written, or printed application will not be entertained.

 

 

\c

Barjala, Jirania-799046, Tripura, India, Website-www.nita.ac.in


--- Page 3 ---
 

TS Well HIM SIA
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala - 799046 (Tripura)

 

 

After registration, Application ID (to be used as login name) with Password will be sent
to the email ID provided by the applicant.

Using the login credential, applicants must login to the Admission Portal for filling the
required information.

Application fees (non-refundable) must be paid through this online portal only.

After completion and submission of the online form, filled in form in PDF format will be
generated.

On the day of reporting, candidates should bring a printed copy of the on-line filled-in
form along with all the original of the necessary documents (to support all educational
qualification, date of birth, category, NCET- 2025 score card etc.) and a set of
photocopy of all such documents, duly self-attested.

NIT Agartala will not be responsible for any failure on the part of the candidates in
making payment of application fee onlinefor any reason.

VI. Documents to be uploaded (Scanned copy of Original):
(Multiple documents to be converted into a Single PDF file and uploaded wherever applicable)

1.
2.

Valid score card of NCET-2025 (mandatory).

10" standard/Matriculation or equivalent certificate or any other certificate issued by
government authorities, as proof of Date of Birth and Name of Candidate (mandatory).
Mark sheet/grade card and Pass certificate (if issued separately from school) of the class
XII Board examination (10+2) or its equivalent examination (As single PDF file)
(mandatory).

For proof of State of eligibility:

Mark sheet/grade card and Pass certificate (if issued separately from school) of the class
XII Board examination (10+2) or its equivalent examination (As single PDF file) in case
name and address of school clearly written on it. In case of applicant passing from Open
School, admit card of 12" examination (mandatory).

Conduct/Character Certificate issued by the Institution last attended.
SC/ST/PwD/OBC-NCL/EWS certificate (if and whichever applicable).

The OBC-NCL/ EWS certificate must be issued by Competent Authority on or
after 01/04/2025. Admission under PwD category as per point no. e under
important note and based on the recommendation of Medical Board of NIT
Agartala.

Important Note:

a) Caste certificate (SC/ST/OBC-NCL) issued by Maharashtra State must be
validated by Social Welfare department (in case of SC and OBC-NCL category)
and Tribal Welfare department (in case of ST category) of Maharashtra
Government.

b) SC/ST/OBC-NCL candidates of Maharashtra State have to produce their Caste
Validity Certificate.

Barjala, Jirania-799046, Tripura, India. Website-www-nita,ac.in


--- Page 4 ---
US Ae GI SEAT
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala, Tripura — 799046

 

 

 

c) ST certificates from Tamil Nadu state must be issued by the concerned Revenue
Divisional Officer.

d) If any Certificate is in a language other than English/Hindi, an English version of
that certificate attested by a Gazetted Officer/Competent Authority should be
uploaded compulsorily, along with scan copy of original certificate in a Single
PDF file.

e) PWD candidates seeking admission under the PwD category must submit a valid
disability certificate (as per Annexure 2) or a Unique Disability Identification
(UDID) certificate. Only candidates with benchmark disabilities (40% or more
impairment), regardless of the type of disability, are eligible for reservation. The
disability must be certified by a Government Medical Board, and the candidate
must be deemed medically fit to pursue the programme. The certificate should
preferably follow Form-PwD (II), Form-PwD (III), or Form-PwD (IV), as per the
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017.

VIL. Tentative Schedule:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SI. No. Event Date and Time
1 Online | Start of registration, online application and 31/07/2025
Registration and | application fee payment (Thursday)
Uploading of Last date and time of online payment 12/08/2025
documents | (non-refundable) (Tuesday)
Last date for submission of online application (Wednesday)
2 Round 1 Publication of list of provisionally selected 20/08/2025 7
candidates (Wednesday)
Acceptance of allotted seat by Online Institute 22/08/2025 to
MIS Portal by payment of semester fee 26/08/2025
3 Physical Reporting for candidates at the Institute 27/08/2025 to
29/08/2025
(10 am to 2 pm)
4 Commencement of Classes 01/09/2025
(Monday) (tentative)
| 5 | Subsequent rounds (if any) To be notified later

 

 

VIII. Fee details:

e First Semester Fee of Rs.29,325/-(academic fee) is to be paid in MIS portal as seat
acceptance fee for those candidates allotted a seat during the round 1, strictly as per
above schedule.

e Non-payment of First Semester Fee and incomplete admission process in MIS portal will
lead to cancellation of the allotted seat in the concerned round of counselling.

e The detailed fee structure is available on the (Institute website link
https://www.nita.ac.in/UserPanel/DisplayPage.aspx?page=ke&ItemID=ek

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:

1. For accommodation and fees related to hostel and mess, candidates may contact the

Office of the Chief Warden, NIT Agartala (chiefwardennita@gmail.com).

f
Ne Barjala, Jirania-799046, Tripura, India. Website-www.nita.ac.in

 

 


--- Page 5 ---
USS Weil FA ATCT
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala — 799046 (Tripura)

 

2. Candidates must produce all original documents during verification during physical
reporting at NITAgartala on the notified date.

3. Institute Fee once deposited shall not be refunded in any case.

4. Candidates, if facing any admission related issue may write to
help.itepadmnnita@gmail.com. Candidates may also contact through 0381-2348537
for any query related to the admission (during 9 am to 5 pm of working days).

The email id will remain activated till the completion of the admission process.
5. For any sort of technical issues, filling online application or online payment of fees,

candidates may write to nitmisagt@mail.nita.ac.in

6. Candidates are advised to visit the Institute website regularly for any update.

This is issued with the approval of Competent Authority. /

(Prof. Rajib Saha)
Dean (Academic)

Copy to:

1. P.S. to the Director, for information of the Director.

2. Registrar, for kind information.

3. HoD, Education (ITEP), for kind information and necessary action.

4. FIC, MIS, for kind information and necessary action.

5. System Administrator, for information to upload the same on the Institute website

ay

6
Dean Kaemid

Laan eee eRe ee Teer eee eee eee eee eet ee eee ee rrr ee ana
Barjala, Jirania-799046, Tripura, India, Website-www.nita.ac.in
