
--- Page 1 ---
   

usa telat Gert erat

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

wife Barjala, Jirania, Agartala ~ 799046(Tripura)

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC & EXAMINATIONS
exam.nitagartala@gmail.com

 

No.F,NITA.6(1- Exam) / NOTICE/ 2016-17 Dated the 24th February 2025

NOTICE
This is to inform ail the students of UG, DUAL, PG & BSc. BEd.

appearing for Mid Term Even Semester Examination scheduled from 28th
February 2025, that the Admit Card for the said Examination can be printed

from

 

SL. No] Name of the Examination

their respective MIS Account as per the scheduled dates mentioned below:

Duration of downloading

Admit card from student’s

respective MIS Account

25th February 2025
to

27th February 2025

   
  
 
 
 
  
  

    
 

     
   

 

Examination
Starting date

   
  
  
  
 

 

  

Mid Term Even Semester
Examination
(UG, DUAL, PG & BSc, BEd.)

     
   

28th February
2025

 
 
  
 

No students will be able to take the print out of their Admit Card before

or after the above mentioned schedule.

All the students are hereby instructed to bring the same admit card

to the Examination Hall while appearing for the examination and take the

 

endorsement from the invigilator at the designated place. Any student who

 

fail to bring the same admit card each day of the examination to the Exam

 

Hall will be required to bring the duplicate admit card in the remaining da

 

which can also be downloaded from their respective MIS Account against a

 

fine of Es. 200/-.

The students without their respective admit card will be debarred from

appearing in the Examinations.

\A

Associate Dean (Examinations)

Copy to:

1,
2
3.
4

5.

Dean (Academics) for kind information.

. All HoDs for kind information and necessary action please,

MIS In-Charge for kind information and necessary action please.

. The System Administrator, NIT Agartala. He is requested to upload the Notification in the

Institute Website.

Guard file for record.
ye
CDA

Associate Dean (Examinations)
