
--- Page 1 ---
QO = Q a ¥
Tey ara pT BATT SAT tell
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Barjala, Jirania, Agartala — 799046 (Tripura)

 

 

mac
NITA.5/(143-Acad)/ITEP/2024-25/ 7] -IFF3 Date: 93 /09/2024
Admission Notification

4-Year Integrated Teacher Education Program (ITEP) B.Sc.- B.Ed.
(Secondary level) for the Academic Year 2024-25

I. Admission to B.Sc.- B.Ed. (Secondary level) 2024-25

- Applications are invited for admission to the 4-Year Integrated TeacherEducation Program
(ITEP) B.Sc.-B.Ed. programme (Secondary level) at NIT Agartala for the Academic Year 2024-25,
based on the NCET 2024 exam conducted by NTA.

II. Seat Matrix
Seat matrix for 4-Year ITEP B.Sc.- B.Ed. (Secondary level) for the Academic Year 2024-25
at National Institute of Technology Agartala is as follows (Total intake: 50):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

QUOTA OP OP-EWS SC | ST | ST-PWD | TOTAL
HOME STATE (HS) 10 03 05 | 06 | 01 25
QUOTA OP OP- OBC- SC ST SCs) TOTAL
| EWS NCL PWD
OTHER STATE (OS) 10 | 02 07 | 03 | 02 01 25

 

 

 

 

 

ILL. Eligibility:

a) The candidate should pass class XII Board Examination (10+2) or its equivalent
examination securing minimum of 50% marks in aggregate (best five subjects, including
Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics) from a recognized Board/Council.

And

b) To be eligible, it is mandatory that the candidate should have studied and passed Physics,
Chemistry and Mathematics subjects in class XII Board Examination (10+2) or its
equivalent examination.

And
c) The candidate should be qualified in NCET-2024, conducted by NTA.
And

d) State of eligibility (HS or OS):

i. State of eligibility means the state from where the candidate has passed Class XII
(or equivalent) examination. It is to note that the state of eligibility DOESNOT
depend upon the native place or the place of residence of the candidate.

ii. If a candidate has passed Class XII (or equivalent) examination from one state but
appeared for improvement from another state, the candidate

   
 
   

 

s state of eligibility

 

Barjala, Jirania-799046, Tripura, India: Website-www.nita.ac.in


--- Page 2 ---
  
  

 

\

eo
a Sy

a2,
Eso
%, eye

X
“as, dbs
SS

  
   
 
 
   

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Barjala, Jirania, Agartala, Tripura — 799046

 

will be from where the candidate first passed the Class XII (or equivaétnt)
examination and NOT the state from where the candidate has appeared for
_ improvement.
iii. For Open, Schooling candidates, the state of centre will be considered as the State of
Eligibility. .

IV. Online application:

All applicants must apply online https://admission.nita.ac.in/

The portal is compatible to Mozilla Firefox. Candidates are advised to use Mozilla
Firefox browser only.

Candidate should apply through online mode only. Requisite non-refundable application
fee to the extent of Rs. 1000/- for OP/OBC-NCL/EWS candidates and Rs. 500/- for
SC/ST/PwD candidates has to be submitted through the online payment portal only.

Offline hand written, or printed application will not be entertained.

After registration, Application ID (to be used as login name) with Password will be sent
to the email ID provided by the applicant.

Using the login credential, applicants must login to the Admission Portal for filling the
required information.

Application fees (non-refundable) must be paid through this online portalonly.

After completion and submission of the online form, filled in form in PDF format will be
generated.

On the day of reporting, candidates should bring a printed copy of the on-line filled-in
form along with all the original of the necessary documents (to support all educational
qualification, date of birth, category, NCET- 2024 score card etc.) and a set of
photocopy of all such documents, duly self-attested.

NIT Agartala will not be responsible for any failure on the part of the candidates in

making payment of application fee onlinefor any reason.

V. Documents to be uploaded (Scanned copy of Original):
(Multiple documents to be converted into a Single PDF file and uploaded wherever applicable)

a
2.

Valid score card of NCET-2024 (mandatory).

10"standard/Matriculation or equivalent certificate or any other certificate issued by
government authorities, as proof of Date of Birth and Name of Candidate (mandatory).
Mark sheet/grade card and Pass certificate (if issued separately from school) of the class
XII Board examination (10+2) or its equivalent examination (As single PDF file)
(mandatory).

For proof of State of eligibility:

Mark sheet/grade card and Pass certificate (if issued separately from school) of the class
XII Board examination (10+2) or its equivalent examination (As single PDF file) in case

 

 


--- Page 3 ---
Xx 5 : :
TSS Weal HIM ATT
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Barjala, Jirania, Agartala — 799046 (Tripura)

 

name and address of school clearly written on it. In case of applicant passing from Open
School, admit card of 12'" examination (mandatory).

5. Conduct/Character Certificate issued by the Institution last attended.

6. SC/ST/PwD/OBC-NCL/EWS certificate (if and whichever applicable).
The OBC-NCL/ EWS certificate must be issued by Competent Authority on or
after 01/04/2024. Admission under PwD category will be based on_ the
recommendation of Medical Board of NIT Agartala.

Important Note:
e Caste certificate (SC/ST/OBC-NCL) issued by Maharashtra State must be validated

by Social Welfare department (in case of SC and OBC-NCL category) and Tribal
Welfare department (in case of ST category) of Maharashtra Government.

e SC/ST/OBC-NCL candidates of Maharashtra State have to produce their Caste
Validity Certificate.

e ST certificates from Tamil Nadu state must be issued by the concerned Revenue
Divisional Officer.

e If any Certificate is in a language other than English/Hindi, an English version of that
certificate attested by a Gazetted Officer/Competent Authority should be uploaded
compulsorily, along with scan copy of original certificate in a Single PDF file.

VI. Selection Procedure:

e Based on the total score obtained in NCET-2024.

e Incase of any tie, the candidate older in age will be placed above the candidate who is
younger in age. If the tie breaking criterion fails to break the tie, then, higher marks
in the total marks obtained in Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry papers in 1377
Higher secondary level will be considered as tie-breaker.

VI. Tentative Schedule:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SI. No. Event Date and Time
1 Online Start of registration, online application and 03/09/2024
Registration and | application fee payment (Tuesday)
Uploading of Last date and time of online payment 11/09/2024
documents (non-refundable) . (Wednesday), 2 pm
Last date for submission of online application (We jamgeail 4 6 pm
2 Round | Publication of list of provisionally selected 13/09/2024
candidates in Round 1 (Friday)
Acceptance of allotted seat by Online Institute 13/09/2024 to
MIS Portal by payment of semester fee _|_17/09/2024 (11.59 pm)
3 Physical Reporting for candidates at the Institute 17/09/2024 to
: 20/09/2024
| (9 am to 4 pm)
4 Commencement of Classes 20/09/2024
(Friday)
5 Subsequent rounds (if any) To be notified

 

 

VIII. Fee details: \y

Barjala, Jirania-799046, Tripura, India. Website-ywww.nita.ac.in

 

 

 

 

 

 


--- Page 4 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Barjala, Jirania, Agartala, Tripura — 799046

 

e First Semester Fee of Rs.21,325/-(academic fee)is to be paid in MIS portal ds” seat
acceptance fee for those candidates allotted a seat during the round 1, strictly as per
above schedule.

e Non-payment of First Semester Fee and incomplete admission process in MIS portal will
lead to cancellation of the allotted seat in the concerned round of counselling.

e The detailed fee structure is available on the Institute website link
https://www.nita.ac.in/UserPanel/DisplayPage.aspx ?page=ke&ItemID=ek

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:

1. For accommodation and fees related to hostel and mess, candidates may contact the
Office of the Chief Warden, NIT Agartala (chiefwardennita@gmail.com),

2. Preference may be given to the candidates who opted NIT Agartala while applying for
NCET 2024.

3. Candidates must produce all original documents during verification during physical
reporting at NIT Agartala on the notified date.

4. Institute Fee once deposited shall not be refunded in any case.

5. Candidates, if facing any admission related issue may write to
help.itepadmnnita@gmail.com. Candidates may also contact through 0381-2348537
for any query related to the admission (during 9 am to 5 pm of working days).

The email id will remain activated till the completion of the admission process.

6. For any sort of technical issues, filling online application or online payment of fees,

candidates may write to nitmisagt@gmail.com.

7. Candidates are advised to visit the Institute website regularly for any update.

This is issued with the approval of Competent Authority. \

(Prof. ajib Saha)

Dean (Academic)

Copy to:

1. P.S. to the Director, for information of the Director.

2. Registrar, for kind information.

3. HoD, Education, for kind information and necessary action.

4. FIC, MIS, for kind information and necessary action.

5. System Administrator, for information to upload the same on the Institute website

\

Dean (Academic)

 

 

 
