
--- Page 1 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala -799 046 (Tripura)
FNITA.74(S2)CW/Notification/2022/ T09-l6
Date:-09.08.2023
NOTICE
This is for general information to all the first-year UG and Dual degree students, who are willing to stay in the
hostel, are required to deposit the Hostel fee and Mess Charges for the odd Semester (Session 2023-24)
through MIS Online payment mode. Note the login ld and password, required to log in to your MIS account,
from the Provisional Admission letter of NIT Agartala that will be provided to you after completion of
physical verification.
(1) Details of hostel fees are given in table-A
TABLE-A: Details of hostel fee
Program Yr Gender Eligibility Hostel Initial Fee Hostel and Mess Hostel Occupancy
Advance Allotted
Caution Admission Hostel Mess
Money fee Fee Advance
UG First Boys All 5000* 2000 6200 20000 RNT Double
UG? First Girls Limited# 5000* 2000 6200 20000 Gargi Double
Note: * Rs.5000/- is refundable after completion of the Course.
* Due to limited vacancy in girls' hostel, all the girls whose home state is other than Tripura
willb e allotted in priority. Girls from Home State Tripura may apply as and when notified for
admission.
T (B.Tech and dual degrees BSMS and BTMT)
(2) Eligible students, as per Table A, after physical reporting, a student should pay the one-time hostel
initial fee (Rs.7000) through their MIS account using the below-mentioned procedure:
Login in MIS Account -- Online Payment -- SBI EPAY -- Common Payment Interface - Select
Receipt Type -- Hostel Initial Fee -Pay
(3) After paying the initial hostel fee, students should submit the hostel fee (Rs.26200/-) through their
MIS account using the below-mentioned procedure:
Login in MIS Account-- Online Payment-- SBI EPAY -- Common Payment Interface -- Select
Receipt Type -- Hostel Fee-Pay
(4) After paying the hostel fee, go to room allotment in the MIS using the below-mentioned procedure:
HostelTransaction-Automatic room allotment--Allot Room
(5) At the hostel office of RNT/Gargi hostel produce the soft copy of receipts (generated in steps 2 & 3)
worth Rs 33, 200/-, the hostel room allotment letter (generated in step 4) along with the filled hostel
application form inh ard copy.
(6) For any queries related to the hostel, students can contact hostel wardens and supervisors.
Table-B: Details of hostel wardens and supervisors
Hostel name Hostel warden Hostel supervisor
Dr. Muthusiva Ramapandian-7896172343 Mr. Satyajit Das-(8|3208543 1)
RNT: block-1 & 2( Ist Year
UG) Dr. Debanjan Acharyya- 8981720578 Mr. Rabindra Das- (9436557455)
Dr. Shikha Maurya- 9425450673 Mrs.Mahuya Biswas-(9774607090)
GargiH ostel (Girls Hostel)
Mrs.Rumita Saha-(7308354700)
Dr. Ranjita Das- 8787779 140
1|Page

--- Page 2 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala - 799 046(Tripura)
(7)There is no guest room facility for the parents in the Hostel. Therefore, it is advised
to make the necessary arrangement on your own.
(8)Hostel reporting time is 9.00 AM to 6.00 PM only.
(9)Institute has an International Guest house (1GH) where seats are available on a
payment basis subject to availability. Those who are interested to book IGH may
send ar equest to the following email: chiefwardennita@gmail.com. However,
students/parents must ensure to confirm the booking of IGH before arriving at NIT
Agartala.
(10) For boys hostel, there is no limitation of seat so, all interested students can take
admission following the procedure mentioned above.
Chief Warden
Copy to:
1. PS to the Director for kind information to the Director.
2. The Registrar, NITA for kind information.
3. The Dean (SWl) and Dean (SW2) for kind information
4. All HODsf or kind information.
5. Wardens and Supervisors of NITA Hostel.
6. The Faculty In-charge, MIS for kind information.
7. Security officer, NITA.
8. System Administrator with request to upload the notice in NITA website.
9. All Notice Boards.
Chief Warden

--- Page 3 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)
Application No.: _________(For office use only)
FORM NO – H1
(Hostel Admission Form) RECENT
PHO TO
To
The Chief Warden,
NIT-Agartala
Sub: Application for Hostel accommodation
Sir,
I am a student of National Institute of Technology, Agartala and would like to avail hostel
accommodation. I am furnishing herewith my requisite information.
(Fill all the details in (CAPITAL LETTERS):
1. Name of the Student :-……………………………………Mobile ……………….…email………….
2. Father’s Name :-………………………………………… Mobile …………….….... email…………..
3. Mother’s Name:-………………………………………… Mobile …………………. email………….
4. Date of Birth ………………..5. State:-…………………………… 6. Branch:- ……………………..
7. Semester:-…………………8. Student’s Reg./Enrolment no…………………/………………………
9. Permanent Address.(Enclose PRC for local students)
..................................................................................................................................................................
State.……………………………….……Pin………………… P.S…………………………………….
10.Name of Local Guardian ………………………………………………………………….…………
11.Address of Local Guardian…………………………………………………………………………..
………………………………………Pin………………………… Mobile………………………,.……
12.Blood Group of the Student…………………….
Place:___________________
Date:____________________ Signature of the Student
NOTE: Steps to follow for hostel admission.
1. After academic registration, student should pay the one-time hostel initial fee (Rs. 7000) through their
MIS account using below mentioned procedure: https:/mis.nita.ac.in➔login➔Online Payment ➔ SBI
EPAY ➔ Common Payment Interface ➔ Select Receipt Type➔ Hostel Initial Fee ➔ Pay
2. After paying initial hostel fee, student should submit the hostel fee Rs. 26,200/- through their MIS
account using the below mentioned procedure: Online Payment ➔ SBI EPAY ➔ Common Payment
Interface ➔ Select Receipt Type➔ Hostel Fee ➔ Pay
3. After paying full fees (Rs. 33,200/-) student himself/herself can allot a hostel room in MIS as follows:
MIS➔ Login➔Hostel➔Transaction➔ Automatic Room Allotment➔Allot Room
ENTER THE ALLOTTED ROOM DETAILS
Name of allotted Hostel:………………………. Block No………………Room No……………
Signature of Hostel Supervisor 1 of page 4

--- Page 4 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)
RULES AND REGULATIONS OF HOSTELS, NIT AGARTALA
1. Keep calm and quiet to maintain the peace and harmony inside the hostel and mess.
2. Ragging (verbal/physical/psychological) is a crime and it is strictly prohibited on campus & off
campus. Punishment for raggers will obey the orders of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India. If
you are a victim, you are requested to report the same to supervisor/Warden/Anti-Ragging
committee immediately.
3. Allotted room/floor/corridor/toilet must be kept neat and clean enough for healthy living for
all individuals. Students are also requested to follow the necessary COVID-19 protocols as per
WHO regulations.
4. Personal laptop without external speaker, mobile phone, power bank are only allowed for use.
Use of any other electrical appliances for any reason is strictly prohibited.
5. Fighting among each other in a group or as an individual is punishable offence at any
circumstances.
6. Cooking and keeping pets are not allowed inside the hostel premises.
7. Using any kind of motor vehicles is strictly prohibited in the campus and hostel premises for
boarders of hostels. Students permitted to stay outside are allowed to come to the institute
using their own vehicles, but they should park their vehicle in the designated parking area for
them. Any student is restricted to use any kind of motor vehicles without permission from the
authority in the campus.
8. Smoking/chewing tobacco/consumption of alcoholic drinks or supplying any of these items to
others is strictly prohibited in hostel/campus premises.
9. Possession of lethal weapons like stick, rods, knife, gun(s), bullet(s), pistol(s), sickle/tatkal/daw
etc., in the hostel premises is strictly prohibited.
10. No hosteller can take any article/utensils from mess to outside, not even in the hostel room.
11. Any unauthorized accommodation by the hosteller for friends/visitors/relatives at the hostel
room is strictly prohibited. Non-boarders, including day scholars, should not stay in the hostel
without prior written permission from the respective warden/ chief warden.
12. In the case of Gargi Hostel, only the lady guardians are allowed to visit the boarders on
Saturday, Sunday and Institute Holidays only during 12:30 PM to 3:30 PM for the duration of
30 minutes/as permitted by the concerned hostel authority, after submitting a photocopy of
the govt. issued identity proof.
13. Photograph pasting/Drawing/Writing on the wall of the room/furniture/door/bathrooms/
common area of the hostel is strictly prohibited.
14. The allotted rooms of the hostel cannot be interchanged/altered at any circumstances without
prior approval of the competent authority.
15. Hostel administration reserves the right to shift the residents from one room to another room
of the same hostel to maintain discipline at the hostel and campus premises.
16. Do not write your name/roll number/department on the room door because others will use
your room further in the following years.
Signature of Student Signature of Parent/ Guardian
2 of page 4

--- Page 5 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)
17. Arranging any kind of celebration/Parties inside the hostel premises is strictly
prohibited.
18. Playing loud music or any activity which shall disturb the other students are strictly
prohibited within and outside the hostel premises by the students. Playing outdoor
games inside the hostel is strictly prohibited.
19. Hosteller is not allowed to remain absent from the hostel at night time without prior
permission from the Chief Warden/Warden/Asst. Warden of that hostel. If found,
disciplinary action will be initiated with immediate effect. On special cases, if the
boarders want to visit his home, then he/she may take permission from the authority
five days before leaving the hostel through MIS portal.
20. When the boarder is on leave or absent form hostel, he/she can take maximum of 8
days leave from the mess in a month with approval from the hostel authority.
21. No students are allowed to enter into another hostel without prior permission from
Warden (s)/supervisor(s). They must fill up all information in the register and keep
identity card with security personal before entering into another hostel. If any students
are found in another hostel without prior permission, he will be considered as
trespasser and strict disciplinary action will be executed.
22. Entering hostels of opposite gender is strictly prohibited.
23. Entry to the hostels of junior students is not permitted in general. However, in
exigencies the senior student (s) may enter the hostel with prior written permission of
the respective warden/ chief warden.
24. Using roof of any hostel/mess by hosteller/anyone for any reason is strictly prohibited.
25. Boys' hostellers are not allowed to stay outside of the hostel from 10.00 PM to 4.30
AM for any reason except medical issues.
26. Girls' hostellers will be allowed to stay outside the hostel premises only as per the
timely notifications. In case of any medical emergency in odd hours, permission from
the hostel supervisor/warden is mandatory.
27. For the suitable management of the hostel mess during the vacation, the hostellers
having backlog exams may come to the hostel one day before the particular exam and
leave the hostel the next day of the completion of the exam and prior approval from
the competent authority has to be taken in advance for staying in a hostel during the
vacation period.
28. For proper supervision of the regular latecomers at the hostel, a late entry register will
be maintained, and after 3 numbers of late entries against any hosteller, one warning
letter will be issued to him/her. Despite the warning letter, if the student is
Signature of Student Signature of Parent/ Guardian
3 of page 4

--- Page 6 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)
29. Intentional damage to any item in the hostel room/floor/corridor is the liability of the
occupant to get it repaired/replaced. Moreover, damage to hostel property, such as
doors, windows, electrical fittings, toilet fittings, glass panes, lift, cooler, geyser, etc.,
will lead to disciplinary action, and the expense for repairing should be borne by the
student (s) involved.
30. Misuse of water, electricity and other facilities are liable to disciplinary action. The
electrical items should be Switched off when no one is staying in the hostel room or
common rooms of hostels.
31. The hosteller is solely responsible for keeping valuable belongings with him/her. Hostel
administration shall not be liable for loss/damage of such valuable items.
32. Each student residing in the hostel must join in mess attached to it. Individual cooking
in hostels and messing outside are not permitted. Mess rules as notified by the
authority from time to time shall be observed by the boarders.
33. Mess fees must be paid along with the semester hostel fees in advance, as per the
time- to-time notifications.
34. Students' mess activities shall be limited to the allotted space only. The mess shall
function as single integrated unit without any division in any groups or subgroups, and
shall be managed by the students' committee for this purpose under the convenorship
of the warden/ chief warden.
35. Do not waste food in mess. Take all you Want, but Eat all you Take. Food will not be
served before or after the prescribed timing. Sometimes, unintentional delay may
happen to prepare food and get ready in mess by the mess staffs. Keep patience and
obey the mess rule for this occurrence.
36. Student(s) shall be required to make their rooms available whenever required for
inspection, repairs, maintenance or disinfecting and shall vacate the rooms when
leaving for the vacations/holidays.
37. Students shall be responsible for the proper care of the doors, windows, furniture, fan,
and other fittings in the rooms allotted to them and shall generally assist the Warden
in ensuring proper use, care and security of those provided in the hostels of common
use of all students.
38. The inmates of the hostel should not leave the premises on holiday for the purpose of
excursion or picnic without prior intimation to the warden office and subsequent
permission of Chief warden. However, for any incident or fatalities institute will not be
responsible in any means.
39. We are undertaking on this hostel form at our own will and not under any duress,
having fully read and understood the implication of this undertaking regarding hostel
rules.
Signature of Student Signature of Parent/ Guardian
4 of page 4