
--- Page 1 ---
t

Y

 

TSS Wel VAM SAT

" National Institute of Technology Agartala

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC AFFAIRS

No.F. NITA.5/(6-ACAD)/Ph.D/Admn/2025/Jan [A-18.3> Dated- 19/11/2024

NOTIFICATION

Sub:- Notification for admission to Ph.D Programme for January — June 2025 academic

session.

Applications are invited from the eligible candidates for admission to Ph.D Programme
at NIT Agartala for January — June 2025 academic session, in the departments as given below:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SI. No.| DEPARTMENT RESEARCH AREAS

r — ; =
1) Biochemical Engineering: Strain improvement, Plasmid stability, reactor
stability, Upstream and downstream processing, bioreactor design and analysis,
process optimisation and intensification, Modelling and simulation of
bioprocess, Metabolic Engineering, and Scale up.

1. Bio Engineering | 2) Environmental Engineering: Solid and liquid waste management,
environmental Modelling, waste utilisation, resource recovery and circular
economy.

3) Moleeular cell biology and genetics: Cell Biology, Molecular Biology, |:
rDNA technology, Drug discovery and design, Bioinformatics
Chemical Engineering:
Broad Areas of Research:
Environmental Engineering and Sustainability;
Bioprocess and Biosystem Engineering
> Chemical Energy Engineering
. Engineering Advanced Separation Processes and Technology
Material Science and Technology
‘é Fluid Dynamics and Simulation
: Numerical Modeling and Simulation in Chemical Engineering (including
| Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence)
3 Civil Broad area of research for Civil Engineering department will be notified soon.
; Engineering
. 1) Networks:
Service-oriented network architectures; Network protocols and performance
evaluations; Software-defined networking; Wireless sensor networks; Mobile
computing and cognitive radio networks; MANET, VANET, and IoT; Network
threat analysis and prevention; Social sensor networks; Underwater sensor
networks; Cloud computing;
2) Information Systems:
Data management systems; Information storage systems; Information systems
applications; World Wide Web; Information retrieval;
Computer 3) Security and Privacy:
4. Science &| Cryptography; Formal methods and theory of security; Security services;
Engineering Intrusion/anomaly detection and malware mitigation; Security in hardware;
Systems security; Network security; Database and storage security; Software
and application security; Human and societal aspects of security and privacy;
Access control; Blockchain;
4) Computing Methodologies:
Artificial intelligence; Machine learning; Modeling and simulation; Computer
graphics; Distributed computing methodologies; Concurrent computing
methodologies; Natural language processing; Speech processing and language
technology; Knowledge representation and reasoning; Search methodologies;
Philosophical/theoretical foundations of artificial intelligence; Distributed
Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website-www.nita.ac.in Page 1 of 9

 

 

 


--- Page 2 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC AFFAIRS

artificial intelligence; Image processing; Computer vision; Human-centered

computing;
5) Applied Computing:
Computational biology; Consumer health; Health care information systems;
Health informatics; Bioinformatics; Electronic commerce; Enterprise
computing; Computer forensics; Operations research; Document management
and text processing; Emerging nanotechnology; Quantum cellular automata;
1) Power System:
Power Systems, Distributed power generation; Hybrid power system; Energy
conservation; Power system planning under smart grid; Demand response;
Deregulated Power system; Power Quality, Electric Vehicles, Power System
Optimization.
2) Power Electronics and Drives:
Power Quality, Power Electronics and Drives, Multilevel Inverter Topologies,
Harmonic Elimination techniques, Modular Multilevel Converter for HVDC
El . application, Electric Vehicle, Smart Grids, Power Electronics converter,
ectrical : ; :
5. : : integration of renewable energy, energy storage, multilevel converters, PWM
Engineering and control.
3) Instrumentation Engineering:
Opto Electronics Instrumentation; Industrial Instrumentation; Solid State
Lasers; Fiber Optic Sensors; Integrated Photonic Devices; Fiber optics
Communications; Laser & nonlinear optics; Surface Plasmon based sensors &
Devices.
4) Integrated Energy System:
Energy and Renewable Power, Distributed Power Generation, Hybrid Power
System, Energy Conservation, Electric Vehicle, Smart Grids.
1) VLSI Technology:
VLSI Design and Synthesis, VLSI Fabrication & Testing, Hardware
Security, Network on Chip
~ 2) Communication and Microwave Engineering:
Wireless Communication, Wireless sensor network, S5G/ 6G
Communication, Optical Communication, Data communication &
networking, Information theory and Coding, Microwave Devices and
circuits, Microwave Device fabrication, Antenna Design, Computational
Electromagnetics, Microstrip antenna, Metamaterials, Smart Antenna
3) Electronic materials and Device fabrications:
Semiconductor Devices, Nano electronics, Advanced Electronics materials
and devices, Opto-electronics Devices, MEMS, Photovoltaic and sensor
Electronics & devices, Electronic System and IC packaging, Gas Sensing Applications.
4) Signal Processing:
Speech Signal Processing, Video Signal Processing, Image Processing,
RADAR Signal Processing, Bio-medical signal processing, statistical signal
processing,
5) Embedded System and IoT:
Design of Intelligent Systems, System Security, Smart City, Robotics,
Health care
6) Sensors, Instrumentation and Control:
Sensors and transducers, smart and intelligent sensors, Electronic
Instrumentation, bio-instrumentation, Virtual instrumentation, impedance
spectroscopy, control System
7) Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML): :
Deep Learning, Reinforcement learning, Natural Language Processing,
Artificial Neural Network, Computer vision, Recommender System,
Bayesian and statistical machine learning
ti __ |Electronics -&| 1) Optics & Photonics:

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. Communication
Engineering

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website-www.nita.ac.in Page 2 of 9

 


--- Page 3 ---
   

 

sy TST WEN VA ste
=e) Peeters Institute of Technology Agartala

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC AFFAIRS

   

Instrumentation | Optical Communication, Optical sensors, Optical Computing Optoelectronic
Engineering Instrumentation;
2) Flexible and wearable electronics:
loT, Chemical and Bio Sensors ;
3) Instrumentation and control:
Sensors & transducer, Instrumentation and Measurement, Embedded system,
Robotics & Control, Agricultural Electronics;
4) Biomedical Instrumentation:
Medical Signal and Image Processing, Medical Instrumentation and AI in
healthcare.
1) Fluid & Thermal Engineering:
Thermal Science & Engineering, Automobile Engineering, Heat Power, Heat
Transfer, Pool boiling heat transfer, Energy Materials, Fluids & Thermal
Engineering, Cryogenics & Vacuum Technology, Aerospace Engineering,
Computational Mechanics
2) Manufacturing Science & Engineering:
Manufacturing Technology, Production Engineering, Industrial Engineering,
CAD/CAM, Advanced Manufacturing & Design, Additive Manufacturing,
Mechanical Modelling & Characterization, Non Traditional Machining Process, Micro
Engineering Manufacturing, Micro Machining, Metal Casting, MMC, Bio Composites,
ceramic Composites, Computational welding Mechanics, Welding,
Polymer/Metal Additive manufacturing, Ceramic Engineering, Application of
Artificial Neural Network, Soft Computing, Metallurgy, Material Science
3) Machine Design:
Machine Design, Tribology, Fracture Mechanics, Wear &Failure Analysis,
Corrosion, Finite Element Formulation and Modelling, Applied Mechanics,
Vibration Analysis, Rotor Dynamics, Advanced Design System, Robotics &
Mechanism
1) Manufacturing:
# Foundry-Forging, Al alloy based composite materials, Grain refinement,
Manufacturing Technology, Non-traditional machining, Machining
Technology, Casting, Welding.
2) Production Management & Industrial Engineering:
Production Production & Operation Management, Financial Management, Asset
Engineering, management, Plant Maintenance.
3) Machine Design:
Tribology of Bearings, CAD/CAM, Bio Tribology.
4) Soft Computing:
Multi Criteria Decision Making (MCDM), Case Based Reasoning, Decision
Making and Soft Computational Approaches.

 

 

 

 

10.

 

Y

 

 

 

1) Organic Chemistry-

Synthetic Organic Chemistry, Green Chemistry and applications

2) Inorganic Chemistry-

Synthetic Inorganic Chemistry, Organometallic

Chemistry Chemistry, Coordination Chemistry

3) Physical Chemistry-

Physical chemistry, Theoretical and computational Chemistry

4) Material science and Nanoscience-

Synthesis of carbon and metal nanoparticles and their applications

1) Applied Mathematics:

Operation Research; Inventory Control; Transportation Problem; Fuzzy,
Uncertainty Optimization; Optimization; Multi Criteria Decision Making;
Metaheuristics; Waste Recycling; Mathematical Modeling;
Biomathematics;Graph Theory; Quantum Computing

2) Pure Mathematics:

 

Mathematics

 

 

 

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website-www.nita.ac.in Page 3 of 9

 

 


--- Page 4 ---
 

eevatignel institute of Technology Agartala

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC AFFAIRS

| Topology; Mathematics! Modelling; Biomathematics; Fuzzy Mathematics

1) Experimental Condensed Matter Physics; Thin film; Nanotechnology,
Biomedical Sensors for Noninvasive Disease Monitoring; Solar Cell,
Photoelectrochemical Cell, Photodetectors, Low Dimensional
Nanostructures (OD, 1D, 2D);
Growth and Applications in Electronic and Optoelectronic Devices,
Semiconductor Physics, Application of low dimensional materials for green
energy and sustainable environment;

 

 

12.  |Physics Low-Temperature Physics - Magnetism, superconductivity, and strongly
correlated materials; topological materials; thermoelectric materials;
Liquid Crystals;
Experimental study of Sheath Instability during Multiple Double Layer
Formation in Plasma, Experimental study of Self-Organization and
Nonlinear Dynamics of Space Charge Structure Formations in Plasma;
Theoretical Physics, Quantum Field Theory, General Relativity, Classical
Gravity, Space-time Geometry, Cosmology.

[Management 1) Management: Marketing/ General Management
13 Humanities &/2) Social Sciences: Sociology, Economics, Rural Management/ Rural

Social Sciences Development, Commerce

 

 

 

Minimum Qualification for admission to Ph.D programme:-

A)

I.

I.

UI.

Candidates for admission in Ph.D programme in Engineering Departments must
satisfy one of the following criteria:-

Master's Degree in Engineering/ Technology or equivalent in an appropriate area with a
minimum CGPA of 6.5 out of 10 point grading system or equivalent 60% of marks, from
a recognized Institute or University.

B.E./ B,Tech./ B.Pharm or similar discipline graduates, from an Institute/ University with
average NIRF ranking of within 100 (Engineering category) over last 3 years, and
Institutes of National Importance, with academic record as 70% or 7.5 CGPA in a 10
point scale, can be considered for direct admission in PhD programme. Such candidates
must have valid GATE/ NET score card tenable for the year of admission.

Master's Degree in relevant science discipline with a good academic record and of
exceptional merit are eligible for relevant engineering discipline with minimum CGPA
of 6.5 out of 10 point grading system or more or at least 60% of marks, from a
recognized Institute or University. However, for availing scholarship of MHRD (now
MoE), GATE score is mandatory.

Categories of Scholars under Section- A

1. Full-time with scholarship: Candidates under this category will be eligible for
fellowship as per MHRD (now MoE) Institute norms. GATE score is a mandatory
criterion for this category of scholars for making themselves eligible for receiving
scholarship during the tenure of Ph.D.

Fellowship will be awarded to the scholars who are admitted under this category
subject to the availability as stipulated by MHRD (now MoE). The award and/ or
renewal of the fellowship will be as per the guidelines issued by MoE and the
Institute, from time to time.

 

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website-www.nita.ac.in Page 4 of 9

 

 


--- Page 5 ---
 

B)

I.

Ill.

TATA Weal Va STAT
* National Institute of Technology Agartala

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC AFFAIRS

2. Full time self-financed scholars: Candidate selected for admission under this
category will not be entitled for any scholarship from Institute. GATE score is not a
mandatory criterion for this category. However, eligibility norms are essential as per
section A(J) of this notification.

*** Conversion of CGPA to percentage and vice-versa will not be allowed.

Admission to Ph.D programme in Science Departments must satisfy one of the
following criteria:-

Master's degree in Sciences with a good academic record and with a minimum of 65%
marks (or equivalent or 6.5 CGPA in a 10 point grading system) or 60% of marks (6.0
CGPA out of 10 point grading system) with a GATE score or UGC/CSIR-NET/NBHM
tenable for the year of admission. Preference will be given to GATE/NET qualified
candidates.

Master's degree in Engineering/Technology or equivalent is eligible with a good
academic record with a minimum CGPA of 6.5 out of 10 point grading system or
equivalent or 65% of marks. Preference will be given to GATE qualified candidates.
B.E./ B.Tech./ B.Pharm or similar discipline graduates, from an Institute/ University with
average NIRF ranking of within 100 (Engineering category) over last 3 years, and
Institutes of National Importance, with academic record as 70% or 7.5 CGPA in a 10
point scale, can be considered for direct admission in PhD programme. Such candidates
must have valid GATE/ NET score card tenable for the year of admission.

Candidates admitted in science departments with eligibility criteria mentioned in B (I to
Il) are eligible for Institute scholarship under Full-time with scholarship category
based on availability and decisions of competent authority from time to time. The award
and/ or renewal of the fellowship will be as per the guidelines issued from time to time.

*** Conversion of CGPA to percentage and vice-versa will not be allowed.

C).

D)

VY

Admission to Ph.D programme in Humanities & Social Sciences under the
Department of Management, Humanities & Social Sciences:-

Scholars for admission to the Ph.D. program in Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS)
must have a Masters degree in relevant discipline with a minimum of 65% marks or
equivalent or 6.5 CGPA in a 10 point grading system or 60% or 6.0 CGPA in a 10 point
scale with a UGC/CSIR-NET/NBHM tenable for the year of admission. The relevant
discipline of research will include English; Economics; Commerce; Finance; Foreign
Trade; Business Management; Geography; Rural Management & Development;
Sociology and others as per requirement of the Department, which will be notified from
time to time. Preference will be given to NET qualified candidates.

Admission to Ph.D programme in Management under the Department of
Management, Humanities & Social Sciences:-

MBA/P.G. Diploma in Management of 2-year duration with 60% marks or a CGPA of
6.5 in 10 point scale. 60% or a CGPA of 6.5 in 10 point scale (55% or 6.0 CGPA with

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website-www.nita.ac.in Page 5 of 9

 

 


--- Page 6 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC AFFAIRS

NET) in Masters degree programme for Humanities and Social Sciences. Preference will
be given to GATE / NET qualified candidates.

» Candidates admitted in MHSS Department for Ph.D programme under Full-time with
scholarship category will be eligible for Institute scholarship, based on availability
and decisions of competent authority from time to time. The eligibility condition for
Scholarship/ Fellowship for candidates having MBA degree is 70% marks. The award
and/ or renewal of the fellowship will be as per the guidelines issued from time to
time.

*** Conversion of CGPA to percentage and vice-versa will not be allowed.

>

Institute Employees/Research Scholars under External Registration/ Research
scholars under part-time category.

For Research Scholars of this categories, the minimum educational qualifications are the
same as prescribed in A to D above for admission to the Ph.D. program in the respective
categories. However, GATE score or CSIR/ UGC JRF or Lectureship/ NBHM/ JMET/
CAT/ AIMA or equivalent qualification as applicable for regular full time research
scholars may not be required in these cases.

*** For SC/ ST/ Physically challenged or differently abled candidates, a relaxation of 0.5

>

CGPA (in a 10 point scale) or 5% is allowed.

Admission to Ph.D programme for foreign scholars:-

Foreign nationals can only register as regular full-time scholars. F oreign nationals with
degrée from Indian Universities will be treated at par with Indian nationals for admission
purposes. Foreign nationals with foreign degrees must meet the minimum educational
requirements as given in A to D above and equivalent to an Indian Master's degree in the
relevant disciplines. In addition, they should have a valid GRE/ GMAT /GATE /JMET/
CAT/ XAT/ MAT/ ATMA/ UGC or CSIR/NET and a score in TOEFL/ IELTS or
equivalent examination. This category of scholars are not eligible for any financial
assistance from the Institute during the entire tenure of the Ph.D programme.

Important note

(a) Reservation policy will be followed as per Govt. of India norms.

(b) Scholars admitted under Full time self-financed, Part-time, Institute Staff, Full-
time Sponsored and External Registration categories will not be eligible for
any financial assistance from the Institute during the entire period of Ph.D

 

 

programme.
(c) Availability of seats for January-June 2025 Academic Session:
Seat Category OP OBC-NCL | SC ST | OPEWS | PH
| Availability fun V | 2a

 

 

Instructions for Applicants (for online application)

All applicants must apply online https://admission.nita.ac.in/

The portal is compatible to Mozilla Firefox. Candidates are advised to use Mozilla Firefox
browser only..

o

 

 

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website-www.nita.ac.in Page 6 of 9

 


--- Page 7 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC AFFAIRS

 

e Candidates may apply in multiple departments. In such case, separate registration and
application fee is required for each department.

e After registration, Application ID (to be used as login name) with Password will be sent to
the email ID provided by the applicant.

e Using the login credential, applicants must login to the Admission Portal for form filling.

e Application fees must be paid online only in the payment portal through the above
mentioned link.

e Candidates must wait for the payment confirmation message. If not received, may
email to nitmisagt@gmail.com.

e After completion and submission of the online form, filled in form in PDF format will be
generated.

e On the day of online test, the provisionally shortlisted candidates should bring a printed
copy of the on-line filled-in form along with all the original of the necessary documents
(to support all educational qualification, date of birth, category, GATE/NET score etc.)
and a set of photocopy of all such documents, duly self-attested.

Documents to be uploaded (Scanned Original) in respective fields in portal:
(Documents having multiple pages are to be scanned into a single pdf and then upload)

Proof of date of birth.

Photo id proof, as per guidelines of Gol.
Mark sheet(s) of all semesters of Bachelor’s degree.

Marksheets of all semesters of Master’s Degree.

Pass Certificate of Master’s Degree.
GATE/ N€&T etc. score card (if and whichever applicable). Fellowship will not be
considered if required score card is not uploaded under applicable categories mentioned
above.

Migration Certificate issued by the Institution last attended.

Conduct/Character Certificate issued by the Institution last attended.

9. Recent colour’ photograph as per specifications (strictly formal photograph, preferably
_  white/sky blue background).

10. Proof of publication along with details in Annexure-A (if any). A maximum of 15 marks

will be considered based on the indexing of the paper.

11. SC/ST/PwD/OBC-NCL/EWS certificate (if and whichever applicable).
The OBC-NCL/ EWS certificatemust be issued by Competent Authority on or
after 01/04/2024. Admission under PwD category will be based on_ the
recommendation of Medical Board of NIT Agartala.

Awe YN.

oN

Important Note:

e Migration Certificate and Conduct/ Character Certificate are mandatory during
provisional admission.

e Full-time Sponsored and Part time candidates including Institute Staff must submit
Sponsorship and No-Objection certificate, as the case may be, in prescribed format,
without which there will be no admission (formats attached).

e Candidate should apply for Ph.D. program through online mode only. Requisite non-
refundable application fee to the extent of Rs. 500/- for OP/OBC-NCL/EWS candidates

o

 

y Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website-www.nita.ac.in Page 7 of 9

 


--- Page 8 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala

ng OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC AFFAIRS

and Rs. 300/- for SC/ST/PwD candidates has to be submitted online payment portal only.
Offline hand written, or printed application will not be entertained.

Incomplete application will be summarily rejected. Applications may be rejected if
the requisite documents (clearly visible) as mentioned above is not uploaded.
Admission category (Full-time with scholarship, Full-time self-financed, Part-time
scholar etc. categories) for which a candidate is willing to take admission in Ph.D
programme mentioned in the application form may not be allowed to change/ convert to
any other category at later stage of selection, once final submission of online application is
submitted.

NIT Agartala will not be responsible for any failure on the part of the candidates in
making payment of application fee online or any other reasons.

Selection Procedure:-

On submission of online application the candidates fulfilling eligibility conditions as per

section A to D may be provisionally short-listed by the respective department. The provisionally
short-listed candidates will be required to appear for the online test (30 marks) to be conducted
by the Institute. The online test will comprise of MCQ type questions, covering the UG level

and

PG level (specialization wise). The candidates qualifying the online test will be allowed to

appear for interview. Provisional selection may be made strictly on the basis of academic
performance of the candidates, publication and availability of seats.

» Admission and Academic fees will be displayed on the Institute website at appropriate time.

S

~ For all hostel related matters, candidates may contact the Office of the Chief Warden.

Important Dates

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SL. no. EVENT DATE DAY
1 Start of online application with fee 18/11/2024 Wonday
payment
> Last date of online payment (non- 02/12/2024 Monday
refundable) «
“4 Last date for submission of online 04/12/2024 Wedisisday
application
4 Publication of short listed candidates 06/12/2024 Feiday
for written / online test
5 Written/online Test and/or Interview 13/12/2024 Friday
6 Publication of short listed candidates 0/12/2024 Friday
for provisional admission (Tentatively)
7 | Payment of seat confirmation fee 27/12/2024 to 05/01/2025 mney to
Sunday
oo. a . 06/01/2025 to 08/01/2025 Monday to
Provisional admission on Physical or
8 ecmiuae (reporting time between Wednesday
| P 9.30 am to 12.30 pm) (except holiday)
9 Commencement of classes 09/01/2025 Thorsaay
(Tentetively)
e No request for extension/ change of dates and modes will be entertained. YY
Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website-www.nita.ac.in Page 8 of 9

 

 


--- Page 9 ---
- National Institute of Technology Agartala

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC AFFAIRS

 

NB- Full-time Sponsored and Part time candidates including institute staff must submit
Sponsorship and No-Objection certificate as the case may be in prescribed format
without which there will be no admission.

 

 

GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS:

hb

Seats may be increased or decreased with the approval of the Authority.

2. The Institute reserves the right to cancel the candidature without assigning any reason
thereof.

3. The prescribed qualifications are minimum and mere possession of the same does not
entitle candidates to be called for written test and/ or interview.

4. Candidates must produce all original documents during verification, as per date notified by
NITA.

5. Candidates facing any issue regarding filling online application or payment of fees,

may write to help.phdadmnnita@gmail.com. The email id will remain activated till

the completion of the Ph. D admission process. For any technical issues, candidates

may also write to nitmisagt@gmail.com.

** Candidates are advised to visit the Institute website regularly for any updates.

This is issued with the approval of Competent Authority. Yé \
u
As”.
(Prof. vat Ena)

Dean (Academic)
Copy to:
PS to the Director, NITA for kind information of the Director.
All Deans, for kind information.
The Registrar, NITA, for kind information.
All Head of Academic Departments, for kind information and necessary action.
Faculty In-charge, MIS, for kind information and necessary action.
Asso. Dean,(PG), NITA, for kind information and necessary action.
System Administrator, NITA, with a request to upload the same in the Institute

website.
Vasae

Dean (Academic)
NIT Agartala

Se

”

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website-www.nita.ac.in Page 9 of 9

 

 


--- Page 10 ---
 

ANNEXURE - A
PUBLICATION DETAILS

NAME OF THE APPLICANT:

APPLICATION IN THE DEPARTMENT:

Details of the publications:
S.N | Publication Title of the Paper Author name | Journal | Indexed in (SCI/| Vol | Issue | ISSN | Year | Pages

Type Name SCOPUS/ Others) | No. | No. No.

(SCI/SCIE/SSC
1/Scopus
indexed journal
Conference) _ -

 

 

 

Signature of the Applicant

Page 1 of 1


--- Page 11 ---
Sponsorship Letter

Form NITA/ACAD/Ph.D./1(A)

(This should be typed on the letter head of the sponsoring organization)

Reference No.
Date:

To
The Director
National Institute of Technology, Agartala.

Sub: Sponsoring an Employee for Ph.D. Programme as a full-time scholar.
Dear Sir,

We hereby sponsor the candidature of Mr./ Mrs./ Ms.
who is an employee in our organization, for joining Ph.D.
programme in the Department of at your institute

as a full-time student.

It is certified that he/ she has completed 2 (two) years of continuous service in our
organization/ institute as a regular employee, after completion of qualifying

degree, required for admission in Ph.D programme.

We shall relieve him/ her from his/ her duties in the organization during the first

three years of the Ph.D. Programme.

Signature and Seal of the Sponsoring Authority.

«

 


--- Page 12 ---
ad

Form_NITA/ACAD/Ph.D./1(B)
(This should be typed on the letter head of the sponsoring organization)

Reference No.
Date:

To,
The Director
National Institute of Technology, Agartala.

Sub: No-Objection Certificate for admission in Ph.D programme as a part-
time Scholar.

Dear Sir,
We have no objection if Mr./ Mrs./ Ms.

an employee in our organization, is admitted to the Ph.D.
Programme in the Department of at your

institute as a PART-TIME student.
It is certified that he/she has completed 2 (two) years of continuous service in our
organization/ institute as a regular employee, after completion of qualifying

degree, required for admission in Ph.D programme.

We shall grant him/ her leave of absence to attend classes/research works at NIT

Agartala during the Ph.D. Programme.

Signature and Seal of the Sponsoring Authority.

 
