
--- Page 1 ---
raYT/Iya |ÉaoooOVaooigakI saMsqaana Agartlaa
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala – 799046 (Tripura) Website: www.nita.ac.in
No. F. NITA.7(1-LIB) Estt. /2023 / 3580 Date: 12/09/2023
Applications are invited for Library Professional Trainee (Fixed Period Internship) at NIT Agartala
The Central Library of National Institute of Technology Agartala (an Institute of National Importance)
is looking for young, dynamic, tech-savvy, highly motivated, and committed fresh Post-Graduates in
Library & Information Science from recognized Indian Universities with consistently good academic
records to serve as Library Professional Trainee (Fixed Period Internship).
Sl. No. Particulars Details
1 Name of the Position Library Professional Trainee (Fixed Period
Internship)
2 Number of Positions 03 (Three)
3 Stipend Rs. 20,000/- Per Month (Fixed)
Rupees Twenty Thousands per month only (Fixed)
4 Age Limit Not exceeding 27 years (As on the last date of the
Application).
5 Last Date of Application 25/09/2023
Duration: The maximum period of Library Trainee position will be for 12 Months (from date of
joining) only. (The term may be extended to another 12 months based on the performance and
requirements of the Institute). Training can be terminated with one month’s notice in writing given by
either side. The training tenure cannot be extended beyond two years. Trainee may avail upto 30 days
holidays in a year but not more than 7 days in a spell.
Essential Qualifications: First Division in Master of Library and Information Science (MLISc) or
equivalent from recognized Indian universities. The applicant must have passed MLIS or equivalent
examination in the year 2022 or 2023. However, those expecting the results before the written exam
and interview date may also apply but must produce the final marks sheet of MLIS at the time of the
written exam and interview, in proof of having passed the examination with First Division. Candidates
who passed the MLIS or equivalent examination before 2022 need not apply.
Essential Skills Requirement: Working Knowledge of Computer Applications and Library
Management/Digital Library Software.
Responsibilities: All the works associated with the library. The candidate is also expected to work on
shifts including night shift. The trainee is required to work six days a week and on holidays as well on
rotation basis.
Selection: The selection of the candidate will be based on a written test followed by a personal
interview. Interested candidates who fulfill above mentioned criteria may submit their application
online at the below link on or before 25th September 2023.
https://forms.gle/5KZ4ycLMhjUYz7Vb8

--- Page 2 ---
Important Dates:
Last Date of receiving application : 25th September 2023.
Notification of shortlisted candidates : 29th September 2023. (Through e-mail only)
Date of Written Exam and Interview : 13th October 2023. (Reporting Time 10.00 A.M.)
Venue: Central Library, NIT Agartala
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
1. All eligible candidates are required to bring filled-in Application form along with recent passport
size photograph. All originals documents and a set of self-attested copy of marksheets and certificates
are to be produced at the time of interview.
2. No candidate may be entertained if, he/she reports after the above-mentioned timing of the
reporting.
3. The fixed period internship listed above is a purely temporary and for 12 months only.
4. The fixed period internship is open to eligible persons from all caste and categories to apply.
5. Institute reserves the right to fill up the internship position, not to fill up the internship position or
cancel the advertisement in whole or partly without assigning any reason. The Institute will also
reserve the right to reasonably limit on the total number of candidates to be called for Test/Interview.
The decision of the Institute in this regard will be final.
6. No correspondence whatsoever will be entertained from candidates regarding the conduct and result
of written test and interview and reasons for not being called for the same.
7. No TA/DA shall be paid to candidates for attending the written test and interview.
8. Please note that this is a purely temporary arrangement for trainee and appearance in test/interview
and selection thereafter, will not entitle the candidate for any claim whatsoever or permanency on the
regular establishment of NIT Agartala.
9. Selected candidates shall not have claim on any regular position and shall not bestow any of the
privileges like housing, medical facilities and other benefits available to regular employees of the
Institute.
10. A certificate of experience will be issued to those who complete the twelve months of internship
training.
Registrar