
--- Page 1 ---
 

oe en Jirania, Tripura, India, Pin -799046

Advt. No.: F.NITA.11(42-ME) /DST-SERB-CRG/Project/JREF/2023

TESTA UINRTaT HA Bede

National Institute of Technology, Agartala

-24 Dated:3% |] /2023

  

Recruitment of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) and Project Assistant for the research project funded
by Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science &Technology (DST),
Government of India, under the scheme Core Research Grant (CRG)

Applications are invited for the post of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) and Project Assistant
under the sponsored research project. The details of the project and the post for recruitment are

given below:

Title of the Project

Funding Agency

Project duration

Principal Investigator

Monthly Emolument

Essential Qualifications

Development analysis and feasibility study of aluminium alloy-
air battery for powering electric vehicles

Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of
Science &Technology (DST), Government of India, under the
scheme Core Research Grant (CRG)

Initial appointment will be for one year, which is extendable up
to the duration of the project (about 3 years) solely based on the
performance.

Dr. Ajay Biswas

Assistant Professor

Mechanical Engineering Department

NIT Agartala

For JRF: Consolidated amount of Rs.31,000/- per month for
first 02 years and Rs.35,000/- month for the third year

For Project Assistant: Consolidated amount of Rs.20,000/- per
month up to the duration of the project (about 3 years) solely
based on performance.

1. For JRF: ME/M. Tech in Manufacturing Technology
or relevant / Materials Science & Engineering / Power
Electronics / Masters’ degree in Physics or other
relevant subjects (with consistently good academic record
and a minimum of 60% marks or an equivalent CGPA in
the Master’s degree or first division as defined by the
awarding Institute/ University) from recognized
Universities/Institutes, with CSIR/UGC-NET (Equivalent
qualification/fellowship) or valid GATE score. Desirable:
knowledge / experience in chemical synthesis, electro
physics, electrochemistry and fuel cell will be
preferred. Age limit: 28 years on the date of application,
with relaxation to SC/ST/OBC candidates as per
Government of India norms.

2. For Project Assistant: B.Sc. in Physics or other relevant
subjects / Three years Diploma in Mechanical or
relevant Engineering and Technology after 12"
Science with consistently good academic record and a
minimum of 60% marks or an equivalent grade or first
division as defined by the awarding Institute /
University). Desirable: knowledge / experience in
chemical synthesis, electro physics, electrochemistry
and fuel cell will be preferred.. Age limit: 28 years on
the date of application, with relaxation to SC/ST/OBC
candidates as per Government of India norms.


--- Page 2 ---
Description of responsibilities : JRF:

The primary role of the Junior Research Fellow (JRF) is
to assist in research activities under the guidance of the
Principal Investigator (PI) or the Co- Principal
Investigator. The JRF has to assist the PI and Co-PI in all
respect regarding execution and successful completion of
the project in connection with planning, estimating of
tools and equipments etc. procurement, installation,
erection, commissioning, fabrication and setting up of
experimental set up, experimentations, analysis, data
collection, data analysis, finding outcomes, publications,
conferences, seminars, all documentations of fund
utilization viz. preparation of reports and returns etc. and
all related works to be assigned time to time.

Project Assistant:

The primary role of the Project Assistant is to assist the
PI, Co-PI, and JRF in all respect regarding execution and
successful completion of the project in connection with
planning, estimating, tools and equipments etc.
procurement, installation, erection, commissioning,
fabrication and setting up of experimental set up,
experimentations, data collection, conferences, seminars,
all documentations of fund utilization viz. preparation of
reports and returns ete. and all related works to be
assigned time to time.

Date of Interview (Walk-in Date: 12.12.2023 (tentative)
interview online / offline) » Mode of interview: online / offline depending on the
suitability.
How to Apply

Interested candidates are requested to submit the attached application format duly filled in with detailed
CV and scanned copy of all documents. All the attachments are to be converted into a single pdf file (size
10 MB max.) named <applicant’s name> _ <JRF/PA application for SERB > and send to Dr. Ajay
Biswas, Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering Department, NIT Agartala, via e-mail:
ajaybiswasnita@gmail.com with the subject line “JRF/PA application for SERB Project 2023” latest
by December 05, 2023.

Note: CV should include details of academic grades starting from X standard onwards with details of the
year of passing, university or institute, etc. and also work experience and nature of work if applicable.
Complete details of CSIR/UGC-NET (Equivalent qualification/fellowship) or valid GATE score such as
year of passing/validity, discipline, marks, All India Rank and number of candidates appeared should be
mentioned in the CV (for JRF position). Incomplete applications will be rejected.

Only shortlisted candidates will be called for the interview (via online / offline depending on the
suitability). Shortlisted candidates will be intimated by e-mail about the final date of interview. No
TA/DA will be paid for appearing for the interview. Documents in support of educational qualifications,
and experience certificates as applicable must be produced at the time of selection process.

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in


--- Page 3 ---
os

28 TR ET © fy (TT SE sd ees

Terms and Conditions:

The position is purely on temporary basis and will be governed by the Administrative rules,

conditions imposed by Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Agartala.

1.

10.

1:

12.

Candidates before appearing for the interview shall ensure that they are eligible for
the position they intend to apply.

Interested candidate should send their filled application including photograph and
signed scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications and a statement
of interest on or before 30.11.2023.

The application should be sent through e-mail at ajaybiswasnita@gmail.com.

The project duration is 03 years. Initial appointment for the position will be for one
year, which is extendable up to the duration of the project (about 3 years) solely based
on performance.

No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of
selection. Institute reserves the right to cancel the process at any point of time without
assigning any reason.

Candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and
experience certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification.

Appointment will be temporary in nature and as per the Institute terms and
conditions.

Only shortlisted candidates will be informed through email provided in the
application form for interview, upon selection engagement letter will be sent through
the email.

The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information, documents
and photographs submitted.

The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason.

The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register for PhD.
program under the Department of Mechanical Engineering. National Institute of
Technology Agartala. However, for admission to PhD program, the candidate must
meet certain eligibility requirements as per the Ph.D. rules 2018 of NIT Agartala
(https://www.nita.ac.in/uploaded_files/Rules_PhD_2018.pdf).

The temporary engagement can be terminated without assigning any reason.
Sd/

Dean(R&C)
NIT Agartala

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in

eS SST TT ee DEE Ey eae ry EEE See eeeeerser ee mee re il

9 Ete ee ee

St aS mr SCR RSS SP aN ART ETE eT OTE

Sear we


--- Page 4 ---
SSR ESS PSPS SI Se SER SU SS A Si sp. SSS TS Sere pS

EAS, ma ESR pn aR LSP STE

 

c + c, * _
wee TTS Tener ees aera
Ge eS National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Jirania,Tripura, India, Pin —799046

 

 

APPLICATION FORM
—EE=————————E—————S Recent passport
size color
Application for the POSt OF cisjsixissavasvivacsaiasbeandennsoneesnneraneenennunnntionnens photography
affixed
Advt. NO. ....ccececceseeceeeeesenee ees Dated tas: cor waveereunees

1 Name of the Applicant

2 Father’s/Husband’s Name

3 Nationality

4 Date of Birth

5 Category (SC/ST/OBC/GEN/EWS)
6 Gender (Male/Female)

i Marital Status

8 NET Qualified (Yes/No)

9 GATE Qualified (Yes/No)

10 Title of the project undertaken in
M.Tech /M.Sc./B.Tech

11 Research Experience (If any) (Attached
Certificate)

12. Aadhar No. (attach copy of Aadhar
Card)

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in

:
EEDA

 

SseeemeraiNTES een ee Sins a = Rates omaanemaaam saa . ein crane

ET ET RR EES RGN

SoS mF RN SRS Tas oa onc

on npiee a aie ncumees say eee Fee

murTaEe} EEE RE

TEN oa ree


--- Page 5 ---
ESP ESSERE EP SPE FEES SESS EEE SEES IT

SRS SSYY POSES SELEY ESD TMD

CT RSS TAS VEE

jer ST UNREST

5 cee mie aro ia RRO

coccinea

geeenec:

14. Educational Qualification (Higher School onwards) (Attached Certificate) :

Exam Passed Year of Board/ University Subjects Percentageof
passing marks

  

      

 

15. List of SCI Journal:
16. List of Scopus Journal:
17. List of Conference Paper:

18. Book/Book Chapter/Patent:

UNDERTAKING

I hereby declare that all the information furnished above is true, correct and complete to the best of
my knowledge and belief.

Signature of the Candidate

 

Date? sisciasseeesgsssans
PIACEE ose caseensionsses
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in

erent tm son a

rarems

RR 2 pT EEE SC SA SU TEENA TET CHEST

ET SE WS EE ST PE SE EE ET EEE TEE FD ONY BPI PAE Et TT SST LNT

EEE SERPS
