
--- Page 1 ---
GUIDELINES FOR
AICTE YASHASVI (YOUNG
ACHIEVERS’ SCHOLARSHIP AND
HOLISTIC ACADEMIC SKILLS
VENTURE INITIATIVE) SCHEME
2024-25

--- Page 2 ---
AICTEYASHASVI(YOUNGACHIEVERS’SCHOLARSHIP AND HOLISTIC ACADEMIC SKILLS
VENTURE INITIATIVE) SCHEME GUIDELINES 2024
1.0 OBJECTIVE OF THE SCHEME:
The field of higher education is currently undergoing a transformative phase in order to adapt to global
trends. The National Education Policy (NEP) of 2020 serves as a guiding light for this transformative
journey. It is needless to mention that the core branches of engineering play a pivotal role in the growth of
manufacturing industries. In order to motivate students to pursue engineering education at Diploma and UG
level in the core branches of engineering, AICTE has formulated a scholarship scheme for meritorious students
seeking admission in core branches of Engineering. Scheme being implemented by AICTE aims for
encouraging student to pursue technical education in all core branches of Engineering/Technology i.e. Civil
Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Electronics & Communication Engineering,
Mechanical Engineering, Agriculture Engineering, Textile Technology in AICTE approved technical
institutions.
1.1 Year of Commencement: Academic Year 2024-25
2.0 ELIGIBILITY FOR SCHOLARSHIP:
1) The candidate should be admitted to First year of Degree/ Diploma level course in any of the
AICTE approved institutions of respective year.
OR
Second year of Degree/Diploma Level course through lateral entry in any of the AICTE
Approved Institute of respective year.
2) Family Income from all sources should not be more than Rs. 8 Lakh per annum during the current
financial year. A valid income certificate issued by State/UT Government need to enclose.
3.0 NUMBER OF SCHOLARSHIPS:
1) A total of 5,200 scholarships (2,593 for degree courses and 2,607 for diploma courses) are
earmarked per annum under this scheme for students pursuing First year of Degree/Diploma level
engineering course in any of the AICTE approved Institutions.
2) State/Union Territory wise distribution of 5,200 scholarships (2,593 for degree coursesand2,607 for
diplomacourses) is as per Annexure-A.
4.0 AMOUNT OF SCHOLARSHIP:
A) Degree Level Students
i. Amount of Scholarship Rs. 50,000/- per annum for every year of study i.e. maximum for 4 years for
first year admitted students and 3 years for Lateral Entry Students.
B) Diploma Level Students
i. Amount of Scholarship Rs. 30,000/- per annum for every year of study i.e. maximum 3 years for first
year admitted students and 2 years for Lateral Entry Students.
5.0 MODE OF PAYMENT:
After selection, the awardee will be paid scholarship through DBT mode on annual basis.

--- Page 3 ---
6.0 PROCEDURE FOR APPLYING:
1) The candidate fulfilling the eligibility conditions is required to apply online on AICTE Scholarship
Portal. Details available on AICTE website.
2) The host institution where the candidate is studying, required to verify the online application.
3) AICTE will verify these applications as second level of scrutiny.
7.0 CRITERIA OF SELECTION:
Degree Level Students:
1. The selection of candidate will be carried out solely on the basis of the merit of qualifying
examination (12th grade) to pursue the Technical Degree Core branch of Engineering from any of
the AICTE approved institutions.
2. Selection of candidates under lateral entry will be on the basis of average consolidated percentage
of Marks in all 6 semesters of Diploma. Limited to 10% of total seats allocation in respective
states.
3. In case the number of allotted scholarships in any state is below 10 as per the calculation,
minimum 10 number of scholarships will be allotted in that State/UT.
4. State/UT wise merit list will be prepared as per number of scholarships allotted in the point
number 3.0 above.
Diploma Level Students:
1) The selection of candidate will be carried out solely on the basis of the merit of qualifying
qualification (10th grade) to pursue the technical Diploma core branch of engineering from any of
the AICTE approved institutions.
2) In case the number of allotted scholarships in any state is below 10 as per the calculation,
minimum 10 number of scholarships will be allotted in that State/UT.
3) State/UT wise merit list will be prepared as per number of scholarships allotted in the point
number 3.0 above.
Note: - In case any of seats remains unoccupied in lateral entry quota then seats may be allocated to
open category or vice versa.
8.0 METHODS OF RESOLVING TIES:
The procedure to be adopted for breaking ties (similar percentiles) shall be as under:
Degree Level Students:
 Percentage of Marks in 12th Examination: In case qualifying examination percentile does not
break ties, then higher percentage of marks in 10th examination will be ranked higher.
 In case 10th examination percentile does not break ties, then the candidate of elder age will be
ranked higher.
Diploma Level Students:
 Percentage of Marks in 10th Examination: In case 10th examination percentile does not break ties,
then the candidate of elder age will be ranked higher.
9.0 RESERVATION:
As per Government of India norms.

--- Page 4 ---
RENEWALS:
1) The scholarship will be renewed for the next year of study on receipt of renewal by submitting
passing certificate/ mark sheet along with letter from the Head of the Institution on the online
portal.
2) Student failing to get promoted to the next class/ level would forfeit the scholarship.
11.0 TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
1) The gap period between the year of passing the qualifying examination and the session of
admission in degree/ diploma course should not be more than two years.
2) Applications will be invited once in a year through AICTE Scholarship Portal.
3) If a student is in reserved category and also qualified in General Category merit listof
scholarship, then he/she will be counted under the General Category.
4) Incomplete applications will be summarily rejected. Only verified online applications will be
considered for the award of scholarship.
5) If a candidate drops out in subsequent year, he/she will not be eligible for further scholarship.
6) Since the scholarship is meant for core engineering branches, if a candidate shifts to any other
branch from aforesaid programmes in any subsequent year, he/shewill not be eligible for
scholarship and will have to refund entire amount of scholarship to AICTE by Demand Draft
drawninfavourof“MemberSecretary,AICTE”payableatNewDelhi.
7) The grant of scholarship is subject to the condition that the student does not receive any
financial assistance in shape of scholarship/any emoluments, salary, stipend etc. from any other
source during his/her course of study in the Institute. In case of receiptof any financial
assistance from any other sources, the scholarship shall be discontinued and the entire amount
of scholarship will have to be refunded to AICTEby D/Draft drawn in favour of “Member
Secretary,AICTE”payableatNewDelhi.
8) Scheme will be implemented and monitored by the AICTE.
9) For converting Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) to percentage, multiplying factor will
be 9.5 i.e. to convert the CGPA into percentage; CGPA X 9.5 will give thepercentage.
10) In case both CGPA & total marks are given in the mark sheet, total marks will be considered
11) If grades are given like A1, A2, B1, B2 etc. in the mark sheet, first the grades will beconverted
into CGPA and then average CGPA will be calculated. This CGPA will beconverted into
percentage as given in point No. 9.
12) Provisional list of shortlisted candidates will be uploaded on the AICTE web portal.In case,
candidate has any query about merit list of scholarship, they may raise their grievances within a
month. No query regarding merit list will be entertained after one-month duration from the date
of publishing of merit list on AICTE website.
13) Query regarding non-payment of the scholarship due to invalid/ wrong account numberwill be
entertained only up to six months from the date of publishing of merit list on AICTE website.