
--- Page 1 ---
US WelPrat GAM See
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

OFTICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC

nitadeanacademic@email.com
No. NITA.5/(22-Acad)/Registration Fee(UG,PG,Ph.D¥/2024-25(Vol-[X) /PR-19 34

 

       

Date: .. 14./04/2025

NOTICE

All on-roll students of NIT Agartala are instructed to upload their APAAR ID in their MIS account, in
case they have not done so, within 20" April 2025, and report to their faculty advisor for verification and
approval. In case a student finds that a faculty advisor is not assigned to him/ her in the MIS or the Faculty does

not find the name of the student, the matter can be reported to the MIS.

2. The students who have not uploaded their APAARID’s may follow the following steps:
Login Mis Account-> Academic’? Admission Upload Document

3. The students who have uploaded their APAAR ID numbers earlier, but the same is not reflected in the student
update information page (Academic>Admission> Update information), should report to their faculty

advisors for verification and approval.

4, All the faculty advisors are requested to verify the APAARIDs uploaded by their students, by 30" April 2025,
through the following link:
Login Mis Account> Academic> Admission->APAARID Approval

For any queries, please contact the MIS Section. /

Dean (Academic)
NIT Agartala
Copy to:-
1. PS to the Director, NITA, for kind information of the Director.
The Registrar, NIT Agartala for kind information,
All HODs and W/S, for kind information and necessary action.
The Asso, Dean (Exam), for kind information.
The Asso, Dean (UG), for kind information.
1* year Co-ordinator for kind information and necessary action.
The Dy. Registrar(Academic) for kind information and necessary action
The Asstt. Registrar(Academic) for kind information and necessary action
9. The Faculty-In-Charge, MIS, for kind information & necessary action.
10. The System Administrator for kind information with a request to upload the notice in the Institute website.
11. Notice Board

Srna wh

lah
Dean (Academic)
NIT Agartala

 

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala, Tripura-799046, India, website- www.nita.ac.in
