
--- Page 1 ---
ABOUT THE INSTITUTION
CHIEF PATRON
Established in 1965 as Tripura Engineering College.
Prof. S. K. Patra
Later, the Government of India converted the Tripura
Director
Engineering College to National Institute of Technology
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala on 1st April 2006. NIT Agartala is an Institute of
National Importance was instituted by Government of PATRON One Week Karyashala
India with the mission to herald excellence in technical
Assoc. Prof. R.N. Ray (High-End Workshop)
education and research in the North-East region. NIT
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Agartala offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and (13th March to 19th March 2024)
National Institute of Technology Agartala
doctoral programs in various fields of engineering,
on
science, humanities, and management. The institute is
COORDINATOR
renowned for its academic excellence, research “Blockchain Technology Applications
Dr. Shailendra Singh
initiatives, and industry collaborations. NIT Agartala
in Electrical Energy System”
Assistant Professor
boasts state-of-the-art infrastructure, well-equipped
Department of Electrical Engineering
laboratories, and a conducive learning environment.
National Institute of Technology Agartala
VIS ION
Institute is committed to develop highly competent
CO-COOR DINATOR(S)
young Engineers, Scientists, and Management
Dr. Sadhan Gope
Professionals to cater to the ever-increasing techno-
managerial needs of national and international Dr. P. Padmagirisan
standards fulfilling professional ethics and societal Assistant Professor
commitment. Department of Electrical Engineering
MISSION National Institute of Technology Agartala
Sponsored by
To produce techno-managerial human resource in line Science and Engineering Research Board
ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE
with global need offering state-of-the-art facility, Under Accelerate Vigyan Scheme
research and training in engineering and allied Dr. Shailendra Singh
(A Government of India Initiative)
disciplines. Assistant Professor,
at
Department of Electrical Engineering
NIT Agartala, Tripura
Department of Electrical Engineering
Email : shailendra.ee@nita.ac.in
National Institute of Technology, Agartala,
Contact No. : +91-9412482849
Tripura - 799046
IMPORTANT DATES
https://www.nita.ac.in/Department/Deptindex.aspx?
Last date of receipt of application:
page=a&ItemID=oi&nDeptID=caasc
05 March 2024
Notification about selection : by email

--- Page 2 ---
ABOUT ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING SPEAKERS HOW TO REACH NIT AGARTALA
DEPARTMENT
The speakers for this workshop will be from IITs, NITs,
The Institute is 4 km away from Jirania on Assam-
IIITs and industries.
Agartala Highway (NH-44) and about 20 km away
The Department of Electrical Engineering is
TARGET PARTICIPANTS from Agartala city. Agartala is well connected by
established in 1965 under the aegis of Tripura
Rail Road and Air. Pre-Paid Taxi and auto services
Engineering College (TEC), a state engineering
The proposed workshop is designed and intended for
college of Tripura, which is upgraded as National Ph.D, PG research scholars, and 4th year U.G. students are available from Agartala Airport to the Institute.
working/studying in the area of Electrical, Electronics,
Institute of Technology on 1st April 2006. The
Communication and Computer Science Engineering. REGISTRATION FEE & OTHER FACILITIES
department offers a four years B.Tech program in
“Electrical Engineering”. The department offers 2 OBJECTIVES OF THE PROGRAM
Workshop will be conducted in Physical Mode.
years M.Tech programs in four specializations namely
The primary objectives of the workshop are to enable Workshop registration fee is NIL.
Power System Engineering, Power Electronics &
the participants to: T. A./D.A. will be provided to the participants, as
Drives, Instrumentation Engineering, and Integrated
Understand the theory and concepts of Blockchain
per the SERB norms.
Energy Systems. Technology.
Understand the platform and simulation tools to Food and accommodation will be provided to all
The department is actively involved in high quality
implement blockchain technology.
the participants free of cost.
research and also running Ph.D. programs in especially
Identify the applications of blockchain technology
The registrations are limited to 25 participants.
in Instrumentation, Power System, Power Electronics in various areas of research in electrical energy
systems.
& Drives, Renewable Energy, Smart Grids, Electric
Realization of electricity market under Peer-to- Please fill up the registration form:
Vehicles etc. The research interests of the faculty
Peer energy trading.
members include a wide range of sub-disciplines of
Operation and control of electrical energy systems
https://forms.gle/qZtKaCmJkkbh4vH87
Electrical Engineering. The research activity of the Learn from the emerging challenges and operating
experience of utilities in implementing Blockchain
department includes fundamental research,
Technology.
sponsored and consultancy projects, and is carried
Realize the need for further research and
out with the active participation of the students, development in this rapidly growing area of
Electrical Energy Systems
faculty, and research staff.
For any query, please contact on email:
shailendra.ee@nita.ac.in, Mob.: 9412482849