
--- Page 1 ---
INFORMATION BROCHURE FOR
POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMME
CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
TRIPURA, INDIA
Feb, 2023

--- Page 2 ---
HoD’s Message
Chemistry Department, NIT Agartala established in the year 1965
with the focus on both teaching and high quality research in the
frontier areas of Chemistry and its interface with allied
disciplines. At present, the Chemistry Department is offering 2-
year MSc and PhD programme in Chemistry. Besides, the
Department also offers 5-year BS-MS dual degree course in
Dr. Mitali Saha Chemistry. Our PG program provides opportunities to students in
a wide array of chemical disciplines including analytical,
Associate Professor and
biological, environmental, inorganic, organic, materials, physical,
HOD
and theoretical chemistry. I hope you will explore our website to
get more information about our faculty profile and courses.
PG Coordinator’s Message
As a PG coordinator, I am happy to extend a warm welcome to
the aspiring candidates interested in learning more about our PG
course curriculum and syllabus. The PG programme is meant to
help students not only acquire knowledge in science and
chemistry, but also to apply that knowledge in industry and
academia to tackle tomorrow's issues. I hope you will like our
program and be motivated to join NIT Agartala.
Dr. Abhishek Koner
Assistant Professor
1

--- Page 3 ---
About NIT Agartala
National Institute of Technology is a centrally funded institute declared as Institute of
National Importance by Government of India. NIT Agartala offers B.Tech, BS-MS, BT-MT
in 12 branches, M.Tech, MSc in 24 specializations, MBA, MCA, and Ph.D in all branches of
engineering, science, humanities and management. Until now, 9350 undergraduate, 2420
post-graduate and 207 Ph.D. students have passed out from the institute. Presently, 3409
undergraduate students, 838 post graduate students and 275 Ph.D. scholars are pursuing their
studies in the institute.
About Chemistry Department
The Department of Chemistry was started since the inception of the Institute. Over the years
the department has developed sufficient infrastructure to run the under-graduate and post-
graduate courses, viz., 5-year dual BS-MS, and 2-year MSc. The department has intake
capacity of 13 students per session for MSc program and 20 students per session for dual BS-
MS program. The department also offers Ph.D. program in Chemistry.
Chemistry Department has developed infrastructure for carrying out the research work in
various fields such as organic and inorganic synthesis, organo-metallic chemistry,
coordination chemistry, green chemistry, bioinorganic, theoretical and computational
chemistry, nano-science and nanotechnology. The department has successfully
completed/ongoing 10 major research projects sponsored by DST, DBT, DAE-BRNS,
AICTE and CPRI.
Courses offered in the department
The Department of Chemistry offers courses in 5-year dual degree BSMS, 2- year MSc, and
PhD programmes. In addition, the department offers 1-year Engineering Chemistry course in
BTech.
Objectives to start the course
The MSc syllabus has been created with the syllabi of various competitive exams in mind,
such as NET/GATE and others. Candidates enrolled in the MSc Chemistry programme at
NIT Agartala will have the opportunity to acquire the fundamental concepts in Chemistry
from a devoted group of faculty members with extensive experience in teaching and research.
The students are being nurtured to become tomorrow's leaders in their chosen fields.
Student Intake
At present the student intake is 13 for 2-year PG program in Chemistry. Students are admitted
through CCMN. If seats are lying vacant, students are admitted through institute
advertisement.
Course Structure-Curriculum and Syllabus
The PG course has a total of 80 credits - 20 credits for each semester (1st to 4th). In the 1st, 2nd,
and 3rd semesters, only theory and lab classes are conducted. Project and Dissertation is being
carried out in the Industrial organization or in the institute on the proposed research topic so
2

--- Page 4 ---
that at least one journal paper may be published out of the research work.
The detailed syllabus is available on the departmental webpage.
https://nita.ac.in/Department/Deptindex.aspx?page=a&ItemID=qa&nDeptID=caaso
Credit evaluation system
Continuous evaluation system is followed. Credit based Cumulative Grade Point Average
(CGPA) System alongwith SGPA (Semester Grade Point Average) system is adopted. Theory
subjects are evaluated based on Internal Assessment (30 marks), Mid Term Examination (20
marks), and End Term Examination (50 marks). Questions are prepared following the
Bloom’s Taxonomy satisfying the NBA pattern.
Project evaluation committee
Project and Thesis are being evaluated by an Evaluation Committee where External Expert
from reputed institutes like IISc, IITs, NITs are present to evaluate the works being carried
out by the scholar under the supervision of a faculty member.
Evaluation of Project work
Beginning from the year 2022, the project evaluation would be carried out twice in a year: 3rd
Semester (internally at the departmental level) and 4th Semester (in the presence of external
examiner). Emphasis is generally given on publication of research in SCI/Scopus and UGC
indexed journals, etc.
Facilities available in the department
i) State-of-the-art UG, PG and PhD research laboratories
3

--- Page 5 ---
ii) Instruments laboratory with advanced facilities
 Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC)
 Infrared Spectrophotometer (FTIR)
 Partical size analyzer (DLS)
4

--- Page 6 ---
 UV-Visible Spectrophotometer
iii) Departmental Library along with Central Library cater to the requirements of books
for the various courses
iv) Smart Class rooms
v) Conference Room
More about our facilities can be found at the departmental website.
Departmental collaboration
The faculties in the Chemistry Department have established collaboration for their research
projects with some of the premier institutes and universities in the country. Through their
collaboration, the researchers have made significant contributions in their respective domains.
Departmental PG Course Committee
Courses Faculty Name
Course-1 Dr. Abhishek Koner, Coordinator
(Inorganic Chemistry) Dr. Chanchal Bhaumik, Co-Coordinator
Course-II Dr. Mitali Saha, Coordinator
(Organic Chemistry) Dr. Venkata Bharat Nishtala, Co-Coordinator
Course-III Dr. Jhinuk De, Coordinator
(Physical Chemistry) Dr. Susanta Ghanta, Co-Coordinator
Course-IV Dr. Saroj Kumar Das, Coordinator
(Special Paper) Dr. Chitraniva Datta, Co-Coordinator
5

--- Page 7 ---
Departmental Alumni Committee
Dr. T. K. Misra (Associate Professor)
Coordinator
Placement and Higher Studies
The passed-out students of previous academic years that have qualified NET/GATE, pursuing
higher education and currently employed are listed as under
S. Name of year Higher Place of Net Employe Employer Place of
N. Student studies higher /Gate/SLE d Yes/no name employer
Yes/no studies T
qualified
1. Abhay Shankar 2019 NO NA GATE NO NA NA
2. Snigdha Shil 2019 NO NA NA YES Brilliant Tripura
Star
School,
Udaipur,
Tripura
3. Dhilon Debnath 2020 NO NA NO YES TCG Life Hyderabad
sciences,
Chembiotek
4. Susmita Das 2020 NO NA GATE YES TCG Hyderabad
Chembiote
k
5. Arti Soni 2020 NO NA GATE YES Byju’s Bengaluru
6. Shubhra Sharma 2020 NO NA NO YES Byju’s Bengaluru
7. Nikita 2020 NO NA GATE YES Vedantu Bengaluru
Group
8. Minakshi Gogoi 2020 YES B.ed in NO NO NA NA
NERIE
shilling.
9. Plabita Rajkhowa 2020 YES RGU, NO NO NA NA
Arunachal
Pradesh
10. Murshida 2020 YES Jainee NO NO NA NA
Ezkhatun Achar College of
Kandy Education,
Dindigul, TN
11. Saikat Kumar 2020 YES B.Ed. NO NO NA NA
Acharjee College,
IASE,
Kunjaban,
Agartala
12. Akshay Kumar 2021 YES BHU, NO NO NA NA
Ray Banaras
13. Sayari Saha 2021 NO NA NO YES Syngene Hyderabad
Internation
al Limited
14. Subham Nath 2021 YES MG NO NO NA NA
Academic
Institute,
Murshidaba
d, W.B.
6

--- Page 8 ---
Core Faculty Members of the course
Sl. No. Name of the Faculty Member Designation Research/Subjects
taught
1 Dr. Saroj Kumar Das Associate Professor Organic Chemistry
2 Dr. Tarun Kumar Misra Associate Professor Inorganic Chemistry
3 Dr. Mitali Saha Associate Professor Organic Chemistry
4 Dr. Abhishek Koner Assistant Professor Inorganic Chemistry
5 Dr. Venkata Bharat Nishtala Assistant Professor Organic Chemistry
6 Dr. Subhojit Das Assistant Professor Physical Chemistry
7 Dr. Manojit Roy Assistant Professor Inorganic Chemistry
8 Dr. Jhinuk De Assistant Professor Physical Chemistry
9 Dr. Sajal Kundu Assistant Professor Inorganic Chemistry
10 Dr. Chitraniva Datta Assistant Professor Inorganic Chemistry
11 Dr. Susanta Ghanta Assistant Professor Physical Chemistry
12 Dr. Manas Roy Assistant Professor Inorganic Chemistry
13 Dr. Chanchal Bhaumik Assistant Professor Inorganic Chemistry
Detailed Faculty profile is available on the departmental page:
https://nita.ac.in/Department/Department_FacultyList.aspx?nDeptID=caaso
HoD, Department of Chemistry
Dr. Mitali Saha
Associate Professor and Head
Email: mitalisah@gmail.com, mitalisaha.chem@nita.ac.in
Mobile: 8974006400
7