
--- Page 1 ---
About the Programme 4. Prof. (Dr.) Debashis Bhattacharya, About the Department
At the advent of NEP, 2020, when the Professor, Department of
The Chemical Engineering Department of
departmental domains are getting
Mathematics. NIT Agartala started its journey in the
thinner, multidisciplinary education in
engineering courses is getting 5. Prof. (Dr.) Debashis Neogi, Professor, academic year 2009 -10 with a vision to be
importance. The exposure to a wider leader in chemical engineering discipline,
Department of Management,
range of subjects that will help promote
and quickly flourished in short span of time
holistic development has become a Humanities and Social Science.
as one of the eminent department of the
priority.
institute in terms of teaching and research.
In this context, the Department of
About the Institute
Chemical Engineering is organizing one 6
The department has diverse research
days workshop involving expert speakers National Institute of Technology Agartala
dimensions in various Chemical engineering
(Professors) across various core and allied a centrally funded Institution is setup to
departments of NIT Agartala, introducing domains which include fluid dynamics,
impart quality technical education into
the modern days cutting edge various levels of higher learning. This numerical simulation, catalysis and reaction
technologies which is require for
institute is one of the 31 (thirtyone) engineering, environmental engineering,
Industries. The workshop will foster
National Level Technical Institutes setup
biofuel, bioenergy, renewable energy,
knowledge sharing between the various
by the Govt. of India. The Institute’s
branches of engineering. sustainable engineering, energy and fuel
mission is "To help to improve the
technology, materials engineering,
economic development of the country
Experts nanotechnology, and polymer technology, as
particularly the North-East states and
also the public systems, through pursuit well as many other emerging and pressing
1. Prof. (Dr.) Richi Prasad Sharma,
of excellence in technical education, areas of chemical engineering.
Professor, Department of Civil research, consultancy and training".
The department has state-of the-art
Engineering
laboratories for teaching and research, which
2. Prof. (Dr.) Prasun Chakraborty,
include fluid dynamics, mechanical
Professor, Department of Mechanical operation, mass transfer, heat transfer,
Engineering reaction engineering, process control,
numerical simulation, energy technology,
3. 3. Prof. (Dr.) Swapan Bhowmick,
pollution control, and sophisticated
Professor, Department of Mechanical
analytical instrument laboratory. Facilities
Engineering.
and infrastructure are added and revamped
every year.

--- Page 2 ---
06 days Workshop Programme Coordinators Registration Fee
There is a nominal charge of INR 1000.00
on
Dr. Srimanta Ray
will be levied to attend this Program.
Participants willing to attend this online
“Design and Sustainability in Assistant Professor
mode should have the provision of
Chemical
Process Industries ” Engineering laptop/desktop with good quality internet
connections and other audio-visual facilities,
Department
as required for online training.
NIT Agartala
11th –16th September, 2023
Registration Process
Participants interested to attend this
Dr. Bibhab Kr. Lodh program need to make the payment given
Assistant Professor below through Online Mode and in the
Google Form the details of the payment has
Chemical
to be correctly filled. The registration include
Engineering
participation and certificate (for eligible
Department
participants), inaugural lunch, tea and
NIT Agartala
snacks. The accommodation will be provided
with extra cost at the guest house, if
Organizing Committee
available, as per the institute rule.
Dr. S. Nag, Ast. Prof., ChE, NITA
Organized By Dr. T.K. Bandopadhyay, Ast. Prof, ChE, NITA
Payment Details:
Dr. K. Gayen, Ast. Prof, ChE, NITA Account Name: NIT Agartala- IRG Fund
Department of Chemical Engineering
Dr, A. K. Manna, Ast. Prof, ChE, NITA A/C No:30369892838
NIT Agartala, Tripura-799046, India Dr. S. Mamidi, Ast. Prof, ChE, NITA IFSC Code: SBIN0011491
Dr. M.S Manna, Ast. Prof, ChE, NITA
Patron Dr. S. Biswas, Ast. Prof, ChE, NITA Google Form Link:
Mr. D.N. Das, Lab Ast. ChE NITA https://forms.gle/PgfTXkAH9RtyXrs6A
Mr. D. Goswami, Lab Ast. ChE NITA
Mr. M. Sharma, Lab Ast. ChE NITA Address for correspondence
Mr. K. Das, Lab Ast. ChE NITA
Dr. Srimanta Ray
E-mail: srimanta.chemical@nita.ac.in
Eligibility Criteria
Contact: +91 – 8974867827
Faculty members, research scholars,
Dr. Bibhab Kumar Lodh
students at UG and PG levels from AICTE
E-mail: bibhab123@rediffmail.com
Prof. (Dr.) Sarat Kumar Patra approved Engineering and polytechnic
Contact: +91 – 9436579254
Director, NIT Agartala Institutes and Industrial persons are eligible
to participate. Participants are required to fill Mr. Mrinmoy Sarma
online registration form. Detail is given in E-mail: sarmamrinmoy9@gmail.com
registration process Contact: +91 –8974554346