
--- Page 1 ---
राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिकी सस्ं थान, अिरतला
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA
प्रायोगित शोध एव ं औद्योगिक परामश श कायाशलय
Sponsored Research and Industrial Consultancy
Office of the Dean(R&C)
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360,
Url:- www.nita.ac.in
1

--- Page 2 ---
Vision
National Institute of Technology, Agartala will transform its students through education,
innovation, creativity, research, and entrepreneurship to become professionals and impact the
nation and the society to be at the forefront of ever changing world.
Mission
i. To impart world class education in all frontiers of science and technology.
ii. To integrate knowledge and experiences both inside and outside of the classroom by
faculty-student interaction, experiential learning and embracing new technology–making every
opportunity into a possible learning outcome.
iii. To train future leaders who will serve the nation, society and the world with the highest
standards of personal ethos and integrity coupled with patriotism.
iv. To empower the nation with high quality research and propel the nation to become the
leading country in innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship.
1 Introduction
National Institute of Technology, Agartala (NITA) is a centrally funded institution, in the state of
Tripura, India. The Institute got upgraded from the erstwhile, state-run, Tripura Engineering
College by the Union Cabinet on 23rd February 2006. This is the 20th National Institute of
Technology (NIT) in the country and is the 2nd in the North-Eastern region. The Institute imparts
quality education in the field of engineering, management, basic science and humanities.
1.1 Profile of the Institute
The Government of India converted the Tripura Engineering College to National Institute of
Technology Agartala on 1st April 2006 vide notification No. F. 20-20/2004/TS III/ dated
10.03.2006 of the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD), Govt. of India. During
the conversion, Tripura Engineering College was offering undergraduate degrees in Civil,
Mechanical, Electrical, Electronics & Communication and Production Engineering.
After the conversion to NIT, in 2010-11, the Institute started two UG courses Electronics &
Instrumentation Engineering and Chemical Engineering. After that, during the Academic Session
2012-13, a Bio-Engineering course at UG level was started. Apart from the UG courses, the
Institute now offers a postgraduate degree in MBA, MCA, M. Tech in 23 specializations and MSc
in basic science. Besides these academic curricula, the Institute provides an opportunity for
research. The research carried out at the departments of the Institute has produced more than 100
PhD scholars. The Institute presently has 13 departments offering UG, PG and PhD courses.
2

--- Page 3 ---
Majority of the admission to this Institute is based on an all India entrance tests and or national
counselling. The UG students are admitted to the Institute for the seats that are allocated by
central seat allocation board (CSAB) under joint seat allocation Authority (JoSAA), based on the
performance of these students, in the joint national entrance examination main (JEE Main). The
Institute also invites international students to undergo UG studies under Direct Admission of
Students Abroad (DASA) scheme.
For admission to M. Tech courses, students should have a valid GATE score and should appear in
the Centralized Counselling for M. Tech./M.Arch./M.Plan (CCMT). Besides the regular intake, to
promote higher education among the employed persons, few seats are kept reserved for sponsored
candidates from academia and industry. Admission to the MCA course in the Institute is based on
the performance of the candidate in the national level entrance test NIT MCA Common Entrance
Test (NIMCET). The students for the MSc program are admitted through Centralized Counselling
for M.Sc./ M.Sc. (Tech.) programmes in NITs and CFTIs (CCMN) based on the performance in
joint admission test for M.Sc. (JAM). The unfilled seats of M. Tech/MSc are filled up locally
based on a test and or interview. The regular PhD scholars are admitted through interview after
they qualify in the written test. From the academic session 2021-22, admission to MCA
programme will be held based on Institute level examination (written or viva or both) for the
vacant seats left after the admission through NIMCET. The Institute makes wide publicity about
the PhD admission in reputed all India as well as local newspapers. The curricula of UG, PG and
PhD courses are strictly governed by the rules and regulations laid down for each course.
The classrooms and the laboratories of the Institute are equipped with modem facilities. The
Institute provides computer labs in each department, to provide the students access to the
worldwide net to upgrade their knowledge. Besides the computer centres of the departments, there
is a central computational facility, mostly for the first year UG students. The computer science and
engineering department has a PARAM Shavak super-computer. The state-of the-art library cum
knowledge centre has over fifty thousand textbooks and online e-resources. The Centre for Career
Development (CCD) assists to arrange internship and placement for the students of the Institute.
Besides the academic curriculum, the Institute encourages its students to participate in extra-
curricular activities after the academic hours. The students actively participate in sports and
techno-cultural activities.
The faculties of the Institute are highly qualified and have good expertise in their fields. The
Institute has established academic tie-ups with IIT Kharagpur, IIT Guwahati, Jadavpur University,
IIEST(Formerly BESU), NITK Surathkal, NIT Warangal apart from other renowned University /
Institute of India and abroad. There is an agreement with IIT Madras, whereby the top 10% of the
B.Tech students of engineering departments are allowed to pursue their final year at IIT Madras.
After that, depending on their performance, they may be allowed to carry out integrated PhD
programs at IIT Madras. The Institute has taken the initiative to go into a similar agreement with
reputed national and international Institutes. Apart from this, a continuing education cell in the
form of a national-level research centre in areas like Geo-technology, Information Technology and
Renewable energy have been established. Industry-Institute Linkage has been revamped for
catering to the needs of industrialization of the region at large and the State in particular.
The hostels in the Institute accommodate more than 3000 boys and 500 girls. To take care of the
health of the students, the Institute has a medical unit in its campus. Doctors are present, round the
3

--- Page 4 ---
clock, here. To help the students financially, the Institute implements various scholarships of the
government of India and various state governments.
The Institute is administered by the Director of the Institute under the direct supervision of Board
of Governors (BoG) of the Institute headed by the Chairman. The Institute is governed as per NIT
Act 2007. His Excellency, The President of India, is the Visitor of the Institute. The academic
policies of the Institute are implemented by the Dean Academic Affairs after the approval by the
SENATE of the Institute and ratification by the Board of Governors (BoG). The Planning and
Development of the Institute are implemented through Dean (P&D). All the student-related affairs
are looked after by the Dean (SW). The works of Research and Consultancy are looked after by the
Dean(R&C) while Dean (FW) is In-Charge of all the faculty related works in the Institute.
Chairman (AA&IR) looks after all alumni affairs and affairs of Institutional Relations. The
Registrar is responsible to the Director for proper implementation of all the policies of the
Institute.
4

--- Page 5 ---
2 Research Activities at NIT Agartala
Our campus is witnessing an exponential growth in R&D activities. Apart from a large
consultancy work undertaken by our engineering departments, academic research gains its
momentum day by day. Papers have been published by our faculty members and research scholars
in different refereed journals of international and national repute. Research papers have been
presented in various conferences and symposia and symposia held at national/international levels.
Seminars, conferences, symposia at national level were organized by various departments of our
Institute.
Our Institute has signed MOUs with industries and Institutions in and abroad to promote
collaborative research and consultancies. Our faculty members have obtained major project funded
by DST, DBT, FIST, ICSSR, ICMR, CSIR, Tribal Research and Cultural Institute, DST-
STUTI, DRDO, MGNREGA works for Tripura, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushal
Yojana (DDU-GKY), Unnat Bharat Abhiyan and ISRO.
Institute actively engaged in performing various consultancies and testing works.
Academic departments are performing testing & consultancy job in association with IRCON,
MGNREGA works for Tripura, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushal Yojana (DDU-GKY),
Department of Agriculture, Govt. of Tripura, ERM India Private Ltd. ,PWD, Directorate of School
Education, HUMANE SOCIETY INTERNATIONAL INDIA and Department of Rural
Development, Government of Tripura etc.
5

--- Page 6 ---
2.1 CONSULTANCY PROJECTS: RULES AND REGULATIONS
2.1.1. Introduction
The NIT Agartala considers consultancy works/projects to be important components of its
activities. Appropriate projects provide a much needed service to the industry. It helps in the
country’s industrial growth and increases the institute’s involvement with industry. They enrich the
professional experience and knowledge of the faculty members and help them in their teaching and
research. The projects provide a first hand knowledge of the current problems of the industry,
which is very helpful in turning the curricula to industry’s needs. Faculty members get an
opportunity to apply their ideas to practical situation. Students working on these projects get
practical experience, which helps them in their future careers. Finally consultancy projects provide
financial incentives to individuals departments and the Institute as a whole to conduct research to
supplement the Institute’s financial needs and to provide services to society as a whole.
2. Projects Initiation and Management.
2.1. Consultancy Projects.
a) Each consultancy project will have a Principal Consultant who will be responsible for
i) Formulating the project proposal which may include (a) planning of the work to be done,
(b) estimating costs according to guidelines provide in a letter section, and (c)
identifying other consultants if necessary.
ii) Execution of work.
iii) Handling all communications with the clients after the projects has been accepted.
iv) Writing of intermediate and final reports according to the project proposal.
v) Making recommendation to the Dean of Research & Consultancy (DORC)/ Head of
related Department/Centre regarding expenditure from the project funds and
disbursement of funds to participants in the consultancy project.
b) Appointment of Principal Consultant: Industries organizations usually approach the
institute for consultancy work through a faculty member or a functionary of the institute
(i.e., Head, Dean or Director). When a faculty member is approached for work he will be the
Principle Consultant. If he does not wish to be the Principle Consultant or if the project is
referred to a functionary, Principle Consultant would be identified through appropriate
discussions and appointment will be made by the DORC.
c) The project proposal prepared by the Principal Consultant will be forwarded to the client by
Dean Research & Consultancy.
d) In extreme emergencies , a consultant may take up an assignment with intimation to
the DORC and then seek post-facto approval within 7(seven) days of the assignment.
.
6

--- Page 7 ---
e) The Institute normally requires the cost of the project to be deposit by the client, in full
before the work commences. However, based on needs of the client and circumstances, the
Institute may permit commencement of work with payment to be made as per agreed upon
milestones.
All payments from clients will be received by the Institute and expenditure and
disbursement made through normal Institute project rules.
d) After the initial deposit has been made by the client, Dean Research & Consultancy Office
will assign a job number to the project and inform the same to the client. Principal
Consultant and the Head of the concerned Department, this completes the process of
initiation of a consultancy project. The above job number must be quoted in all subsequent
correspondence.
The project file will be closed with the submission of the final project report and
disbursement of fees to consultants and others.
2.2 Sponsored Projects
1. Each Sponsored Project will have a Principal investigator who will be responsible for:
i) Formulating the project proposal, which may include:
a) planning of the work to be done.
b) estimating costs according to guidelines provided in section 3.2 and
c) identifying other consultancy if necessary.
ii) Execution of work.
iii) Handling all communications with the clients after the projects being accepted.
iv) Writing of intermediate and final reports according to the project proposal.
v) Making recommendations to Dean of Research & Consultancy (DORC) regarding
expenditure from the project funds.
2. Appointment of Principal Investigator: Sponsored Projects are usually based on a
proposal written by a faculty number. In such cases, the Principal Investigator will be
identified in the project proposal. In case, the institute is awarded a sponsored project
directly or a proposal is submitted at the institute level, the principal investigator would be
identified through appropriate discussions and appointment will be made by the DORC .
3. The project proposal prepared by the Principal Investigator will be forwarded to the client
by the Dean of Research & Consultancy.
7

--- Page 8 ---
4. In extreme emergencies, a consultant may take up an assignment with intimation to the
DORC and then seek approval.
5. The Institute normally requires the cost of the project to be deposited by the sponsoring
agency in full before the work commences. However, based on needs of the agency and
circumstances, the Institute may permit commencement of work with payment to be made
as per agreed upon milestones.
All payments from sponsoring agencies will be received by the institute and
expenditure and disbursements made through normal procedures.
6. After the project has been awarded, the Dean (Research & Consultancy) Office will assign a
job number to the project and inform the same to the sponsoring agency. Principle
Investigator and the Head of the concerned Department. This completes the process of
initiation of a consultancy project. The above job number must be quoted in all subsequent
correspondence.
The project file will be closed with the submission of the final project report.
3. Regular Rules and Regulations.
3.1 Budget Heads
There will be a separate Institute account for project funds. All funds received for projects
will be deposited in this account. Bank account of this fund will be operated by Dean (R&C) and
the Registrar.
Besides the funds for ongoing projects, this account will be used to maintain number of
funds of the Institute as described below:
1. Institute development fund (IDF): Overheads from the project and the portions of payment
made to consultants etc. will be credited to this fund as per details given below. The utilization of
this fund will be decided by the Committee comprising of the Director, DORC & HODs. Bank
account of this fund will be operated by the Director and the Dean (R&C).
2. Department Promotion Fund (DPF): Each department and centre of the Institute will have a
separate fund in which its earning may be deposited. This includes portions of consultancy fees
and costs charge to projects for use of the department facilities. This fund will be operated by the
Head of the Department/Centre. Bank account of this fund will be operated by the Head of the
Department/Centre and Coordinator of the respective department/centre.
3. Professional Development Fund (PDF): Every faculty (and class A technical staff) member
may have a separate fund. A faculty may deposit his/her consultancy fees due, to this fund. Other
earnings, such as from short term courses may also be deposited in this account. The faculty
member will operate this fund (with approval from DORC) and the following expenditures will be
permitted.
 Travel of self or other employees for professional work. Consultancy project travel rules
will apply.
8

--- Page 9 ---
 Purchase of books, journals and membership fees of professional societies.
 Purchase of consumable for professional work.
 Cost of photocopy binding etc.
 Cost of telephone (deposited charge, rentals and call charges of phone at the office or
residences).
 Hiring manpower.
 Purchase of equipment (these will be property of NIT Agartala, but may be used
exclusively for the members; professional work) and maintenance charges.
 Hiring of service such as taxis, caterers etc needed for professional work.
 Any other expenses permitted by DORC.
 Bank account of this fund will be operated by the respective consultant.
The following funds are not Dean of Research & Consultancy funds, but funds of the Institute into
which transfers will be made from consultancy projects as per details given below:
4. Staff Welfare Fund: A fund of Institute to be utilized by the Chairman, Staff Welfare
Committee, or a person nominated by the Director. Bank account of this fund will be operated
by the Director and the Registrar.
5. Students Welfare Fund: A fund of the Institute to be utilized by the Dean of Students Affairs
or a person nominated by the Director. Bank account of this fund will be operated by the
Director and the Dean (SW).
3.2 Costs
Cost of a project will consist of Overheads, Actual expenses- for consultancy projects,
payments to employees, external consultants, students.
3.2.1 Institute Overhead Charges
For Consultancy Projects, ten percent (10%) of the total project cost and for Sponsored
Projects, fifteen percent (15%) of the total project will be charged as Institute overhead and paid to
the Institute Development Fund (IDF). For sponsored projects, if the sponsoring agency is a Govt.
agency, then its norms for overheads will be followed.
3.2.2 Actual Expenses
The Actual expenses will cover the following costs related to the project:
1) Permanent equipment to be procured.
2) Consumable materials to be used.
3) Computational charge (at commercial rates).
4) Charges to be paid for the use of specific equipment in the department or central facilities.
5) Contingency expenses: These will cover
a) Cost of supplies, stationary, reproduction.
b) Cost of books, journals, membership fees of professional societies.
c) Payment for typing and other office work to outside agencies.
9

--- Page 10 ---
d) Postage and telephone (including phone deposit charge, rentals and call charges of
phones at the office or residences).
e) Entertainment expenses (this is to cover costs incurred in meeting clients in the
Institute or during tours).
f) Costs charged by a department for facilities provided to the project (such as large
amounts of photocopying, use of computational and printing facilities etc).
6) Traveling expenses.
a) Travel may be undertaken for site, meetings outside the institute, participation
in Conferences/Workshops/Seminars in India and abroad.
b) Regular TA/DA rules of the institute will be relaxed in the following manner
for travel within India. For travel abroad, Institute rules will apply:
i) Rates may be fixed between the sponsor and the consultants when the
proposal is made and these need not be as per Institute rules.
ii) Where no rates are fixed beforehand.
iii) No restrictions will be made on mode of travel due to eligibility, maximum of
twice the daily gross salary at the ceiling of the scale of the concerned
employee (gross excludes HRA), will be paid.
iv) Actual taxi/auto charges incurred, including hiring of taxis on an hourly basis
will be allowed. Where no cash memos can be obtained, signature of the
driver on a prescribed form will be obtained.
c) For consultancy project, for each site visit a fee can be charged at a rate
specified in the project proposal subject to a maximum specified from time to
time by the DORC.
7) Salaries of project employees.
3.2.3 Payment to employees, external and Students in Consultancy Project:
Payment can be done one of the following:
 Consultation fees to faculty and technical staff.
 Honorarium to students.
 Honorarium to overtime to other staffs.
 Payment to students.
 Fees to external consultants.
Any payment due will be divided into two parts: Seventy percent (70%) of the amount will be paid
to the person concerned and the remaining thirty percent (30%) will be credited in the following
manner:
 Forty (40%) of the amount to the Institute Development Fund (IDF)
10

--- Page 11 ---
 Fifty (50%) to the concerned Department Promotional Fund (DPF). In case more individual
department, funds will be specified when the project is initiated.
 5% to the staff welfare fund.
 5% to the student welfare fund.
As mentioned in section 3.1 above, a faculty member or a class a technical staff member may
deposit part or all of the payment due into his/her Professional Development Fund (PDF).
3.3 Testing Fees in Consultancy Projects.
The Institute will undertake routine and non-routine testing jobs provided facilities are
available and such testing does not interfere with any teaching or Research & Consultancy work at
standard rates or at the rates estimated by the Faculty who will supervise the testing work. The
testing fees charged from the clients will be divided into three parts. First 40% will be deposited in
the concerned departments Promotion Fund (DPF). Second 10% will be deposited in the Institute
Development Fund (IDF) and third 50% will be distributed to Faculty and Staff who will execute
the work.
Accounting procedure at a glance for Testing and Consultancy works.
Sl.
Items Amount (Rs.) Balance (Rs.)
No.
1. Total amount X X
2. Service charges Y X-Y
2. Actual expenses Z X-Y - Z
3. Institute Development Fund (IDF) 0.10 (X-Y - Z) 0.90 (X-Y - Z)
4. DPF 0.40 (X-Y - Z) 0.50 (X-Y - Z)
Payment to Faculty, faculty, Staff,
5. 0.45 (X-Y - Z) 0.05 (X-Y - Z)
students & external consultants
6. Departmental / Institute office Staff 0.05 (X-Y - Z) 0
3.4 External Consultants in Consultancy Projects
The services of external consultants may be utilized to a limited extent in order to provide
comprehensive services to clients. Such external candidates will be entitled to a lump sum
honorarium/fees. Disbursement norms are detailed in section 3.2.3 above. The honoraria payable
to external consultants may not exceed 40% of the total consultancy fee.
11

--- Page 12 ---
3.5 Accounting Procedure at a glance for Consultancy Projects
An example below illustrates the accounting procedure for a consultancy project :
Sl.
Items Amount (Rs.) Balance (Rs.)
No.
1 Total Amount of the Project X X
2. Service Charges Y X-Y
2. Institute Overhead (IDF) 10% of (X-Y) = 0.1 (X-Y) 0.9 (X-Y)
3. Actual Expenses Z {0.9 (X-Y)- Z}
30% of {0.9 (X-Y)- Z}= S:
4. Share to Institute Funds 0.7 {0.9 (X-Y)- Z}
0.3 {0.9 (X-Y)- Z}
Payment to Faculty, Staff,
65% of {0.9 (X-Y)- Z}= P:
5. students & external 0.05 (h-y-z)
0.7 {0.9 (X-Y)- Z}
consultants
Departmental / Institute Office 5% of {0.9 (X-Y)- Z}= D:
6. 0
Staff 0.05 {0.9 (X-Y)- Z}
Distribution of Share to Institute Funds
Sl. No. Items Amount (Rs.) Balance (Rs.)
Total Amount to
1 S S
Institute Funds
2 Share to IDF 40% of S = 0.4 S 0.6 S
3 Share to DPF 50% of S = 0.5 S 0.4 S
Share to Staff
4 5% of S = 0.05 S 0.05 S
Welfare Fund
Share to Students
5 5% of S = 0.05 S 0
Welfare Fund
12

--- Page 13 ---
C. Payment to Faculty, staff, students and external Consultants
Sl.
Items Amount (Rs.) Balance (Rs.)
No.
1 Total Amount to Pay P P
Transfer to PDF of Principal
2 A P – A
Consultant
3 Payment to technical staff B P – A – B
4 Payment to students C P – A – B - C
5 Payment to External Consultant D P – A – B - C – D
6 Payment to Faculty P – A – B - C – D 0
3.6 Hiring Norms
Open selection will be held for all project posts of duration having more than one and a
half (1.5) years. Otherwise there will be an internal circular within the Institute. If suitable
candidates are not available, then open selection will be made. In special situations, on the
recommendations of the Principal Consultant/ Investigator short term job contracts for up to 6
months may be given with the approval of the Dean Research and Consultancy (DORC).
All projects appointments will be contractual and the basis of consolidation monthly
compensation.
Automatic transfer of contractual appointment of a project staff will be for the duration of
the project or three years whichever is less.
The total period of contractual employment with Dean of Administration office in two or
more projects in no case exceed five years.
A project employee shall execute a contract agreement on non judicial stamp paper of
value Rs. 10/- with the DORC at the time of joining with the explicit provision that contract may
be terminated by either side by giving one month’s notice or one month’s consolidated
compensation in lieu of the notice.
Selection shall normally be made as per the guidelines provided by the sponsoring agency
and as per Institute requirements and with the approval of the DORC.
13

--- Page 14 ---
All appointment letters shall be issued under the signature of Deputy Registrar/Asst.
Registrar (Office of the DORC).
The Principal Consultant/ Investigator shall consider prevailing compensation packages,
general qualifications and experience of staff while preparing project proposals.
The Selection Committee for the recruitment of Project staff for each project will be
constituted by the DORC as follows:
i) DORC or his nominee - Chairman
ii) Principal Consultant / Investigator (PCI) - Member
iii) HOD/HOC of the concerned Deptt./ - Member
Center to which the PCI belongs
iv) An expert on the subject (to - Member
be recommended by the Deptt./Center)
v) An expert to be nominated by the DORC - Member
if the PCI is the HOD/HOC
If the DORC is not the Chairman of the Selection Committee, its recommendation shall be
submitted to the DORC for consideration and approval. The DORC shall have the power to fix on
the recommendations of the selection committee. The monthly-consolidated compensation and the
duration of the contractual appointment.
On the completion of each year of service during the contract period suitable enhancement
of monthly compensation may be considered by the DORC on the recommendations of the PCI
and the HOD/HOC of the concerned Deptt./Center.
The project employees shall be entitled to HRA, if accommodation of the campus is not
made available to them. Expenditure towards subsidized in campus accommodation/ HRA and
medical facilities shall be charged to the salary head of the respective project.
All projects staff shall work for the project in which he is engaged only unless requested
otherwise by the PICs concerned and agreed to by the DORC.
PCIs shall be the sanctioning and controlling authority for all types of leaves with respect
to contractual project staff.
Conduct Rules: Project employee shall
 Follow general code of conduct as approved by the DORC.
 Maintain secrecy of the research findings/ technical information and shall not get
involved in unauthorized communication of any official document or information.
14

--- Page 15 ---
DORC may, at his discretion, constitute committee(s) to conduct disciplinary proceedings, if
necessary against project employees. On the basis of the report suitable disciplinary action may be
initiated and punishment will be imposed by the DORC.
Project employees may be allowed to register for the Ph.D Programme as per institute norms if
any.
3.7 Leave Provision
Faculty members going out of the town on consultancy work will be treated to be on duty
subject to a maximum of 30 days per year, and subject to a maximum of 10 working days per
regular semester. Approval for going out on duty on such work will be approved by the DORC.
4. Limitations
It is expected that only those consultancy projects and routine test will be accepted by the
Institute which provide challenges befitting professional competence of the faculty members.
Sufficient caution also needs to be exercised to ensure that consultancy projects do not interfere
with the normal duties of faculty members. Thus, the time spent by a faculty staff member on
consultancy works should be limited, on an average to one day a week.
5. Consultancy Committee
To monitor the consultancy works, a Consultancy Committee of the Institution is as follows:
i) Dean (Research & Consultancy) - Chairman
ii) Associate Dean (Research & Consultancy) - Member-Secretary
iii) All HODs/HOCs - Member
6. Interpretation of Rules
Wherever difficulties arise in interpreting rules or relaxations and changed are required for
smooth functioning of consultancy works, the Consultancy Committee and Director will be the
competent authority for approval on behalf of the Board of Governors.
Registrar
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala-799 046
15

--- Page 16 ---
4.1 Fund Received through Consultancy & Testing Work:
70
Rs.66.00 Lakhs
Rs.61.00 lakhs
60 Rs.57.00 Lakhs
Rs.56.00 Lakhs
50
40
Rs.30.69 Lakhs
30
20
10
0
2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22
Consultancy & Testing Work Project
Department Wise Fund Received in Last Five
Years (FY 2017-18 to 2021-22)
Civil Engineering: Rs. 241.36
Lakhs
Mechanical Engineering : Rs.
24.12 Lakhs
MH&SS Department: Rs. 3.84
Lakhs
Chemical Engineering: Rs. 1.80
Lakhs
16

--- Page 17 ---
2.2 Sponsored Research Projects
Our Institute has signed MOUs with industries and Institutions in and abroad to promote
collaborative research and consultancies. Our faculty members have obtained major project funded
by DST, DBT, FIST, ICSSR, ICMR, CSIR, Tribal Research and Cultural Institute, DST-
STUTI, DRDO, MGNREGA works for Tripura, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushal
Yojana (DDU-GKY), Unnat Bharat Abhiyan and ISRO.
Faculties and students are actively involved in various research activities. Our Institute received
Rs.372,02,377 Lakhs in the financial year of 2021-22 under the Sponsored Research Project
Grant.
2.3 Sponsored Research Grant (FY. 2017-18 to 2021-22)
600
Rs.551.00 Lakhs
500
400
300
Rs.225.53 Lakhs
Rs.212.65 Lakhs
200 Rs.185.93 Lakhs
100
Rs.29.4 Lakhs
0
2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22
Sponsored Research Project
17

--- Page 18 ---
Department Wise Fund Sanctioned in Last Five
Years FY 2017-18 to 2021-22
Bio Engineering : Rs.306.09 Lakhs
Mathematics Department:
Rs.281.46 Lakhs
Civil Engineering :Rs. 223.30 Lakhs
Physics Department: Rs.71.69
Lakhs
Electrical Engineering: Rs.63.91
Lakhs
18

--- Page 19 ---
2.4 List of Sponsored Projects:
Sponsored Research Project, Year 2021-22
Sl. Departments Title of the Project PI & Co-PI Duration of the Sanctioned Funding Agency
No Project Amount
(Lakhs)
1 Computer New Gemeration Innovation PI: Dr. Suman Deb, Assistant 5 years 10.00 Lakhs Directorate of
Science and Network (NGIN) . P r o f . o f C S E D epartment. Information on
Engineering Technology,
Tripura
2 Mechanical Study of Two Phase Bubble PI: Dr. Abhik Majumder, 3 years 40.524 Lakhs SERB
Engineering Condensation in Parallel and Assistant Prof. of ME Dept.
cross flow orientation.
3 Mathematics Solving Multiple Gravity Assist PI: Dr. Apu Kumar Saha, 3 years 6.6 Lakhs SERB
Department Spacecraft Trajectories Assistant Prof. of Mathematics
Optimization problem by Department.
Metaheuristic Algorithms.
4 Mathematics Development of Mathematics Co-PI: Dr. Baby Bhattacharya, 3 years 223.47 Lakhs SERB-STUTI
Department Proficiency in North-East India. Associate Prof. of Mathematics
PI: Dr. Uttam Kumar Bera, Department and Dr. Paritosh
Assistant Prof. of Mathematics Bhattacharya, Assistant Prof. of
Dept. Mathematics Department.
5 Bio Engineering Characterization and PI: Dr. Tarunkanti 3 years 231.54847 DST
popularization of Spirulina Bandyopadhyay, Associate Prof. Lakhs
biomass cultivation as viable of Chemical Engineering &
product and commercial HOD of Bio Engineering
exploitation of Spirulina Department.
biomass towards product
development.
6 Chemistry Development of Metal PI: Dr. Mitali Saha, 2 Years 16.86 Lakhs Central Power
Nanocomposites for the Associate Professor of Research
Enhancement of Efficiency of Chemistry Department. Institute(CPRI)
Solar Cell.
19

--- Page 20 ---
7 Civil Flood Risk Assesment of Barak PI: Dr. Sushant Biswal, Assistant May 2022 Rs.47,015.00 ISRO
Engineering Basin in Assam State-A Prof. of CE Departement.
geospatial approach. Co-PI: Dr. Mrinmoy Majumder,
Associate Prof. of CE Dept.
8 Civil Knowledge Guided GIS based PI: Dr. Umesh Mishra, Professor May 2022 Rs.4,35,240.00 ISRO
Engineering Hydro-geochemical modeling of CE Dept.
to understand the sources & Co-PI: Dr. Susahant Biswal,
amp; contril of Arsenic (As) Assistant Prof. of CE
contamination in Groundwater Department. Dr. Priyanka
of Tripura Choudhury, Assistant Prof. of
ECE Department.
9 Mathematics Long Term Trend in Weather PI: Dr. Paritosh Bhattacharya, Oct 2022 Rs.5,71,975.00 ISRO
Department Parameters and Atmosheric Associate Prof. of Mathematics
Chemistry and its Effect on Tea Dept.
Cultivation over North-East Co-PI: Dr. Umesh Mishra,
India. Professor of CE Dept.
10 Civil Optimal resource planning in PI: Dr. Mrinmoy Majumder, May 2022 Rs.3,90,000.00 ISRO
Engineering the jurisdiction of Agartala Associate Prof. of CE Dept.
Municipal Corporation (AMC) Dr. Manish Pal, Professor of CE
using Geo Spatial techniques. Dept.
11 Electronics And Applicability of Applicability of Electromagnetic May 2022 Rs.2,00,000.00 ISRO
Communication Electromagnetic Metamaterials Metamaterials in Antennas and
Engineering in Antennas and Microwave Microwave Circuits for use in
Circuits for use in space space applications.
applications.
12 Electronics And Development of an Integrated, PI: Dr. Mitra Barun Sarkar, May 2022 Rs.3,08,619.00 ISRO
Communication Miniature and Portable Air Assistant Prof of ECE Dept.
Engineering Pollution Monitoring System. Co-PI: Dr. Sambhu Nath
Pradhan, Associate Prof. of ECE
Dept.
Dr. Apurba Chakroborty,
Assistant Prof. of ECE Dept.
Dr. Paritosh Bhattacharya,
Associate Prof. of Mathematics
Dept.
20

--- Page 21 ---
Mr. Biman Debbarma, Assistant
Prof. of ECE Dept.
13 Electronics Finding suitable precursors for PI: Dr. Jayanta Kumar Rakshit, December 2022 Rs.2,05,239.00 ISRO
& Earthquakes for North Eastern Assistant Prof. of EIE Dept.
Instrumentation Region Co-PI: Dr. Paritosh
Engineering Bhattacharya, Associate Prof. of
of Mathematics Department.
TOTAL Rs.551.00 Lakhs
21

--- Page 22 ---
Sponsored Research Project, Year 2020-21
Sl. Department Title PI & Co-PI Duration Sanctioned Funding Agency
No Amount
(Lakhs)
1 Civil Preparation of state specific Dr. Mrinmoy Majumder, 12 Months from the 29.40 Lakhs SSAP
Engineering Action Plan (SSAP) for water Associate Prof. of CE date of release of 1st ( State Specific
sector of Tripura State. Mou Department . installment. Action Plan)
No.022/MoU/CE/PWD(WR)/2
019-20, MoU signed on
14.02.2020.
Nodal Officer, SSAP,NIT
Agartala:
TOTAL R s . 2 9 . 4 0 L a k h s
22

--- Page 23 ---
Sponsored Research Project, Year 2019-20
Sl. Department Title PI & Co-PI Duration Sanctioned Funding Agency
No Amount
(Lakhs)
1 Civil Sustainable production of algal PI: Prof. Umesh Mishra, 2.5 Year 15.916 Lakhs DBT
Engineering biomass for production of Civil Engg. Dept.
biofuels :A holistic approval Co-PI:Dr.
with bioremediation & Muthusivaramadian, Asst. Prof.
economical harvesting Of Bio Engg Dr.Biswanath
technique . Bhunia, Asst. Prof. Of Bio Engg,
Dr Selvaraju N, Asst. Prof of Bio
Engg IIT Guwahati .
2 Civil Developing a methodology for PI: Dr. Ratul Das, Professor of 2 years 4.00 Lakhs ICSSR
Engineering Self-cleansing of urban strom Civil Engineering Dept.
water drainage system a
scientific approach for
greening smart city
3 Chemical Removal of methylene blue PI: Dr. Ajay Kumar Manna, 2 years 9.45875 Lakhs DBT
Engineering dye from aqueous medium by Assistant Prof. of Chemical Engg
biochar adsorbent prepared Dept.
from bio-sludge of Indian
Standard Natural Rubber plant
in Tripura.
4 Physics Development of a Low Cost PI: Dr. Suvra Prakash Mondal 3 years 55.18832 SERB
Highly Sensitive and Selective Assistant Prof. Of Physics Dept. Lakhs
Nitric Oxide (NO) Sensor for
Asthma Diagnosis .
5 SOM Skill Development in Tripura: PI: Dr. Anirban Dutta , 1 Year 04.5 Lakhs ICSSR
Analysis on problems, Assistant Prof. SOM & H&SS
challenges and opportunities . Dept.
Co-PI: Dr. Mili Kar, Assistant
Prof. SOM & H&S Dept.
23

--- Page 24 ---
6 Civil Demographic Profile of PI: Dr. Debdulal Tripura, 06 Months 5.00 Lakhs Tribal Research
Engineering Scheduled tribes of Associate Professor CE Dept. and Cultural
Tripura(1901-2018) Institute
7 Civil Flood Risk Assessment of PI: Dr. S.K. Biswal, Assistant 12 months 3.00 Lakhs ISRO
Engineering Barak Basin in Assam State - Prof. of CE Dept.
A geospatial approach Co-PI: Dr. Mrinmoy Majumder,
Associate Professor CE Dept.
8 Civil Knowledge Guided GIS based PI: Dr. Umesh Mishra, Professor 24 months 21.041 Lakhs ISRO
Engineering Hydro-geochemical modeling of CE Dept.
to understand the sources & Co- PI: Dr. S.K. Biswal, Assistant
amp; control of Arsenic (As) Prof. of CE Dept.
contamination in Groundwater Dr. Priyanka Choudhury,
of Tripura Assistant Prof. of ECE Dept.
9 Mathematics Long Term Trend in Weather PI: Dr. Paritosh Bhattacharya, 36 months 19.804 Lakhs ISRO
Departments Parameters and Atmospheric Associate Prof of Mathematics
Chemistry and its Effect on Dept.
Tea Cultivation over North- Co- PI: Dr. Umesh Mishra,
East India Professor of CE Dept.
10 Civil Optimal resource planning in PI: Dr. Mrinmoy Majumder, 24 months 16.36 Lakhs ISRO
Engineering the jurisdiction of Agartala Associate Professor CE Dept.
Municipal Corporation (AMC) Co-PI: Dr. Manish Pal, Professor
using Geo Spatial techniques. of CE Dept.
11 Electronics And Design and Development of PI: Dr. Sambhu Nath Pradhan, 18 months 13.00 Lakhs ISRO
Communication High Data Rate Demodulator. Associate Professor ECE Dept.
Engineering CO-PI: Dr. Tamasi Moyra
(Panua), Assistant Prof. of ECE
Dept.
Mr.Anirban Bhattacharjee,
Assistant Prof. of ECE Dept.,
Dr. Abhishek Nag, Assistant Prof.
of ECE Dept.
24

--- Page 25 ---
12 Electronics And Applicability of PI: Dr.Tamasi Moyra (Panua), 24 months 24.0352 Lakhs ISRO
Communication Electromagnetic Assistant Prof. of ECE Dept.
Engineering Metamaterials in Antennas and CO-PI: Mr. Anirban
Microwave Circuits for use in Bhattacharjee, Assistant Prof. of
space applications. ECE Dept.
13 Electronics And Development of an Integrated, PI: Dr. Mitra Barun Sarkar, 24 months 24.0352 Lakhs ISRO
Communication Miniature and Portable Air Assistant Prof. of ECE Dept.
Engineering Pollution Monitoring System CO-PI: Dr. Sambhu Nath
Pradhan, Assistant Prof. of ECE
Dept.
Dr. Apurba Chakraborty,
Assistant Prof. of ECE Dept.,
Dr. Paritosh Bhattacharya,
Assistant Prof. of Mathematics
Dept.
Mr. Biman Debbarma, Assistant
Prof. of ECE Dept.
14 Mathematics Finding suitable precursors for PI: Dr. Jayanta Kumar Rakshit, 24 months 10.184 Lakhs ISRO
Departments Earthquakes for North Eastern Assistant Prof. of EIE Dept.
Region CO-PI: Dr. Paritosh
Bhattacharya, Associate Prof. of
Mathematics Department.
TOTAL Rs. 225.53 Lakhs
25

--- Page 26 ---
Sponsored Research Project, Year 2018-19
Sl. Department Title PI & C0-PI Duration Sanctioned Funding Agency
No. Amount
(Rs.)
1 Bio Enhancing the productivity of PI: Dr. Tarun Kanti 3 years 51.29996 DBT
Engineering phycobiliproteins (C-PCs) and Bandypadhyay, Lakhs
Cyanocobalamin(Vitamin B ) Assistant Prof. Of Bio
12
in selected cyanobacteria for Engg. Dept.
valorization and development Co-PI: Dr.Biswanath
of functional foods. Bhunia, Assistant Prof. Of
Bio Engg. Dept.
Co-PI: Dr. Radha Prasanna,
Division of Microbiology
Indian Agriculture
Research Institute , New
Delhi.
Co-PI: Dr. AbhijitMondal ,
Assist. Prof. Chemical
Engg. Dept.
2 Electronics Polarization conversion and PI: Dr. Jayanta Kumar 3 years 26.39086 SERB
& rotation using micro-ring Rakshit, Asstt. Prof in Lakhs
Instrumentation resonator and its application to Electronics&
Engineering design binary and multi-valued Instrumentation
logic circuits in optical domain. Engineering Dept.
3 Civil Evaluation of a strengthening PI: Dr. Deb Dulal Tripura, 3years 33.4 SERB
Engineering scheme for hollow compressed Assoc. Prof.in Civil Engg. Lakhs
earth block wall using fibres, Dept
bamboo and steel bars.
26

--- Page 27 ---
4 Chemistry Spatial distribution of uranlum PI: Dr. T.K. Mishra , 2 years 19.06575 BRNS
and associated water quality Associate Prof. of Lakhs
parameters of all districts of Chemistry Department.
Tripura.
5 Bio Multi-drug delivery with nano- PI: Dr. Tridib Kumar 2 years 15.24 Lakhs ICMR
Engineering sized carrier particles for Bhowmick, Asstt. Prof in
combination therapy in Bio Engineering Dept
tuberculosis.
6 Computer IoT based Traffic Monitoring PI: Dr. Ashim Saha 2years 10.172 Lakhs DST
Science& System for hilly roads of North- Assistant Prof. CSE Dept. (1styear 5.204
Engineering East India . Lakhs)
7 Chemical Technology development for PI: Dr. Kalyan Gayen 3 years 32.2272 SERB
Engineering the production of natural Assistant Prof. Of Chemical Lakhs
colorant (chlorophyll) from Engg Dept.,
isolated microalgae Co-PI Dr. Miraganka
Sekhar Manna,
Assistant Prof. Of Chemical
EnggDept.,
Dr.TridibKumar
Bhowmick, Assistant Prof.
Of Bio Engg Dept.,
27

--- Page 28 ---
8 Civil Mitigating scarcity of stone PI: Dr .Partha Pratim 3 years 24.85435 DST
Engineering aggregates in pavement Sarkar Lakhs
construction using locally Associate Prof. Civil Engg.
available materials & Dept.
stabilization techniques.
TOTAL Rs.212.65 Lakhs
28

--- Page 29 ---
Sponsored Research Project, Year 2017-18
Sl. Department Title PI & Co-PI Duration Sanctioned Funding Agency
No Amount
(Rs.)
1 Physics Development of organometallic PI: Dr. BiswajitSaha, Asstt. Prof 3 years 16.5 Lakhs CSIR
nano-composites and scientific in Phy. Dept. Govt. of India
investigation on their Co.PI: Dr.Animesh Debnath,
functionalization towards improved Asstt. Prof in CE Dept.
adsorptive removal of toxic dyes for
application in industrial wastewater
treatment.
2 Civil Hydraulic model study of flow PI: Dr. S. K. Biswal, 3 years 31.427 SERB DST
Engineering dynamics & bed morphology Asst. Prof.in Civil Engg. Dept. Lakhs
evolution of the Gomati river of
Tripura at the Pitra-Gang
confluence .
3 Mathematics Design development & PI: Dr. Subarna Maiti, 2 Years 21.4 Lakhs Jointly With
demonstration of Solar dryer Dr.Paritosh Bhattacharya (Joint CSIR- CSMCRI
suitable for drying natural rubber PI),Associate Prof. in & NIT Agartala
sheets in north east India, Mathematics Dept. MNRE
4 Computer IMPRINT development of a PI: Prof. Rajlakhmi Guha 2 Years 5.79941 Lakhs IMPRINT
Science & indigenous assistive system and (Co-PI) , IIT Kharagpur.
Engineering tools for the disabled community in Prof. M. Balakrishnan ,IIT
India. Delhi,
Porf. Anil Prabhankar , IIT
Madras ,
Co-PI: Dr. Suman Deb ,
Assistant Prof. Of CSE Dept.
5 Civil Geoscientific Studies-Geodetic, PI: Dr. Sujit Kumar. Pal, 2 Years 18.548 Lakhs DST
Engineering geological, geomorphological and Associate. Prof.in Civil Engg.
geotechnical of active landslides Dept.
6 Civil Safe road connectivity for Tripura PI: Dr.Mukti Advani 3year 20.35 Lakhs CSIR
29

--- Page 30 ---
Engineering Sate of North Region of India Senior Scientist,CSIR- Govt.of India
CRRI,New Delhi
Co-PI: Dr.Partha Pratim Sarkar
Asst. Prof.in Civil Engg. Dept
7 Electrical Development of Bessel Beam based PI: Dr.Ardhendu Saha, Assoc. 3 years 63.90535 SERB
Engineering Fiber Optic Biosensor for Early Prof.in EE Dept. Lakhs
Detection of Breast Cancer Co-PI:Dr.Biswanath Bhunia,
Asstt. Prof in Bio-Engg. Dept.
8 Bio On field application of Fold scope PI: Dr.Tridib Kumar Bhowmick 1 year 8.0 Lakhs DBT
Engineering for rapid collection of microalgae Asstt. Prof in Bio Engineering
samples. Dept.
&Dr.Kalyan Gayen, Asstt. Prof
in Chemical Engineering Dept.
TOTAL Rs. 185.93 Lakhs
30

--- Page 31 ---
4.2 Research Publication in SCI & SCOPUS Index Journals:
300
250
n
o 200
it
a
c
ilb
u
P
f o 150
r SCI
e
b
m
SCOPUS
u
N
la 100
t
o
T
50
0
2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22
Financial Year
31

--- Page 32 ---
4.3 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHT POLICY (2020)
1. IPR, NITA CORE COMMITTEE MEMBERS
1. Dean Research and Consultancy NIT Agartala, Chairman
2. Dr. Baby Bhattacharya, Associate Professor & HOD, Department of Mathematics,
Convenor
3. Dr. Mitali Saha, Associate Professor & HOD, Department of Chemistry, Member
4. Dr. Subhadeep Bhattacharjee, Associate Professor & HOD, Department of Electrical
Engineering, Member
5. Dr. Suvra Prakash Mondal, Assistant Professor, Department of Physics, Member
2. IPR, NITA INVITEE MEMBERS
1. Dr. Partha Pratim Sarkar, Associate Professor, Department of Civil Engineering
2. Dr. Srimanta Ray, Assistant Professor & HOD, Department of Chemical
Engineering
3. Dr. Ashim Saha, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and
Engineering
4. Dr. Biswanath Bhunia, Assistant Professor, Department of Bioengineering
3. IPR, STANDING COMMITTEE (IPR SC)
1. Ex -Officio – Dean(R&C) - Chairman
2. Associate Dean(R&C) - Member
3. Director’s Nominee - Member
4. Two members from IPR Cell (to be nominated by the Chairman) - Member
5. Chairman Incubation & Start-up Cell, NITA - Member-Secretary.
This IPR Standing Committee will be formed by Dean(R&C), as the Ex-officio Chairman of the
Committee. This IPRSC will be responsible for detailed formation of procedure, policy decisions and
amendment of IPR policy to facilitate implementation of the IPR policy of NITA.
32

--- Page 33 ---
INTRODUCTION
National Institute of Technology Agartala (hereafter referred to as ‘NITA’) is an academic Institute
dedicated to excellence in teaching and research. Its activities, centred on faculty/students/ /project
staff/ supporting staff/visitors are based on knowledge and intellectual exercise. In the era of
technology domination, where values and perceptions change at brisk pace, National Institutes of
Technology, in particular, have to preserve the fundamental spirit of academics on one hand and
have to march ahead, on the other, accepting changing realities of business economy based on
knowledge generated, protected and disseminated under the intellectual property regime. In the
evolving scenario of the world today, with increasing awareness of the ‘knowledge asset’, an
Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) Policy is needed not only to preserve the interest of NITA but
also to make NITA faculty/students /project staff/ supporting staff/ visitors aware of ‘knowledge
asset and its impact on the society’.
OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the policy are as follows:
a. To create awareness among the students, staff and faculty likewise about the IP.
b. To provide an encouraging environment for research and development for generation of IP
to the faculty, students and other researchers associated with NIT Agartala.
c. To provide support in every possible way to the inventors of the IP associated with NITA
and safeguard the IP developed.
d. To formulate the regulations and guidelines regarding ownership of the IP and revenue
sharing upon commercial exploitation of the IP.
e. To provide legal support to the inventors against any case of unauthorized use of IP.
DEFINITIONS
1. “Intellectual property” is defined as the tangible or intangible results of research,
development, teaching, or other intellectual activity and includes patents, copyrights, designs,
trademarks, service marks, logos etc. Any additional information regarding these intellectual
properties can be obtained from the website of Controller General of Patents, designs and
trademarks.
33

--- Page 34 ---
2. “Copyright” means the exclusive right granted by law for a certain period of time to an author
to reproduce, print, publish and sell copies of his or her creative work. Copyright protection is
available for most literary, musical, dramatic, and other types of creative work, including software,
teaching materials, multimedia works, proposals, and research reports.
3. “Creator” means any employee of the NITA and includes those who are on probation, those
who are employed on temporary basis wither in the institute and/ or in projects and those who are
research workers, research scholars or students who are responsible for the creation of an
Intellectual Property, using the facilities of the Institute.
4. “Inventor” is the person/s who has something new with utilization of their creative minds.
5. “Patent” means a patent granted under the provision of the Indian Patent Act, 1970.
6. “Patentee” means the person for the time being entered on the Register of Patents kept under
the Indian Patents Act, 2002 as the generator or proprietor of the patent.
7. “Revenue” is any payment received as per an agreement by the Institute usually for legal use of
an Intellectual Property through a license.
8. “Trademark” is a distinctive word, symbol or picture or a combination of these, which is used
by a business entity to discriminate its products and services from those of other business entities.
EVALUATION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
The evaluation committee comprised of the IPR Standing Committee members along with the
HOD of the respective Departments and invitee members having expertise in the relevant fields
will be responsible for clarification of the issues/appeals related to IPR patent/copy write
application, formulating the procedures of filling and to ensure the compliance of IPR policy of
NITA following the legislations covering IPRs in India. Legal Advisor as invitee member may be
included by the chairman of the committee as and when required. The Chairman IPRSC will
form the evaluation committee on case to case basis.
The function of IPR Evaluation Committee would be the following:
a) To assess the proposals for filing of IPR .
b) Finalize the procedures and guidelines for the effective implementation of the IPR policy at
NITA.
c) Track the various IPs filed using MIS facility available at the institute for speedy IP process
if required and to facilitate IP protection by drafting agreements.
34

--- Page 35 ---
d) To collaborate with organizations for filing, licensing/assigning of IPR to generate revenue
through commercialization. Efforts may be made for the commercialization of the patent
through start-up cell of NIT Agartala as far as possible.
e) To implement the IPR policy in a proactive manner for the shared benefits of both the
inventor and institute, identification and reporting of issues related to the violation of IPR
policy of the Institute to the Director for necessary action.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OWNERSHIP
a) NIT Agartala will have the ownership rights on the IP that is developed by the
students, faculty, staff, or any external personnel who not related to the institute but
uses significant resources (funds or facilities) available with the institute with due
recognition to the inventors of the IP and protection of the ownership rights of the
inventor(s). NIT Agartala will work towards protection through legal means of all IP
related to academic or professional field of the inventor(s) regardless of the medium
of expression when the inventor(s) is employed by the Institute and the IP shall be
jointly owned by the inventor/creator /originator/author and the Institute. In case the
IP was created by the inventor /creator/originator/author - when the Institute accepted
terms are different from that stated herein, the terms agreed to shall prevail.
b) However, in case a payment has been made by the individual to the institute for
utilization of facilities, NITA cannot claim the exclusivity in the ownership and hence
an agreement on mutual accord can be reached that provides joint ownership rights to
the inventor and NITA.
c) In case when an IP is developed/generated from research projects sponsored by
government/ non-government agencies will be owned by the creator(s), the Principal
Investigator or Chief Consultant, the Institute and the sponsoring agency. The
sponsoring agency will have to bear 50% of the protection cost or forgo the rights to
the IP. In case the project was accepted by the Institute under terms different from
that stated herein, the terms agreed to shall prevail. IP developed as a part of work
that has been funded by external agencies or consultancy, then a joint ownership must
be established with proper rights to license the innovation.
d) In issues of copyrightable material such as Patent software, lectures (video lectures),
books, circuit designs, images, etc developed by NITA personnel for use by external
agency or industry, the institute shall claim the rights for the ownership of the IP.
However, the developers shall be free to use the IP for research and teaching purposes
35

--- Page 36 ---
by reverse license agreement with NITA. Also, NITA reserves the right to use the IP
for academic purposes.
e) In case when IP is related to transfer of biological resource and associated knowledge,
inventor(s) has/have to ensure that the provisions under the national laws on
biodiversity and traditional knowledge are not violated during the course of securing
any IP protection or use of such knowledge. NITA affirms that it abides with the
national laws on biodiversity and traditional knowledge.
f) The inventor/developer/creator/originator of the IP shall hold the ownership rights if
the IP is developed beyond the regular assigned work or normal professional duty or
employment contract or without any significant use of institute’s resources and
facilities. In case the IP was created by the inventor/creator/originator/author when
the Institute accepted terms are different from that stated herein, the terms agreed to
shall prevail.
g) For thesis and dissertation reports related to academic activity, both student and
mentor/supervisor will hold the ownership rights. However, both should give a
royalty-free right to NITA to use the reports for academic purposes, as and when
required. A declaration for the same must be included in the thesis/dissertation
properly signed by the student, mentor or supervisor. Moreover, in case an application
has been made for grant of IP and not yet granted, an agreement for thesis/
dissertation confidentiality at the time of thesis/ dissertation submission should also
be included.
CONFIDENTIALITY AND RIGHTS
a) For IP produced at NITA, the inventors interested to protect their intellectual creations
under IP law of the land will be required to disclose their IP to the IPR Cell of NITA.
b) The institute may appoint an advocate/attorney to draft the IPR application as appropriate
for the invention if required.
c) All fees related to the IPR (patent, copy right, Trademark), process (filling, Request for
examination etc.), IP databases, IP search, prior art etc may be born from Institute fund
(Overhead cost of funded Research Projects).Any legal fees (lawyer, attorney, agent etc.)
may be borne by Institute subject to the recommendation of IPRSC and approval/discretion
of the authority.
d) In any case, if the evaluation committee decides against the IP evaluation, all these costs
have to be borne by the inventor personally, in that NITA will agree to forgo the ownership
to the inventor, provided that substantial institute’s resources are not involved in the IP. The
36

--- Page 37 ---
inventors, both NITA and non-NITA personnel, shall maintain confidentiality of the IP
during the period when efforts are made for protecting and commercialization of the IP.
e) Funds provided partially or fully by a third-party to NITA will be as per rules based on the
contract been the third party and NITA.
DISCLOSURES AND CONFIDENTIALITY
Following procedure should be followed for disclosure of the IP by the inventors.
a) For all the IP produced and developed at the institute, i.e. NITA, the inventors have to
disclose the IP to Dean (R&C) in a proper format (IP disclosure form) if the inventor choose
to protect their intellectual creations under IP law of the land. Along with this disclosure, the
inventors would need to assign the rights of the IP to NITA as per IP Ownership Right
described earlier in this document. Similarly, the students of the institute are expected to
submit their IP disclosure form along with their thesis work (B.Tech, BSMS, MSc, M.Tech
or PhD) properly signed and forwarded by their supervisor and followed by head of the
department to Dean R&C. It would be the responsibility of the institute to maintain the
confidentiality of the IP, once it has been submitted to the committee for
evaluation/assessment/filing and possibility of commercialization.
b) For all the IP generating from the externally funded projects and collaborative project, the IP
disclosure shall be done as per the terms and conditions of the contract. In case, where such
terms and conditions of the contract is not in place, the institute policy shall prevail.
REVENUE SHARING
a) Upon commercialization of the intellectual property developed at the institute, the
revenue generated from the royalty payments would be shared between the institute
and the inventors.
b) In case of owner/multiple owners of the IP other than the institute, the owners and the
Institute shall come to an agreement before filing the IP as to how to share the revenue.
In case of multiple originators of an IP, if the inventors/originators fail to arrive at a
consensus, the IPR Cell will analyze all available information and make a
recommendation about the revenue sharing to the Director, NITA. The decision of the
Director, NITA shall be final and binding .
c) NITA reserves the right to determine the share of the different stakeholders involved
in IP creation and dissemination from time to time. Revenue share of the inventor(s)
shall continue even after their association with NITA ends.
37

--- Page 38 ---
POLICY FOR IP LICENSING AND ASSIGNING FOR START‐ UP VENTURES WITH
INVOLVEMENT OF INVENTOR(S) FROM NITA
In order to encourage commercialization of IP registered and owned by NITA, inventor(s) of such
IPs shall be encouraged to promote a start up company (following the guidelines established by
NITA) for developing a business proposition leveraging the IP under consideration. For this
purpose, the start up can also be accommodated at the Technology Business Incubator Unit
(TBIU) / Innovation Park/ Research Park at NITA, if so desired by the Inventor(s), after critical
appraisal of the Business Plan following the applicable procedures, if any framed by NITA.
The start ups in the specified instances shall be licensed IPs owned by NITA on a limited
exclusivity basis initially for a period of 3 years. The licensing fee may be decided depending on
the nature of funding available for such a venture including the possibility of making the know
how/technology available, even without any license fee in a particular case. However, all such
licensing should be accompanied by an appropriate agreement and a monitoring mechanism.
During the limited exclusivity period, the start up shall have ‘no rights to give sub license’ to any
third party.
Once the start up venture establishes the commercial viability within the said exclusivity period,
the license agreement shall be revised and modified into exclusive over an extended period
mutually decided for a royalty consideration by the parties. In case the start up fails to achieve
commercial breakthrough within the allotted period, the exclusivity of the license to the start up
shall be forfeited.
Further, as any entity set up under the TBIU is an independent commercial entity, NITA would not
have any rights to IP/Know how developed within the entity unless covered by an explicit
agreement.
CONFLICT OF INTERST, DISPUTES AND JURISDICTION
a) It is the responsibility of the inventors to disclose any conflict of interest or potential conflict
of interest to the evaluation committee prior to applying for examination/ consideration. In
case of any dispute, the aggrieved party may contact the Director NITA. In all circumstances,
the decision taken by the Director NITA would be final and abiding by all.
b) The inventor(s) may appeal to the Director NITA on the occurrence of any disputes between NITA
and the inventors regarding the implementation of the IPR policy. The Director’s decision would be
38

--- Page 39 ---
final and binding on both institute and inventor. All the agreements or contracts signed by NITA will
be under the jurisdiction of Courts at Agartala only.
ANNEXURE -I
Intellectual property disclosure form
Title of the Invention ………………………………………………………………..
Name and Affiliation of Inventor(s) …………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………….
Brief description of the invention
Describe the invention so that the other faculty who are knowledgeable in the field can evaluate
the technical and commercial merits of the invention.
a) How does this invention relate to new processes, machines, compositions of matter?
b) How is the present invention an improvement over existing comparable invention?
c) Has the invention been tested experimentally? Are experimental data available?
d) Has invention been patented or protected under confidentiality agreement?
(Please attach sketches, drawing, photographs and other materials that illustrate the
description).
Commercial Potential
a) What are the possible uses / application areas and / or product you feel may embody
aspects of your invention?
b) Who is the possible end –users of the product?
Prior disclosure and possible Intent
a) Has the invention been disclosed to industry representatives or third parties? if yes, Name
companies and specific individuals and their titles.
b) Has any commercial interest been shown in it and of what nature?
…..
39

--- Page 40 ---
UNDERTAKING
I /We the undersigned, hereby certify that the Work ____________________________ has
been undertaken by the undersigned at NITA, making use of significant use of NITA
resources.
I/ We hereby agree to abide by the provision of the intellectual property policy of the Institute.
Signed this ______________ day of _______________ (Month),__________
(Year)________
Name:
Address:
40

--- Page 41 ---
4.4 PATENT STATUS OF NIT AGARTALA
18
) 16
d
e
t
n
a
r G14
d
n
a
d
e12
h
s
ilb
u
P10
,d Filed
e
liF
Published
(
8
s
t Granted
n
e
t
a 6
P
f
o
r
e
b 4
m
u
N
2
0
2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22
Financial Year
41