
--- Page 1 ---
Objectives of the FDP CHIEF PATRON
This Faculty Development Program (FDP) aims to Prof. S. K. Patra, Director, NIT Agartala
provide educators, researchers, and industry Prof. P. K. Jain, Director, NIT Patna
professionals with a comprehensive understanding of Two Week Online Faculty Development
PATRON
synergy of artificial intelligence (AI) and electric
Program on
vehicle (EV) technologies for the evaluation of next- Prof. Arvind K. Jain, HoD, EED, NIT Agartala
generation smart energy systems. The program Dr. R. K. Mandal, Head, EED, NIT Patna AI and EV Synergy: Driving the
focuses on the role of AI and EV technology with grid
Evolution of Next-Gen
Resource Persons
connected and isolated smart energy system.
Smart Energy Systems
Participants will learn about the latest advancements Prof. Subhash Lakshminarayana, University of Warwick,
EV technology and AI applications for exploring their U.K.
7th July – 18th July 2025
integration in smart energy grids. The FDP blends Ex. Prof. S. P. Singh, IIT(BHU), Varanasi
theory with practical applications, fostering a Prof. Trapti Jain, IIT Indore Under the aegis of
collaborative environment for research and innovation Prof. Ankush Sharma, IIT Kanpur Electronics and ICT academy, Phase-II
in AI driven smart energy systems with EV Prof. S. R. Mohanty, IIT(BHU), Varanasi at National Institute of Technology Patna,
technologies. Prof. Naran M. Pindoriya, IIT Gandhinagar
Jointly organized by
Prof. Arvind Kumar Jain, NIT Agartala
The FDP aims to disseminate knowledge in the
following areas and explore potential research Dr. Vijay Babu P., SIT, Singapore National Institute of Technology Agartala.
opportunities within these fields. Dr. Veerapandian Veerasamy, NTU Singapore and
Prof. Saurabh Chanana, NIT Kurukshetra
➢ Applications of AI and ML methods in control and National Institute of Technology Patna.
Prof. Priyanath Das, NIT Agartala
optimization of smart energy systems.
Dr. Gururaj Mirle Vishwanath, IIT Kanpur Supported by
➢ Fundamentals of Deep Learning and Recent
Dr. Avneet Kumar, IIT Patna
Trends. Ministry of Electronics and Information
Dr. Parikshit Pareek, IIT Roorkee
➢ EV charging infrastructure and standards. Technology (MeitY), Govt. of India
Dr. ESN Raju P, IIT Guwahati
➢ Smart power converter system for EV synergy.
Dr. Munendra Singh, NIT Jamshedpur
➢ IoT driven V2G/G2V and V2X Technologies. Conveners
Dr. Abanishwar Chakrabarti, NIT Agartala
➢ AI driven battery management systems.
Dr. Bikram Das, NIT Agartala Prof. Arvind Kumar Jain, NIT Agartala
➢ Information communication technology (ICT) and
Protocols for Smart Energy Systems
Dr. Omkar Yadav, NIT Durgapur Dr. Padmagirisan P., NIT Agartala
Dr. Amit Kumar Thakur, GE Vernova Noida
➢ AI driven anomaly detection, classification and Coordinators
Dr. Devesh Shukla, NIT Calicut
mitigation methods for smart energy grids
➢ HIL and PHIL implementation of smart energy Dr. Saran Satsangi, NIT Patna Dr. SHAILENDRA SINGH
Dr. Pawan Kumar, NIT Patna
systems in real-time simulation environment. Assistant Prof., EE Deptt., NIT Agartala
Dr. Aasim, NIT Patna
➢ Lab Session/Hands on co-simulation platforms and
Dr. Sadhan Gope, NIT Agartala
such as OpenDSS- Python- MATLAB etc. Dr. SARAN SATSANGI
Dr. Shailendra Singh, NIT Agartala
➢ Pedagogy/writing tools Assistant Prof., EE Deptt., NIT Patna
Dr. P. Padmagirisan, NIT Agartala

--- Page 2 ---
About Electronics & ICT Academy About NIT Agartala Who Can Participate
Faculty members, research scholars of recognized
The Ministry of Electronics and Information Established in 1965 as Tripura Engineering College. Later,
universities from India and abroad, and industry personnel.
Technology, Government of India has instituted seven the Government of India converted the Tripura
Selection will be made on the first-come-first-serve basis
Electronics and Information & Communications Engineering College to National Institute of Technology
to a maximum number of 200.
Technology (ICT) Academies of which, the academy of Agartala on 1st April 2006. NIT Agartala is an Institute of
NIT Patna is one. The Academy at NIT Patna aims to National Importance was instituted by under the Ministry Registration Fee
design and organize basic as well as specialized training of Education, Government of India with the mission to
India and SAARC Countries: Rs. 500 (Inclusive of GST)
programs and research promotion workshops in niche herald excellence in technical education and research in the
Other than SAARC countries: 60 USD (Inclusive of GST)
areas of electronics and ICT for the development of the North-East region. NIT Agartala offers undergraduate,
required knowledge base, skills, and tools to equip the postgraduate, and doctoral programs in various fields of Registration Process
teaching community with better knowledge and engineering, science, humanities, and management. The
The registration fee should be paid through bank transfer
understanding. institute is renowned for its academic excellence, research
or UPI. The account detail for this purpose is as follows:
initiatives, and industry collaborations. NIT Agartala
About NIT Patna
boasts state-of-the-art infrastructure, well-equipped Account Name: E and ICT Academy NIT Patna
The National Institute of Technology (NIT) Patna is one laboratories, and a conducive learning environment.
Account no: 50380476798
of India's most historic technical institutions, tracing its The Department of Electrical Engineering is established
IFSC Code: IDIB000B810
roots back to 1886, when it began as a pleaders' survey in 1965 under the aegis of Tripura Engineering College.
training school. Over time, it evolved into the Bihar The department offers four years B.Tech program in Bank Name: Indian Bank
College of Engineering Patna in 1924, making it the 6th “Electrical Engineering” and 2 years M.Tech programs in or
oldest engineering institute in the country. On 28th four specializations namely Power Systems, Power Scan QR code for payment
January 2004, the college was rechristened as NIT Patna, Electronics & Drives, Instrumentation Engineering, and
using UPI
becoming the 18th National Institute of Technology Integrated Energy Systems.
under the Ministry of Education, Government of India. • After the successful payment, take snapshot of payment
Details of FDP
NIT Patna has been a pioneer in technical education for proof with the transaction reference number, which is to
well over a century, offering undergraduate (UG), • The two-week (10 working days) training will be be uploaded in online registration form.
postgraduate (PG), and PhD programs in engineering, conducted by a team of experts from both India & abroad, • Click the link below to proceed the registration
technology, science, and humanities. The institute possessing extensive experience in the theme of FDP.
https://forms.gle/LkbsqTfUkZ4d2Toa7
expanded its graduate-level offerings to include doctoral • Mode of Conduction: ONLINE.
• The online meeting link for FDP will be sent to the
programs in 1978, further strengthening its academic
• Session Timings:
selected candidates one day before the FDP.
portfolio. Located on the south bank of the holy river
Monday to Friday: 9.30 a.m. - 11.30 a.m.
Ganges, near the iconic Gandhi Ghat in Patna, the
& 3.30 p.m. - 5.30 p.m. Registration deadline: 30th June 2025 11:59 PM (IST)
institute stands as a symbol of both academic excellence
Saturday: 9.30 a.m. - 11.30 a.m., Sunday: No session
and cultural significance. With a mission to set high • The online training will include 24 hours of Theory
For any queries, please contact:
standards in education and research, NIT Patna is session, 16 hours of Lab session and 02 Hours on Dr. Shailendra Singh, NIT Agartala
actively involved in research and development (R&D), pedagogy/writing tools. Email: ssingh.nitaee@gmail.com,
pushing the boundaries of innovation across various • E-certificates will be given to participants who have
shailendra.ee@nita.ac.in
fields. It holds a distinguished reputation for its long attended more than 70% of the FDP sessions and
Dr. Saran Satsangi, NIT Patna
record of academic excellence. complete the given online assessments during FDP.
E mail: saran.ee@nitp.ac.in