
--- Page 1 ---
Page| 1
Masters (M.Tech)
Specialization in
Artificial Intelligence
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Computer Science and Engineering Department
http://www.nita.ac.in

--- Page 2 ---
Highlights of the Masters (M.Tech) Specialization in Arti昀椀ciPaagle | 2
Intelligence at NIT Agartala
100% placement

Advance curriculum

Excellent lab facility

Strong research group support

Major aspects of the programme,
1) Theoretical foundations: This will include the mathematical background re-
quired for the subjects.
2) Application of Theory: This will include courses where the fundamentals and
advanced concepts (subjects) could be implemented.
3) Thesis/Project Work: Covering the application of the concepts learned or re-
search, oriented work.
The programme is able to:
 Build mathematical foundations for studying AI. (Core subjects)
 Once the foundations are built, give options to the students to choose their do-
main of interest (Computer Vision, Speech, Text, Robotics etc.) so that they can
apply the concepts learned. (Elective subjects).
-
Post graduate Programs are aimed at providing in depth understanding and knowledge
to the students in technical, human, and conceptual skills necessary for the industries
with specializa琀椀on in di昀昀erent func琀椀onal areas like Ar琀椀昀椀cial Intelligence. The teaching
strategy for this program is oriented toward the applica琀椀on of structured knowledge
with live case studies, research and teaching aids.

--- Page 3 ---
Page| 3
Masters (M.Tech) in
Arti昀椀cial Intelligence
In the recent decades, arti昀椀cial intelligence, popularly
known as AI, has received much attention for its wide
- -
spread applications in real world problems of di-
verse domains. AI is a very broad 昀椀eld of study falling
under the rubric of Computer Science that aims at
solving computationally hard problems by mimicking
-
human like and biologically inspired approaches.
Theoretical aspects of AI include logic and reasoning, machine learning (ML), intel-
ligent search, intelligent planning, coordination and perception.
AI specialization is receiving much popularity for its scope of
About
handshaking with emerging areas like Data Science, Cognitive
Science and Robotics. This program would provide students an
opportunity to learn both foundation and experimental components of AI and Ma-
chine Learning. A student, on completion of this program, will be able to under-
-
take industry careers involving innovation and problem solving using Arti昀椀cial In-
telligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) technologies and research careers in AI,
ML, and Data Science, in general. Along with courses that provide specialization in
AI, students will also have option to explore some applied domains such as com-
puter vision, natural language processing, robotics, and software analysis etc.

--- Page 4 ---
Page| 4
Program Outcome for the M Tech. AI
PO1: To develop the ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, engineering sci-
ences for conducting independent research/investigation for solving practical prob-
lems.
PO2: To develop the ability to identify, formulate, conduct experiments, interpret
data, synthesise information, and analyse engineering problems by writing and
presenting an effective technical report/document.
PO3: To develop the ability to demonstrate mastery over the area as per the pro-
gram's specialisation. The knowledge should be at a level higher than the require-
ments in the appropriate bachelor's program.
-
PO4: To develop problem solving ability to design solutions for complex engineer-
ing problems in the context of societal and environmental commitments.
WHY
PO5: To demonstrate the capability of functioning effectively as a member or team
leader in software projects considering multidisciplinary environments, thus solving
-
real world multifaceted problems.
Why masters in Artificial
PO6: To develop design thinking capabilities for innovation and contribute to tech-
Intelligence?
nological knowledge and intellectual property development.
AI is an emerging field of tech-
nology that has brought impact
in multiple spheres and domain
of society.
1. High demand for both indus-
WHAT
try and academia across the
area of engineering and sci-
ence.
What is this Specializa-
WHO tion ? 2. Effective placement and in-
ternship opportunities with
It is 2 years Masters program top firms, startups and re-
Who can join this course ? highly focused to industrial and search organisation/ Indus-
academic research domain for tries.
Students with Bachelors degree
better employability and futuris-
in relevant fields of engineering 3. Higher studies in focused AI
tic academic program.
can join with valid GATE Score. domain has global ac-
ceptance and strong partner-
ship in between academia
and Industry.

--- Page 5 ---
Page| 5
Masters (M.Tech) in
Arti昀椀cial Intelligence
About NIT Agartala National Institute of Technology is a Centrally
Funded Institute having recognition of Institute of
National Importance being set up by Government
of India. By the span of development, this institute o昀昀ers B.Tech/BS-MS/BT-MT in 13 branches,
M.Tech/MSc in 24 specialization, Ph.D in all branches of Engineering, Science, Humanities and Manage-
ment, MBA, MCA. This institute produced 9350 Undergraduates, 2420 Post-graduates and 207 Ph.Ds.
Presently, 3409 undergraduate students, 838 Post graduate students and 275 Ph.D scholars are pur-
suing their studies in this institute. This institute is having 92nd position in NIRF (National Institutional
Ranking Framework) ranking with a remarkable placement records. It is situated 25km away from Agar-
tala City- State capital of Tripura and 5 km away from National Highway. Agartala is connected by Air,
Rail and Bus very e昀昀ectively.
Synopsys What is Arti昀椀cial Intelligence specialization : A program that focuses on
the symbolic inference, representation, and simulation by computers
and software of human learning and reasoning processes and capabil-
ities, and the computer modelling of human motor control and motion. Includes instruction
in computing theory, cybernetics, human factors, natural language processing, and applica-
-
ble aspects of engineering, technology, and speci昀椀c end use applications.[1]
It is also considered that , Arti昀椀cial intelligence (AI) systems are software (and possibly
also hardware) systems designed by humans that, given a complex goal, act in the physical
or digital dimension by perceiving their environment through data acquisition, interpreting
the collected structured or unstructured data, reasoning on the knowledge, or processing
the information, derived from this data, and deciding the best action(s) to take to achieve
the given goal. AI systems can either use symbolic rules or learn a numeric model, and they
can also adapt their behaviour by analysing how the environment is a昀昀ected by their previ-
ous actions.[2]
1 - National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), Classi昀椀cation of Instructional Programs
2 - European Commission, AI Watch

--- Page 6 ---
Page| 6
Core Faculty Group
-
Specialisa}on in Post graduate Programs are aimed at providing in depth understanding
and knowledge to the students in technical, human, and conceptual skills necessary for
the industries with specializa}on in di昀昀erent func}onal areas like Ar}昀椀cial Intelligence.
The teaching strategy for this program is oriented toward the applica}on of structured
knowledge with live case studies, research and teaching aids.
Sl. No. Name of the faculty member Area
1 Dr Diptendu Bha琀琀acharya So昀琀 Compu}ng, Time series, Computa}onal Intelli-
gence
2 Dr Swapan Debbarma NLP, High Performance Compu}ng
3 Dr Kunal Chakma Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Data Science,
NLP
4 Dr Anupam Jama}a NLP, Social Media Analy}cs, Machine Learning
5 Dr Dwijen Rudrapal NLP, Informa}on Retrieval, Text Analy}cs
6 Dr Suman Deb Visual Inference, Ar}昀椀cial Intelligence, Computer
Vision, Robo}cs, Context Based Reasoning
7 Dr Ashim Saha DBMS, IOT, Image Processing
8 Dr Nirmalya Kar Cyber Security
For details on faculty Please click here
Program Coordinator:
Dr. Suman Deb
Assistant Professor
Computer Science and Engineering Department
Associate Dean Academic,
Chairman Institute Innovation and Startup
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Tripura , India-799046
Phone: +91-9436459622 Email: sumandeb.cse@nita.ac.in
h琀琀ps://sumandeb.com/

--- Page 7 ---
Page| 7
Eligibility Criteria for Admission:
Admission is carried out through the central counselling CCMT. If seats are lying vacant, then ins琀椀tute ad-
mits the student through publica琀椀on /adver琀椀sement by NIT Agartala.
Scholarship: Students admi琀琀ed through CCMT/CCMN are eligible to get the monthly scholarship of
--
Rs.12400/ subject to ful昀椀llment of other criteria and 昀椀nancial availability from Ministry of Educa}on, Gov-
ernment of India.
Program dura琀椀on: Two years (Four Semester)
Program Structure: This program is having 80 credits where as 25 credits on 1st semester and 25 credits in
2nd semester, 10 credits in 3rd semester, 20 credits in 4th semester. In First year i.e. First and 2nd semester,
only theory and sessional classes are taking and in 2nd year (3rd and 4th semester), Project and thesis is being
carried out in the Industrial organiza}on or in the ins}tute on the proposed Research Topic so that at least
one Resource paper may be able to publish. The detailed credit, subject and syllabus of the program are
available in the department website.
Evalua琀椀on System: Con}nuous Evalua}on system is followed. Credit based Cumula}ve Grade Point Average
(CGPA) System along with SGPA (Semester Grade Point Average) system is adopted. Theory subjects are eval-
uated based on Internal Assessment (30 marks ), Mid Term Examina}on(20 marks ), and End Term Examina-
}on (50 marks ). Ques}ons are prepared following the Blooms Taxonomy sa}sfying the NBA pa琀琀ern. Project
and Thesis are being evaluated by an Evalua}on Commi琀琀ee where External Expert from renowned ins}tu-
}ons/organiza}ons like IITs, NITs, ONGCs are present to evaluate the works being carried out by the scholar
under the supervision of a faculty member.
The detailed evalua}on system is available in M.Tech Rules and Regula}on, 2017, which are found in our
website of NIT Agartala (www.nita.ac.in).
Lab Facili琀椀es
Exclusive Ar}昀椀cial Intelligence Lab dedicated for the specializa}on.
Placements and Internships: The ins琀椀tute is having dedicated training and placement department named
Career Counseling Department (CCD) though which students are being provided training, placements.
Previous batches having 100% Placement and ongoing students having internship in companies like Intel,
Google etc.

--- Page 8 ---
Page| 8
Course structure for M.Tech in
Artificial Intelligence
Department of CSE, NIT Agartala
Semester Subject L T P Cr. Class Marks
Hours per
week
First Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms 3 1 0 4 4 100
Ar}昀椀cial Intelligence 3 1 0 4 4 100
Computa}onal Methods of Op}miza}on 3 1 0 4 4 100
Elec}ve, I 4 0 0 4 4 100
Stochas}c Models and Applica}ons
Natural Language Processing
So昀琀 compu}ng
Data Mining
Pa琀琀ern Recogni}on
Elec}ve, II 4 0 0 4 4 100
Expert Systems
Computer Vision
Wireless Communica}on Network
Informa}on Retrieval
AI for Cyber Security
Laboratory I (Advanced Data Structures and Al- 0 0 2 2 3 100
gorithms)
Laboratory II (Ar}昀椀cial Intelligence) 0 0 2 2 3 100
Seminar 0 0 1 1 2 100
17 3 5 25 28 800
Total
Second Robo}cs and automa}on 3 1 0 4 4 100
Machine Learning 3 1 0 4 4 100
Computa}onal Linear Algebra 3 1 0 4 4 100
Elec}ve, III 4 0 0 4 4 100
Agent based intelligent system
Deep learning
Data Visualiza}on
Human Computer Interac}on
Embedded and Real}me System
-
Laboratory I (Robotics and Automation 0 0 2 2 3 100
Lab)
-
Laboratory II(Machine Learning) 0 0 2 2 3 100
Project Preliminaries 0 0 3 3 6 100
Comprehensive Viva 0 0 2 2 0 100
Total 13 3 9 25 28 800

--- Page 9 ---
Page| 9
Course structure for M.Tech in
Artificial Intelligence
Department of CSE, NIT Agartala
Se- Subject L T P Cr. Class Marks
me Hours
ster per
week
-
3 Project and Thesis Work I 0 0 10 10 FULL 100
*Students may go for industrial or inter in-
stitute collaboration, based Project work for
6 months to 1 year. The DPPC and con-
cerned local guide may be empowered to
recommend such provision.
All existing academic rules of institute will
prevail. The exact modalities may be recom-
mended by DPPC.
Total 0 0 10 10 100
Semester Subject L T P Cr. Class Marks
Hours
per
week
-
4 Project and Thesis Work II 0 0 20 20 FULL 300
*Students may go for industrial or
inter institute collaboration, based
Project work for 6 months to 1 year.
The DPPC and concerned local guide
may be empowered to recommend
such provision.
All existing academic rules of insti-
tute will prevail. The exact modalities
may be recommended by DPPC.
Total 0 0 20 20 300
Cumulative credit of the course
Semester-I 17 3 5 25 28 800
Semester -II 13 3 9 25 28 800
Semester -III 0 0 10 10 Full 100
Semester -IV 0 0 20 20 Full 300
Total 30 6 44 80 2000

--- Page 10 ---
Page| 10
Testimonial of Students
NIT Agartala is a place of great opportuni}es with an excellent learning environment. The master’s program in Com-
puter Science and Engineering provides a wide range of research areas to explore, along with advanced knowledge of
core subjects. The faculty members are very suppor}ve and always encourage the students to strive for excellence.
The departmental workshops, seminars, conferences etc. present a plavorm for gaining prac}cal knowledge and col-
-
labora}ng with experts around the world. Along with the well structured academic curriculum, the various cultural
and sports ac}vi}es provide a balanced environment for the students. I am thankful for the support and mentorship
-
from the faculty members and the research oriented program structure, which paved my way to pursue higher studies
and achieve bigger goals.
Dr. Mitali Sinha, 2016 Batch M.Tech Gold Medallist
NITA is a great spot in terms of learning and polishing the skills of an individual. The facul}es put tre-
mendous amount of e昀昀orts to make the courses more industrial oriented which help the students to
survive in this compe}}ve world. As a part of m.tech program I had an opportunity to work as a teach-
ing assistant under Prof Suman Deb who has been a mo}va}on throughout my journey.
Suraksha, 2017 Batch M.Tech Gold Medallist
Tutan Nama, presently I am a research scholar at IIT Kharagpur in the CSE Department. My area of reasearch in

--- Page 11 ---
Page| 11
Looking towards future and beyond
For admission related details please visit
https://nita.ac.in/NITAmain/admission/mtechadmission.html
For any query feel free to contact program Coordinator:
Dr. Suman Deb
Assistant Professor
Computer Science and Engineering Department
Associate Dean Academic,
Chairman Institute Innovation and Startup
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Tripura , India-799046
Phone: +91-9436459622 Email: sumandeb.cse@nita.ac.in
h琀琀ps://sumandeb.com/
Disclaimer: Any spelling mistake or content misplaced is to be considered uninten}onal human error. In few cases used openly availa-
ble vector graphics from web source. No copyright on graphics design is claimed.