
--- Page 1 ---
UUNNDDEERR GGRRAADDUUAATTEE SSYYLLLLAABBUUSS
DDDEEEPPPAAARRRTTTMMMEEENNNTTT OOOFFF EEELLLEEECCCTTTRRROOONNNIIICCCSSS AAANNNDDD
CCCOOOMMMMMMUUUNNNIIICCCAAATTTIIIOOONNN EEENNNGGGIIINNNEEEEEERRRIIINNNGGG
NNNAAATTTIIIOOONNNAAALLL IIINNNSSSTTTIIITTTUUUTTTEEE OOOFFF TTTEEECCCHHHNNNOOOLLLOOOGGGYYY AAAGGGAAARRRTTTAAALLLAAA
BBAARRJJAALLAA,, AAGGAARRTTAALLAA - 779999004466

--- Page 2 ---
B.TECH SYLLABUS FOR DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS AND
COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
Course Structure of B.Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering (3rd to 8th
Semester) from 2019-2020 Admission Batch Onwards.
3rd Semester L T P Total CR
1 Mathematics III 3 0 0 3
2 Data Structures and Algorithms 3 0 2 3+1
3 Semiconductor Devices 3 1 2 4+1
4 Analog Electronic Circuits-I 3 0 2 3+1
5 Network Analysis and Synthesis 3 1 2 4+1
6 Signals & Systems 3 1 0 4
25
4th semester
1 Engineering Economics & Accounts 3 0 0 3
2 Analog Electronic Circuits-II 3 0 2 3+1
3 Electromagnetic Theory & Antennas 3 1 2 4+1
4 Probability and Random processes 3 0 0 3
5 Digital Electronics 3 1 2 4+1
6 Control Systems 3 1 2 4+1
25
5th Semester
1 Industrial Management 3 0 0 3
2 Analog and Digital Communication 3 1 2 4+1
3 Electronic Instrumentation & Measurement 3 1 2 4+1
4 Digital Signal Processing 3 1 2 4+1
5 Microprocessor sand Microcontroller 4 0 2 4+1
23
6th semester
1 Microwave Engineering 3 1 2 4+1
2 Optical Fibre Communication 3 1 2 4+1
3 VLSI Technology 3 0 2 3+1
4 Information Theory & Coding 3 0 0 3
5 Data Communication Networks 3 0 2 3+1
21
7th Semester
1 Wireless Communication 3 0 2 3+1
2 Elective-I (Departmental) 3 0 0 3
3 Elective –II(Departmental/Open) 3 0 0 3
4 Project Preliminary 0 0 6 2
5 Industrial training and Seminar 0 0 2 1
13
8th semester
FOR STUDENTS UNDERGOING PROJECT WORK IN THE INSTITUTE
1 Elective- IV(Departmental) 3 0 0 3
2 Elective-V (Departmental/Open) 3 0 0 3
3 Elective –VI (Departmental/Open) 3 0 0 3
4 Project 0 0 9 3
5 Comprehensive Viva 0 0 0 1
13
FOR STUDENTS UNDERGOING PROJECT WORK IN THE INDUSTRY
1 Industrial Project 0 0 0 10

--- Page 3 ---
2 Project Seminar 0 0 0 2
3 Comprehensive Viva 0 0 0 1
13
TOTAL 120
ELECTIVE SUBJECTS OF 7th AND 8th SEMESTER
DEPARTMENTAL ELECTIVE
Sl. No. Course title
L T P CR
1 Advanced Digital Systems 3 0 0 3
2 Computer architecture 3 0 0 3
3 Embedded System Design 3 0 0 3
4 Advanced Semiconductor Devices 3 0 0 3
5 Advanced Control System 3 0 0 3
6 Low Power VLSI Circuits 3 0 0 3
7 Industrial Electronics 3 0 0 3
8 Detection and Estimation Theory 3 0 0 3
9 Radar & Navigation Systems 3 0 0 3
10 Smart Antenna 3 0 0 3
11 RF Circuits & Systems 3 0 0 3
12 Electronic System Design 3 0 0 3
13 Wireless Networks 3 0 0 3
14 Internet of Things 3 0 0 3
15 Adaptive Signal Processing 3 0 0 3

--- Page 4 ---
OPEN ELECTIVE
Sl. No. Course title L T P CR
1. Digital Image Processing 3 0 0 3
2. Machine learning & Artificial Intelligence 3 0 0 3
3. Fuzzy Logic and Neural Network 3 0 0 3
4. Laser and Nonlinear Optics 3 0 0 3
5. Nano‐Technology 3 0 0 3
6. Cryptography & Network security 3 0 0 3
7. Biomedical signal Processing 3 0 0 3
8. Operating Systems 3 0 0 3
9. Computational Electro magnetics 3 0 0 3
10. Digital Speech Processing 3 0 0 3
11. Object Oriented Programming 3 0 0 3
12. Robotics 3 0 0 3
13. Smart Grid Communication 3 0 0 3
14. VLSI for Wireless Communication 3 0 0 3

--- Page 5 ---
rd
3 SEMESTER
Mathematics-III
Mathematics-III L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
The objectives of the course Engineering Mathematics-III are:
 The main objective of this course is to provide students with the foundations of
probabilistic and statistical analysis mostly used in varied applications in engineering and
science like disease modeling, climate prediction and computer networks etc.
 Apply probability theory via Bayes’ Rule
 Describe the properties of discrete and continuous distribution functions.
 Use method of moments and moment generating functions.
 Apply the Central Limit Theorem.
 Use statistical tests in testing hypotheses on data.
 Introduce students to partial differential equations, and to solve linear Partial Differential
with different methods.
 Introduce students to some physical problems in Engineering and Biological models that
results in partial differential equations.
 Introduce the Fourier series and its application to the solution of partial differential
equations.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Probability and Random Variable: Axioms of probability, Conditional probability,
Independent events, Baye’s Theorem, Random variables, Probability mass function,
Probability density function - properties, Moments, Moment generating functions and their
properties.
Module-2
Standard Distributions: Binomial, Poisson Normal distribution and their properties,function of
random variables.
Module-3
Two-dimensional random variables: Joint distribution, Marginal and conditional distribution,
covariance, correlation and regression, Transformation of random variables, Central limit
theorem.

--- Page 6 ---
Module-4
Testing of hypothesis: Sampling distribution, testing of hypothesis of mean,
variance,proportion and differences using Normal, t and Chi-square.
Module-5
Fourier series: Periodic functions, Fourier series, Dirichlet’s conditions, functiondefined in
two or more sub-ranges, discontinuous functions, even function, odd function, halfrange
series, and change of interval.
Module-6
Partial Differential Equations:Order, Method of forming Partial Differential Equations,
Solution of Equation by Direct Integration, Lagrange’s Linear equation, Method of
Multipliers, Partial Differential equations non-linear in p,q, Charpits Method, Linear
Homogeneous Partial Differential equation, Non-Homogeneous Linear Equations, Method of
Separation of variables, Equation of vibrating string, Solution of wave equation
byD’Alembert’s method, One dimensional heat flow, Two dimensional Heat flow.
COURSE OUTCOME:
At the end of the course, students will be able to:
CO1: Understand the basic concepts of probability, random variables, probability distribution,
and moments and moment generating functions.
CO2: Define the basic discrete and continuous distributions such as normal, binomial,
Poisson, and make be able to apply them and simulate them in simple cases.
CO3: Explain the concepts of two dimensional random variable, independence, jointly
distributed random variables and conditional distributions, and use generating functions to
establish the distribution of linear combinations of independent random variables. Also State
the central limit theorem, and apply it.
CO4: Explain the concepts of random sampling, statistical inference and sampling
distribution, and state and use basic sampling distributions. Hypothesis testing and its
application in real life problems.
CO5: Find the Fourier series representation of a function of one variable, and find the solution
of the wave, diffusion and Laplace equations using the Fourier series.
CO6: Students familiarize with the fundamental concepts of Partial Differential Equations
(PDE) which will be used as background knowledge for the understanding of specialized
courses in Engineering. Students will master how solutions of PDEs are determined by
conditions at the boundary of the spatial domain and initial conditions at time zero.

--- Page 7 ---
Data Structures and Algorithm
Data Structures and Algorithms L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
 To impart a thorough understanding of linear data structures such as stacks, queues and
their applications.
 To impart a thorough understanding of non-linear data structures such as trees, graphs
and their applications.
 To impart familiarity with various sorting, searching and hashing techniques and their
performance comparison.
 To impart a basic understanding of memory management.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Concepts of data Structures- Information & Meaning, Abstract data Types.
Module-2
Linear Data Structures – Sequential RepresentationsArrays and Lists, Stacks, Queues and
Dequeues and their Applications; Linked Representations: Linear Linked List, Circular Linked
List, Doubly Linked List and their Applications.
Module-3
Nonlinear Data structures: Trees : Basic Terminologies; Binary trees: Properties, Traversals
and Threads, Expression.
Module-4
Tree, Binary search tree: Operations, Height Balanced Binary trees; M-Way Search Tree, B-
Trees; Applications. Heaps & Priority Queues.
Module-5
Graphs: Graph Terminologies, Representation of graphs, Graph Traversals, Application of
Graphs. Recursion – Design of Recursive Algorithms, Tail Recursion, When not to use
recursion, Removal of Recursion.
Module-6
Sorting Algorithms: Insertion sorts : Straight insertion sort, Binary insertion of sort, Shell sort;
Exchange sorts, Bubble sort, Quick sort, selection sorts: Straight Selection Sort, Heap Sort;
Merge sort; Distribution Sorts : Bucket Sort, Radix Sort
Module-7
Searching: Sequential Search, Ordered Sequential Search, Binary Search, Interpolation
Search.

--- Page 8 ---
Module-8
Hashing: Hashing Methods, Hash Function Implementations, Hash Tables, Scatter Tables,
Scatter tables using Open Addressing.
Module-9
Programming Experiments based on: Arrays, Stacks, Queues, Linked lists, Trees, Recursion,
Sorting, searching and Hashing data structures.
TEXT/REFERENCE BOOKS:
1. Lipschutz, S. (1987).Schaum's Outline of Data Structure. McGraw-Hill, Inc
2. Cormen, T. H., Leiserson, C. E., Rivest, R. L., & Stein, C. (2009).Introduction to
algorithms. MIT press.
COURSE OUTCOMES
CO1: Summarize different categories of data Structures
CO2: Identify different parameters to analyze the performance of an algorithm.
CO3: Explain the significance of dynamic memory management Techniques.
CO4: Design algorithms to perform operations with Linear and Nonlinear data structures.
CO5: illustrate various technique to for searching, Sorting and hashing.
CO6: Choose appropriate data structures to solve real world problems efficiently.

--- Page 9 ---
Semiconductor Devices
Semiconductor Physics and Devices L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 Foundation for qualitative and quantitative evaluation and understanding the different
parameters governing the electronic properties and flow of currents in semiconductor
materials.
 Introduction to the structure, principle of operation and justifying in terms of electronic
parameters the characteristic devices like p-n Junction, BJT, MOS, MOSFET.
 Introduction to some basic optoelectronic devices.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module – 1
Bonding Forces in Solids, Energy Bands theory in crystals (Qualitative Analysis),
Metals,Semiconductors, & Insulators, FermiLevel, Intrinsic, Extrinsic Semiconductors,
Concept ofHoles, Carrier Conc. and Mobility, Recombination& generation of charge carriers.
Module - 2
Carrier drift, diffusion, graded impurity distribution, carrier generation and recombination,
Built in fields, continuity equations, steady state carrier injection, Diffusion length.
Module - 3
Physical Description of p-n junction, Current flow at a junction, I –V characteristics,
Quantitative analysis of p-n diode characteristics, equivalent circuit, temperature dependence,
Capacitance of p-n junction diode (transition & storage), Junction Breakdown (Avalanche
&Zener), Step and linearly graded junction, diode switching characteristics, M – S junction
(Schottky barrier, Ohmic contact and rectifying contact), Hetero-junction.
Module – 4
Junction transistor, Charge transport in BJT, base narrowing (Early effect),
Avalanchebreakdown& Punch through, transistor switching, Coupled-Diode model, Ebers-
Moll equations,LF and HF model.
Module - 5
MOS structure, Basic operation of Enhancement & Depletion mode MOSFET, MOS
capacitance (Operation with band diagram, threshold voltage & Characteristics), CCD and
applications, LFand HF model.
Module-6
Optical absorption in semiconductors, photovoltaic effects, solar cells (p-n junction),
Photoconductors, Photodiode, PIN photodiode, Avalanche photodiode, Phototransistor, LED,
Semiconductor Laser (p-n junction)

--- Page 10 ---
TEXT /REFERENCEBOOK:
1. Solid State Electronic Devices by Streetman & Banerjee
2. Semiconductor Physics and Devices: Donald Neaman
3. Integrated Electronics: Millman & Halkias
4. Semiconductor Optoelectronic Devices: Pallab Bhattacharaya
5. Semiconductor Physics: Device & Technology: S. M. Sze
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Understanding of the basic crystal structure, semiconductor material classification and
introduction in general.
CO2: Understanding parameters governing the electronic properties of semiconductors,
equilibrium carrier concentration, bond and band models of Intrinsic and extrinsic
semiconductors.
CO3: Understanding carrier Transport phenomenon and non equilibrium excess carriers in
Semiconductor.
CO4: Understanding the Theory of Junction and Interfaces.
CO5: Understanding Bipolar Junction Transistor characteristics and its operation.
CO6: Understanding the characteristics and operation of MOS, MOSFET and introduction to
Optoelectronic Devices.

--- Page 11 ---
Network Analysis and Synthesis
Network Analysis and Synthesis L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To understand and analyse electrical networks in time and frequency domain.
 To understand various network laws, techniques and theorems in solving the problems
related to electrical networks.
 To learn the network graph theory.
 To know the basic concepts of coupled circuits and to understand the concept of resonance
in series and parallel circuits.
 To describe and analyse two port networks.
 To understand synthesis of electrical network from a given impedance/admittance
function.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1
Network Concepts: Review of network / circuit concepts, Network elements, Types of
Electrical Energy Sources: Independent and dependent voltage and current sources, voltage
and current relations for Resistors, Inductors and Capacitors, Kirchoff’s laws, Loop current
and node voltage methods for network analysis, Concepts of super node and super mesh,
Wye- Delta transformation.
Module-2
Initial conditions and Linear Differential Solution: Initial conditions in elements, behavior of
circuit elements under switching condition and their representation, 1st order and 2nd order
differential solution for Transient and steady state response of R-L, R-C, L-C and R-L-C
circuits.
Module-3
Laplace Transformation and application: Concept of complex frequency, Definition and basic
theorems of Laplace transform, Laplace transform of some basic functions, Gate function
,Wave form synthesis, inverse Laplace transform, Transient and steady state response of R-L,
R-C, and R-L-C circuits with Laplace transforms .
Module-4
Network theorems: Superposition, Thevenin’s, Norton’s, Maximum power transfer,
Reciprocity, Substitution and Compensation, Millman’stheorem, Tellegen’s Theorem as
applied to AC circuits.

--- Page 12 ---
Module-5
Coupled circuits: Self-inductance and Mutual inductance, Coefficient of coupling, dot
convention, and Equivalent inductance of mutually coupled circuits, Analysis of single tuned
and double tuned coupled circuits.
Module-6
Resonance: Behaviors of Series and parallel resonant circuits.
Module-7
Network Graph theory: Concept of a network graph, terminology, Incidence matrix and its
properties , Tie-Set Matrix, Cut-Set Matrix, Graph theory for electric networks analysis, Dual
of a network.
Module-8
Two port networks: Characterization in terms of Impedance, admittance, transmission and
inverse transmission, hybrid and inverse hybrid parameters ,Interrelationship between the
various parameters , Interconnection of two port networks- Series, parallel and cascade.
Module-9
Network functions and passive network synthesis: Driving points and transfer functions for
one port and two port network, poles and zeros of immittance function, Hurwitz polynomial,
positive real function and their properties, Synthesis of LC, RC and RL Networks, Foster
Forms and Cauer Forms.
TEXT/ REFERENCES:
1. Van, Valkenburg.; “Network analysis”; 3rd Ed., Prentice Hall International Edition, 2007.
2. Sudhakar, A., Shyammohan, S. P.; “Circuits and Network”; Tata Mcgraw-Hill New Delhi,
1994
3. Hayt W. H., Kemmerly J. E. and Durbin S. M., “Engineering Circuit Analysis”, 6th
Ed.,Tata McGraw-Hill Publishing Company Ltd.,2008.
4. Van Valkenberg M.E., Introduction to Modern Network Synthesis, John Wiley and Sons,
Inc, 1960.
5. F.F. Kuo, “Network analysis and Synthesis”, Wiley International Edition ,2008.
6. B.S.Nair and S.R.Deepa, “Network analysis and Synthesis”, Elsevier,2012.
7. DeCalro and Lin “Linear Circuit Analysis”, 2nd Ed. Oxford University Press, Indian
Edition(2004).

--- Page 13 ---
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Acquire knowledge to understand the fundamentals of electrical networks.
CO2: Ability to use various network laws, techniques and theorems in analyzing complex
networks.
CO3: Acquire knowledge to analyze electrical networks using graph theory.
CO4: Ability to analyze magnetically coupled circuits and series and parallel resonant circuits
CO5: Ability to express given electrical network in terms of various two port parameters and
to relate various two port parameters for finding network solution.
CO6: Ability to synthesis electrical networks using immittance functions.

--- Page 14 ---
Analog Electronic Circuits-I
Analog Electronic Circuits-I L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To make the students understand the fundamentals of electronic circuits.
COURSE CONTENT:-
Module-1:
Review of BJT operation and its characteristics, need of biasing and different types of biasing
circuits for BJT & FET, stability analysis, small signal Amplifier analysis of BJT & FET,
estimation of voltage gain, input resistance, output resistance etc.
Module-2:
Feedback concept, Feedback amplifier topologies, General characteristics of negative
feedback amplifier, input and output resistance with negative feedback, Method of analysis of
feedback amplifiers with practical examples.
Module-3:
RC and Direct coupling Amplifier, Low and High Frequency response of Amplifier circuit,
Gain and Frequency response of Multi stage Amplifier, Darlington pair.
Module-4:
Definition of class A, B and C power amplifiers, Distortion analysis, Series fed and
transformer coupled power amplifier, Push-pull amplifiers, Conversion efficiency.
Module-5:
Basic operation of differential Amplifier, Different configuration of differential Amplifier,
Calculation of gain, impedance etc. Biasing of differential Amplifier, calculation of
differential gain, common mode gain, CMRR.
Module-6:
Review of the basic concept for oscillation, Barkhausen criterion, Sinusoidal Oscillator, LC
Oscillators, RC phase shift oscillator, Crystal Oscillator.
TEXT/REFERENCES
1. Microelectronic Circuits Theory and Application-Sedra and Smith, 7th Ed, Oxford
publication.
2. Electronic Circuit Analysis and Design- Donald A. Neamen, McGraw-Hill
Education
3. Electronic Principles- Albert Malvinoand David Bates,7th Ed, McGraw Hills
4. Electronic Devices and Circuits- David A. Bell, 5th Ed, PHI
5. Electronic Device and Circuits - J. Millman, CCHalkias and S. Jit
6. Electronics: Circuits and Analysis - Dinesh C. Dube, 2ndEd, NAROSA publication

--- Page 15 ---
COURSE OUTCOMES:-
At the end of the course student will be able
CO1: illustrate about rectifiers, transistor and FET amplifiers and its biasing. Also
compare the performances of its low frequency models.
CO 2: discuss about the frequency response of FET and BJT amplifiers.
CO 3: illustrate about differential amplifiers and its characteristics.
CO4: discuss about the feedback concepts and construct feedback amplifiers and
oscillators. Also summarizes its performance parameters.
CO 5: explain about power amplifiers and its types and also analyze its characteristics.

--- Page 16 ---
Signals & Systems
Signals & Systems L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 To understand the basics of time and frequency domain signals.
 To understand the basics of time and frequency domain systems.
 To study the analysis of different signals and systems.
 To study Fourier series, Fourier Transform, Laplace Transform, Z- Transform.
 To study different sampling procedure of signals.
 To study different modulation techniques for communication systems.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1:
Introduction: signal and system in everyday life. Types of signals: Continuous‐time
and discrete time signals. Energy and Power signal, Transformations of the
independent variable, Exponential and sinusoidal signals, Module- impulse and
Module- step, Continuous‐time and Discrete time systems and Basic system
properties.
Module-2:
Linear time‐invariant systems: Discrete and Continuous time systems, convolution
sum, convolution Integral, Properties, causality and stability of linear time invariant
systems. System representation by differential equations and difference equations,
singularity function.
Module-3:
Fourier series and Fourier transform: analysis of continuous-time and discrete time
signals by Fourier series, properties. Representation of aperiodic signals by Fourier
Transform: Continuous‐time and discrete‐time signals, Properties, System
characterized by linear constant coefficient differential equation. Discrete time Fourier
transform and discrete Fourier transform, Parseval’s theorem.
Module-4:
Laplace Transform for continuous-time signal and systems: Eigen functions of LTI
systems, region of convergence, system functions, pole and zero of system functions
and signals. Laplace domain analysis, differential equation solution, Parseval’s
theorem representation.
Module-5:
Z-transform of discrete time signals and systems: Eigen functions, region of
convergence, system function, poles and zeros representation of systems, z-domain
analysis, Parseval’s theorem representation.

--- Page 17 ---
Module-6:
Sampling: Sampling theorem, Impulse train sampling, Sampling with zero order hold,
Reconstruction of signal from its samples using interpolation, Aliasing. Discrete time
processing of continuous time signals, Digital differentiator, half sample delay, Sampling of
Discrete-time signals, Decimation and interpolation.
Module-7:
Advanced topics: modulation for communication, filter, and time-frequency
representation of uncertainty principle, short-term Fourier transform and wavelet
transform.
COURSE OUTCOME:
After successful completion of the course the students will be able to:
CO1: Realize the significance of studying signals and systems and their properties.
CO2: Understand the concept to analyze different signals.
CO3: Understand the concept to analyze different systems.
CO4: Understand the way to sample different signals.
CO5: Understand different modulation scheme for modern communication.

--- Page 18 ---
th
4 SEMESTER
Engineering Economics and Accounts
Engineering Economics and Accounts L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 To make the Engineering student know about the basic concepts and law of Economics
and their application to understand the behaviour of agents present in the market. The
subject will address the requirement of evaluating the commercial viability of projects
undertaken by graduate engineers
 To make the Engineering student know about the basic concepts of cost and costing,
Accounts and financial statements and their application to understand the issue of
commercial viability of any projects.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1:
Engineering Economics- meaning, nature, scope and subject matter
Module-2:
Utility- definition, total, marginal and average; cardinal utility theory; indifference
curves theory; Demand- factors effecting demand, elasticity of demand- different
types of elasticity, classification of goods based on various elasticity of demand
Module – 3:
Production- Production function; Iso-quant; returns to scale; Total, Average & Marginal
Product; law of variable proportions; Cobb-Douglas production function; Iso-cost curve;
Derivation of cost curve from production function; Production optimization; expansion path
Module – 4:
Cost- short run and long run cost (the ‘Envelope Curve’); shape of different types of cost
curves; Revenue- total revenue and marginal revenue, relation between marginal revenue and
price elasticity of demand.
Module – 5:
Firm- different types of firm and its characteristics; traditional theory of firm; objectives of
firm
Module – 6:
Introduction to Accounting- Definition of Accounting and accountancy, objectives of
accounting, users of accounting information, Double Entry system of Book-Keeping, Journal
and Ledger, Cash book, Trial balance.
Module – 7:
Final Accounts- Basic concepts, uses and preparation of Trading account; Profit and Loss
account; and Balance Sheet. Issue and for feature of Share and Re-Issue of Company.

--- Page 19 ---
Module – 8:
Introduction to Costing - Elements of Cost, Direct Materials, Direct Labour, Direct Expenses,
Overheads, Production, Office and Administration, Selling and Distribution, Allocation of
overhead, machine hour rate, labour hour rate, practical problems.
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Be able to identify and explain economic concepts and theories related to the behavior
of economic agents present in market.
CO2: Be able to analyse the impact of various government policies in production and
profitability of the company.
CO3: Be able to identify the basic features of alternative representations of human behavior in
economics.
CO4: Be able to understand the impact various decisions or transactions will have on the
company’s statements and financial health.
CO5: Be able to comfortably communicate with senior financial and non-financial leaders
about financial statement issues and the financial impact of business decisions.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Chan S.Park, “Contemporary Engineering Economics”, Prentice Hall of India, 2002.
2. Donald.G. Newman, Jerome.P.Lavelle, “Engineering Economics and analysis” Engg.
Press, Texas, 2002
3. Degarmo, E.P., Sullivan, W.G and Canada, J.R, “Engineering Economy”, Macmillan,
New York, 1984
4. Grant.E.L.,Ireson.W.G., and Leavenworth, R.S, “Principles of Engineering Economy”,
Ronald Press, New York,1976.
5. Smith, G.W., “Engineering Economy”, Lowa State Press, Iowa, 1973.

--- Page 20 ---
Electromagnetic Theory & Antenna
Electromagnetic Theory & Antenna L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 To understand the basics of electrodynamics.
 To understand the application of electrodynamics in waves.
 To study the fundamentals of antennas.
 To study wire and loop antennas.
 To study antenna array.
 To study microstrip and broadband antennas.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1:
Electrodynamics: Electromagnetic induction, inductance, continuity equation,
displacement current, Maxwell’s equations, boundary conditions, Poynting’s theorem,
energy and momentum in 0electromagnetic field.
Module-2:
Electromagnetic Waves: EM waves in vacuum and in matter, plane waves, wave
polarization, group velocity, normal and oblique incidence of uniform plane
electromagnetic waves at conducting boundary, dielectric boundary.
Module-3:
Fundamental Concepts Antenna: Physical concept of radiation, Radiation pattern,
near-and far-field regions, reciprocity, directivity and gain, effective aperture,
polarization, input impedance, efficiency, Friis transmission equation, radiation
integrals and auxiliary potential functions
Module-4:
Radiation from Wires and Loops: Infinitesimal dipole, finite-length dipole,
monopole antennas, small circular loop, radiation from apertures.
Module-5:
Antenna Arrays: Analysis of array of uniformly spaced elements, uniform and non-
uniform excitation, extension to planar arrays, synthesis of antenna arrays
Module-6:
Micro strip Antennas: Basic characteristics of micro strip antennas, feeding methods,
methods of analysis, design of rectangular and circular patch antennas.
Module-7:
Broadband Antennas: Log-periodic and Yagi-Uda antennas, frequency independent
antennas, broadcast antennas.

--- Page 21 ---
COURSE OUTCOME:
After successful completion of the course the students will be able to:
CO1: Realize the significance of studying electrodynamics.
CO2: Understand the generation of electromagnetic waves.
CO3: Understand the fundamental concept of antennas.
CO4: Understand the analysis of different wire antenna, loop antenna, antenna array, microstrip
and broadband antenna.

--- Page 22 ---
Probability & Random Process
Probability & Random Process L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
To expose the students to the basics of probability theory and random processes which is an
prerequisite for their consequent study of basic and advanced communication courses.
Module-1
Axioms of probability theory. Probability spaces. Joint and conditional probabilities. Bayes’
Theorem-Independent events.
Module-2
Random variables and random vectors. Distributions and densities. Independent random
variables. Functions of one and two random variables.
Module-3
Moments and characteristic functions. Inequalities of Chebyshev and Schwartz. Law of large
numbers, Central limit theorem, Convergence concepts.
Module-4
Random processes. Stationarity and ergodicity. Strict sense and wide sense stationary
processes. Covariance functions and their properties. Spectral representation. Wiener-
Khinchine theorem.
Module-5
Gaussian processes. Processes with independent increments. Poisson processes. Low
pass and Band pass noise representations
TEXT/REFERENCE:
1. Davenport,” Probability and Random Processes for Scientist and Engineers”, McGraw-
Hill.
2. Papoulis. A.,” Probability, Random variables and Stochastic Processes”, McGraw Hill.
3. E.Wong, “Introduction to Random Processes”, Springer Verlag.
4. W.A.Gardner, “Introduction to Random Processes”, (2/e), McGraw Hill.
5. H.Stark&J.W.Woods, “Probability, Random Processes and Estimations Theory for
Engineers”, (2/e), Prentice Hall.
COURSE OUTCOME:
After successful completion of the course the students will be able to:
CO1: Understand the Axiomatic Theory of Probability and realize the importance of random
variables as an intrinsic need for the analysis of random phenomena.
CO2: Characterize probability models and function of random variables based on single &
multiple random variables.
CO3: Evaluate and apply moments & characteristic functions and understand the concept of
inequalities and limits in Probability.

--- Page 23 ---
CO4: Understand the concept of random processes and determine different statistical
parameters related to stationary random processes
CO5: Be familiar with the usage of random process in telecommunication engineering and to
solve the corresponding problems.

--- Page 24 ---
Digital Electronics
Digital Electronics L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
This course intends to impart the following knowledge to the students:
 To present the Digital fundamentals, Boolean algebra and its applications in digital
systems.
 To familiarize with the design of various combinational digital circuits using logic gates.
 To introduce the analysis and design procedures for synchronous and asynchronous
sequential circuits.
 To explain the various semiconductor memories and related technology.
 To introduce the electronic circuits involved in the making of logic gates.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1:
Binary arithmetic, Codes—BCD, Gray, Excess-3, Error detection & Correcting Code-
Hamming code, Logic Gates, Boolean Algebra, Basic theorems & properties of
Boolean Algebra, K-map representation, Q-M Method, simplification and realization
with logic gates.
Module- 2:
Code Converters, Adders (Half and Full adders, parallel binary adders, look ahead
carry adder generator, BCD Adder), Subtractor (Half and Full subtractor), Combined
adder/subtractor block, Magnitude comparator, decoders and Encoders, Priority
Encoder, Multiplexer and Multiplexer-tree, De-multiplexer, Parity generator/checkers.
Module- 3:
Latches, Flip-Flops (SR, D, JK, T and Master Slave JK), Conversion of Flip-Flops,
Glitches, Shift Register (SISO, SIPO, PIPO, PISO, Bidirectional), Counter (ripple and
synchronous, Ring and Johnson Counters), Model of Finite State Machine---State
diagram, Mealy and Moore models.
Module- 4:
Memory concepts, RAM, ROM, UV-EPROM, EEROM, Flash memory, Optical
memory.
Module- 5:
PAL, PLA, PROM, CPLD, FPGA and Programmable ASIC.

--- Page 25 ---
Module-6:
Transistor as switch, Characteristics (Propagation delay, Speed-power product, Noise
margin, Fan-in, Fan-out), Standard logic families (RTL, TTL, ECL, CMOS), Gate
Design using TTL/ CMOS.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. A. Anand Kumar, Fundamentals of Digital Logic, PHI.
2. M. Morris Mano, Digital Logic and Computer Design, PHI.
3. R.P. Jain, Modern Digital Electronics, McGraw Hill Education.
4. T. L. Floyd & Jain, Digital Fundamentals, Pearson Education.
5. Malvino & Leach, Digital Principles and Applications, McGraw Hill Education.
COURSE OUTCOME:
Upon completion of the course students are expected to demonstrate knowledge, skill and
abilities in the following areas:
CO1: Have a thorough understanding of the fundamental concepts and techniques used in
digital electronics.
CO2: To understand and examine the structure of various number systems and its application
in digital design.
CO3: The ability to understand, analyze and design various combinational and sequential
circuits.
CO4: Ability to identify basic requirements for a design application and propose a cost
effective solution.
CO5: The ability to identify and prevent various hazards and timing problems in a digital
design.
CO6: To develop skill to build, and troubleshoot digital circuits.

--- Page 26 ---
CONTROL SYSTEM
Control System L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
 To understand the concept of control system and modeling of physical systems
using differential equation, transfer function, block diagram, signal flow graph and
state variables.
 To examine the feedback control systems using transient and steady-state
responses.
 To analyze the stability of a system in time domain and frequency domain
 To analyze the behavior of closed loop systems using root locus technique.
 To design various controllers and compensator to meet desired system
performance specification
 To derive state variable model for dynamical system and to analyze controllability
and observe ability.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction: Elements of control systems, concept of open loop and closed loop systems,
effects of feedback on parameter variation.
Module-2
Mathematical Models of Systems: Differential Equations of Physical Systems, Transfer
function concepts, Block Diagram Models, Determination of transfer function by block
diagram reduction techniques, Signal-Flow Graph Models, Mason’s Gain formula.
Module-3
Mathematical Modeling of Physical Systems: Modeling of Electric systems, Liquid level
system, Translational and rotational mechanical systems.
Module-4
Control System Components: DC servomotors, Stepper motors and synchros.
Module-5
Time Response analysis: Standard test signals, time response of first and second order
systems, time response specifications, steady state errors, error coefficients, P, PI and P‐I‐D
type controllers.
Module-6
Stability and Algebraic Criteria: Concept of stability, Assessment of stability from pole
positions, Routh-Hurwitz Stability criteria and limitations.

--- Page 27 ---
Module-7
Root Locus Technique: The root locus concept, Root locus construction rules.
Module-8
Frequency Response Analysis and frequency domain methods: Frequency response,
correlation between time and frequency responses, Closed loop frequency response ,polar and
inverse polar plots, Nyquist plot, Bode plots, constant M & N circles , All pass systems,
Minimum-phase and Non‐minimum‐phase systems, Illustrative examples.
Module-9
Stability in the Frequency Domain: Introduction, Mapping Contours in the s-Plane, Principle
of Argument, Nyquist stability criterion, Bode plots, assessment of relative stability: gain
margin and phase margin.
Module-10
Compensator Design: Lag, lead and lag-lead compensation.
Module-11
State space representation: Concepts of state, state variables and state model, Transfer
Function from the State Equation, The Time Response and the State Transition Matrix,
Concept on Controllability and Observe ability and their testing.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. Kuo B.C. Automatic Control System, PHI
2. Nagrath I J & Gopal M : Control Systems Engineering, New Age International Pub.
3. Ogata K : Modern Control Engg. PHI
4. Dorf R C & Bishop R.H.: Modern Control System ; Addison – Wisley
5. Gopal: Modern Control System Theory, New Age International
6. Gibsen JF, “Control System Components,” Mcgraw Hill.
7. D.Roy Choudhary, “Modern Control Engineering”, Prentice Hall of India.
8. Norman S. Mise, Control System Engineering, Wiley Publishing Co.
9. Ajit K Mandal, “Introduction to Control Engineering” New Age International.
10. R.T. Stefani, B.Shahian, C.J.Savant and G.H. Hostetter, “Design of Feedback Control
Systems” Oxford University Press.
11. .Samarjit Ghosh, “ Control Systems theory and Applications”, Pearson Education
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Acquire knowledge to develop mathematical model of the physical system and represent
them in various forms.
CO2: Ability to analyze time response of different order system for standard test inputs and to
analyze the stability in time domain.
CO3: Ability to apply Root-locus technique to analyze the stability of control system.
CO4: Ability to design various controllers and compensators.
CO5: Acquire knowledge to analyze the stability of a system by frequency domain techniques.
CO6: Ability to develop and analyze state space model.

--- Page 28 ---
Analog Electronic Circuits-II
Analog Electronic Circuits-II L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To introduce the theoretical & circuit aspects of an Op-amp.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1:
Review of differential Amplifier. Basic information of OP-AMP, Characteristic of OP-AMP,
Application of OP-AMP-inverting , non-inverting and differential amplifiers, voltage
follower, Current to voltage converter, mathematical application of OP-AMP-, sign changer,
summing, scaling and averaging Amplifier, Instrumentation amplier, Logarithmic amplifier,
integrator and differentiator, Active filters: Low pass, high pass, band pass and band stop,
design guidelines.
Module-2:
Non-linear application of OP-AMP in designing comparators, application of comparator such
as zero crossing detector, window detector, etc. Regenerative comparator (Schmitt Trigger),
Square wave generator (Astable Multivibrator), Monostable Multivibrator, Triangular wave
generator.Design of Oscillator using OP-AMP, RC phase shift oscillator, Wien Bridge
Oscillator, LC Oscillator, Colpitt’s and Hartley Oscillator.
Module- 3:
Design of Voltage regulator using OP-AMP, Series and Switching regulator. Basic of
Operational Trans conductance Amplifier (OTA), Function of 555 timer, 555 timer for
Monostable and Astable operation. Block diagram representation of Phase-locked loop (PLL)
and use of PLL.
Module- 4:
Digital-to-analog converters (DAC): Weighted resistor, R-2R ladder, resistor string etc.
Analog-to-digital converters (ADC): Single slope, dual slope, successive approximation, flash
etc. Switched capacitor circuits: Basic concept, practical configurations, application in
amplifier, integrator, ADC etc.
TEXT/REFERENCES
1. Tobey, Graeme , Huelsman , “Operational amplifiers, Design and applications”, McGraw
Hills, Edition
2. Gaikwad R.A “Operational Amplifiers and Linear Integrated Circuits”, PHI 1990 Edition
3. D. Ray Choudhury&Shail Jain “Linear Integrated Circuits” New Age, 5th Edition.
4. Design with OPAMPS and Analog ICs-Fransis S, McGraw Hills
5. OPAMPS and Linear ICs -Fiore J.M,Delmer-Thomson, USA 2001.
6. Microelectronic Circuits Theory and Application-Sedra and Smith, 7th Ed, Oxford
publication.
7. Design of Analog CMOS Integrated Circuits-Behzad Razavi, McGraw Hills

--- Page 29 ---
COURSE OUTCOMES:
At the end of the course student will be able to
CO1: infer the DC and AC characteristics of operational amplifiers and its effect on output
and their compensation techniques.
CO2: elucidate and design the linear and nonlinear applications of an op-amp and special
application ICs.
CO3: explain and compare the working of multi vibrators using special application IC 555 and
general purpose op-amp.
CO4: classify and comprehend the working principle of data converters.
CO5: illustrate the function of application specific ICs such as Voltage regulators, PLL and its
application in communication.

--- Page 30 ---
th
5 SEMESTER
Industrial Management
Industrial Management L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 To make the Engineering student know about the basic concepts, functions, principles and
techniques of management and their application, which complement the technical skills to
execute their capabilities successfully.
 To make the Engineering student know about the basic concepts of finance in carrying out
any project
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1:
Basic Concepts and functions of management: planning, nature, purpose and objective of
planning; organizing: nature and purpose, authority and responsibility, staff bug; supply of
human resources, performance appraisal. Controlling: system and process of controlling,
control techniques.
Module- 2:
Human resource Management and Marketing Management: nature and scope of human
resource of planning, planning and development, recruitment and selection, career growth,
grievances, motivation and its type, needs for motivation, reward and punishment, models of
motivation. Leaders: kinds of leaders, leadership styles, roles and functions of leader; conflict
management: kinds and causes of conflict, settlement of conflict, Group and team working,
organizational design and development.
Module – 3:
Financial Management: Need of finance, kinds and sources of capital shares and
debentures, fixed and working capital , capital structure of a firm, operating and financial
leverage, EBIT and EPS analysis, financial ratio analysis : uses and natures, liquidity
coverage ratios, practical problems.
Module – 4:
Investment decisions and forecasting of working capital: Kinds of capital Budgeting decisions,
evaluation of proposals, capital discounting and non discounting based methods. Practical
problems. Definition and importance of working capital. Working capital operating cycle,
factors affecting Working capital, inventory management
Module – 5:
Cost Analysis and Cost Control: elements of cost, types of cost, direct and indirect, variable
and fixed, labour cost, material cost, overhead cost, cost control techniques. Budget: meaning,
kinds, budgetary controls, break even analysis, practical problems.
Module – 6:
Perfect Competition- Perfect Competition, Features; Short run and long run equilibrium of
firm and industry, shut down point.

--- Page 31 ---
Module – 7:
Monopoly- features, monopoly power, pricing under monopoly, price discrimination.
Module – 8:
Oligopoly- Features, kincked demand Curve, Cournot’s Duoploy Model Cartels, Price
leadership.
Module – 9:
Monopolistic Competition- Features, Pricing under monopolistic competition, Product
differentiation.
Module – 10
Macroeconomics- Inflation; Function of Central & Commercial Banks.
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Be able to understand the principles of management and apply these to one’s own work,
as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
CO2: Be able to make a plan how to organize, control and motivate people.
CO3: Be able to understand the Cost analysis in the context of short and long term decision
making and the use of discounted cash flow analysis.
CO4: Be able to identify and explain economic concepts and theories related to the markets,
industry and firm structures.
CO5: Be able to pursue the larger objectives of the firm besides profit maximization.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. M. Adhikari, Business Economics, Excel Books, 2004
2. S. K. Misra & V.K.Puri, Economic Environment of Business, HPH, 2003
3. L.M.Prasad, Priciples and Practice of Management, S.Chand & Sons.
4. P.Chandra, Financial Management Theory and Practice (3/e), TMH, 2004

--- Page 32 ---
Analog and Digital Communication
Analog And Digital Communication L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To understand the fundamentals of analog and digital communication.
 To study the different Linear Modulation or Amplitude Modulation (AM) schemes.
 To study the different Angular Modulation schemes, i.e. Frequency Modulation (FM) and
Phase Modulation (PM).
 To study about the sampling theorem, different analog and digital pulse modulations.
 To study different Digital Modulation schemes.
 To make students aware of noise and interference (Inter Symbol Interference (ISI)) in
digital modulated signal and method of minimizing it.
 To study the different types of digital Amplitude, Frequency and Phase Keying
techniques.
COURSE CONTENTS:
Module- 1:
Introduction to analog modulation, Theory of Amplitude Modulation (AM)- With Large
Carrier, DSB-SC, SSB-SC, VSB, Basic of Anguler Modulation; Frequency Modulation (FM)
and Phase modulation (PM).Frequency Division Multiplexing (FDM), Super-heterodyne
Radio Receiver.
Module- 2:
Pulse Modulation –PAM, PWM & PPM. Pulse Code Modulation , Linear quantizer,
Quantization noise power calculation, Signal to Quantization noise ratio, Non-uniform
quantizer, A law & u- law, companding; encoding and Bandwidth of PCM, Differential pulse
code modulation, Delta modulation, Idling noise and slope overload, Adaptive delta
modulation, DPCM, Comparison of PCM and DM. Time Division Multiplexing(TDM)
Module- 3:
Line Coding & its properties. NRZ & RZ types, signaling format for unipolar, Polar, bipolar
(AMI) & Manchester coding and their power spectra, HDB and B8ZS signaling, ISI, Nyquist
criterion for zero ISI & raised cosine spectrum, Matched filter receiver, Derivation of its
impulse response and peak pulse signal to noise ratio, Correlation detector decision threshold
and error probability for binary unipolar (on-off) signaling.
Module- 4:
Types of digital modulation, Wave forms for Amplitude, Frequency and Phase Shift Keying,
Method of generation and detection of coherent & non-coherent binary ASK, FSK & PSK,
Differential phase shift keying, Quadrature modulation techniques, M-ary FSK, Minimum
Shift Keying (MSK), Probability of error and comparison of various digital modulation
techniques. Coherent reception, Coherent reception of ASK, PSK and FSK, Non-Coherent
reception of ASK, FSK, PSK and QPSK, Calculation of error probability of BPSK and BFSK,
Error probability for QPSK.

--- Page 33 ---
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. Haykin Simon, “Communication Systems”, 4th Edition, Wiley publication.
2. Lathi B P, “Digital and Analog Communication Systems”, Oxford University Press.
3. U. Madhow, “Fundamentals of Digital Communication”, Cambridge University Press.
4. H.Taub, D. L. Schilling, G.Saha “Principles of Communication Systems” 3rd Edition, Mc
Graw –Hill.
5. Proakis J G, M. Salehi, “Communication Systems Engineering”, Prentice Hall.
6. R.E. Zeimer, “ Principles of Communication” , John Wiley
COURSE OUTCOMES:
After successful completion of this course, students
CO1: Will gathered knowledge about the fundamentals of analog and digital communication,
advantages and disadvantages and their applications.
CO2: Will learn design linear and angular modulators and demodulators for communication.
CO3: Will earn sufficient knowledge regarding signal sampling to understand multiplexing
and digital modulation schemes for modern communication.
CO4: Will enhance knowledge regarding signal dispersion and fading, and their impact (ISI)
due to channel characteristics and accordingly will learn how to take correct decision in
presence of ISI, and learn to design optimum receivers to obtain correct decision in presence
of channel (AWGN) noise
CO5: Will familiar with different digital carrier modulation/ switching techniques highly
required for modern high speed advanced digital communication.

--- Page 34 ---
Electronic Instrumentation and
Measurement
Electronic Instrumentation And
L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
Measurement
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
 To introduce students to Monitor, Analyze and Control any Physical System and Basic
Measurement Techniques.
 To understand different errors in measurement.
 To understand the construction & operation of different analog and digital instruments
adopted for measurement of Resistance, Inductance, Capacitance, Frequency, Power,
Energy etc.
 To understand different Sensors, Transduces and Digital Measurement Techniques.
 To know the industrial practices of locating the cable faults.
 To understand the Construction & Operation of Frequency Domain & Special Purpose
Instruments.
 To introduce students a knowledge to use modern tools necessary for Electrical &
Electronic projects.
COURSE CONTENTS:
Module-1:
Basic Measurement Techniques: Construction and Principle of Operation of Moving Coil,
Moving Iron, Dynamometer, Thermal and Rectifier type Deflecting Instruments, DC ammeter,
Ammeter shunts, DC Voltmeter, Voltmeter multiplier.
Moduel-2:
Errors in Measurement: Definition of Accuracy, Precision, Fidelity, Speed of
Response, Non‐linearity, techniques of Linearization, Classification of errors,
Statistical analysis.
Module-3:
Measurements of Resistances: Measurement of low, medium and high Resistances (Wheat
Stone Bridge, Kelvin Bridge), Kelvins Double Bridge.
Module-3:
Localization of Cable faults: Murray and Varley Loop Methods.
Module-4:
AC Bridges: Measurement of Inductances, Capacitance and Frequency by A.C.
Bridges – Maxwell Bridge, Hay’s Bridge, Anderson Bridge, Owen’s Bridge, De
Sauty’s Bridge, Schering, Wein Bridge.

--- Page 35 ---
Module-5:
Measurement of Power & Energy: Measurements of Power in Polyphase Circuits,
various Wattmeter connections, A.C. and D.C. Energy Meters.
Module-6:
Cathode Ray Oscilloscope: C.R.O Construction &Principle of Operation. Cathode Ray Tube
(CRT), Digital Storage Oscilloscopes.
Module-7:
Sensors & Transducers: Piezoelectric Sensors, LVDT, Stain Gauges, Thermistors,
Thermocouple, Actuators A/D, D/A Conversion Techniques; S/H and Mu ltiplexers; Isolation
Amplifiers; Data Acquisition System, Sampling Concepts, ADC and DAC.
Module-8:
Digital Instrumenta tion: Block diagram of Instrumentation Schemes, DVM, DMM, and
Frequency Counter.
Module-9:
Frequency Domain Instruments: Wave Analyzer, Spectrum Analyzer.
Module-10:
Special Purpose Instruments: Signal Generators, Q-meter.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. Golding E.W. & Wides F.C. : Electrical Measuring Instruments & Measurements ;
Wheeler.
2. Sawhney A K: A course in Electrical & Electronic Measurements & Instruments, Dhanpat
Rai & Co.
3. S K Singh : Industrial Instrumentation & Control , Tata McGraw Hill.New Delhi.
4. H. S. Kalsi : Electronic Instrumentation and Measurements , Tata Mc‐Graw Hill.
5. Heltrick A.D. & Cooper W.D.: Modern Electronic Instrumentation & Measuring
Instruments; Wheeler.
6. Patranabis D: Sensors & Transducers, Wheeler 96.
7. Bell, David : Electronic Instrumentation & Measurement, Reston Publishers.
8. R K Rajput: Electronic Measurements and Instrumentation; S Chand.
COURSE OUTCOMES:
After successful completion of the course the students will be able to:
CO1: Appreciate a system to determine appropriate instruments by type and range to
measure different quantities in the system.
CO2: Measure various electrical quantities like R.L.C, Voltage, Current, Frequency,
Power and Energy for AC and DC quantities using analog and digital meters.
CO3: Balance various AC and DC bridges to find unknown values.
CO4: Use Sensors & Transducers for measurement of various parameters.
CO5: Use CRO with confidence to measure different quantities and viewing signal
waves.
CO6: Use techniques and skills to locate the fault of underground cables.
CO7: Take up projects to apply the learned techniques and skills.

--- Page 36 ---
Digital Signal Processing
Digital Signal Processing L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 The primary objective of this course is to provide a comprehensive understanding and
working knowledge of analysis, design & implementation of DSP systems.
COURSE CONTENTS:
Module- 1:
Fourier analysis of discrete-time signals and systems: Discrete Fourier Series, Discrete Time
Fourier Transform (DTFT), Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) - Properties; Approximation of
Fourier transform through DFT, Fast algorithms for DFT: The FFT algorithm – Prime factor
algorithms, Convolution; Linear and circular convolution, Practical implementation, Overlap-
save and overlap-add methods.
Module- 2:
Design of Digital Filters: Linear Phase FIR filters; Design methods for FIR filters, FIR filter
design using windows; IIR filter design by Impulse Invariance, Bilinear Transformation,
Matched Z‐Transformation, Frequency Transformation in the Analog and Digital Domain,
Filter structures for IIR and FIR filters, direct form I and II, parallel and cascade forms,
frequency sampling structure for FIR filters
Module-3:
Finite length register effects: Limit cycles, Overflow oscillations, State variable model for
overflow, Round-off noise in IIR digital filters, Computation of output round-off noise,
Methods to prevent overflow, Scaling rules and scaling operations, Scaling state variable
description, Trade-off between round-off and overflow noise, Measurement of coefficient
quantization effects through pole-zero movement, Dead-band effects, Constant input limit
cycles.
Module- 4:
Introduction to multirate DSP: Decimation and interpolation, polyphase decomposition,
uniform DFT filter banks, quadrature mirror filters and perfect reconstruction
Digital Signal Processors: Architecture and types of instructions, Addressing schemes and
Interface details of one of the latest, commonly used Digital Signal Processors.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. J.G.Proakis, D.G. Manolakis, “Digital Signal Processing”, (4/e) Pearson, 2007.
2. A.V.Oppenheim & R.W.Schafer, “Discrete Time Signal processing", (2/e), Pearson
Education, 2003.
3. S.K.Mitra, “Digital Signal Processing (3/e)”, Tata McGraw Hill, 2006.
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: To understand the key theoretical principles underpinning DSP in a design procedure
CO2: Implementation and applications of digital signal processing concepts and algorithms

--- Page 37 ---
CO3: Ability to design & analyze DSP systems like FIR and IIR Filters etc.
CO4: To give an exposure to the various fixed point & a floating point DSP architectures and
to develop applications using these processors
CO5: Analysis and Design of Practical Systems for Communication Engineering and Signal
Processing.

--- Page 38 ---
Microprocessors and Microcontrollers
Microprocessors And Microcontrollers L-4 T-0 P-0 4 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 To have an understanding of Microprocessor Architecture Basics (8085 and 8086)
 To get familiar with Assembly Language Programming, Memory Systems and I/Os.
 To have knowledge of Advanced Microprocessors.
 To understand Architecture of Microcontrollers.
 To understand the basics of interfacing.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1
Microprocessor architecture: 8‐bit (e.g.8085) and 16‐bit (e.g. 8086/8088).
Module- 2
Addressing modes of microprocessors, instruction set of 8‐bit (8085) and 16‐bit
microprocessors (8086/8088).
Module- 3
Instruction cycle, timing diagram, Subroutine, assembly language programming.
Module- 4
Types of memories and their organizations (RAM, ROM, stack, secondary etc.).
Module- 5
Interrupt, DMA, Principle of data transfer (synchronous and asynchronous). Serial data
communication, RS‐232 standard. Peripheral interface: PPI, DMA controller, interrupt
controller, programmable timer, USART.
Module-6
Introduction to advanced microprocessors (16 bit, 32 bit & 64 bit), Architecture of advanced
microprocessors‐80186, 80286, 80386, 80486,Pentium processor.
Module- 7
Microcontrollers and its applications (e.g.8051).
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. Ramesh Gaonkar, Microprocessor Architecture, Programming and Applications with the
8085, Penram.
2. B. Ram, Fundamentals Microprocessor and Microcontrollers, Dhanpat Rai Publications.
3. Barry B. Brey, The INTEL Microprocessors, Pearson.
4. Mazidi, The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems.

--- Page 39 ---
COURSE OUTCOMES:
After the completion of the course, the students:
CO1: Will have an idea about some basic and advanced microprocessors.
CO2: Will learn assembly language programming.
CO3: Will learn about various I/O chips and interfacing.
CO4: Will have knowledge of different interrupts.
CO5: Will have a basic idea about microcontrollers.

--- Page 40 ---
th
6 SEMESTER
Optical Fibre Communication
Optical Fibre Communication L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 To introduce basic overview of optical communication in telecommunication system,
fundamental data communication concept used in optical communications.
 To understand the purpose and performance characteristics of major elements in optical
link: Optical fibers, types, physical structures, constituent materials, fabrication methods,
and attenuation behaviour, loss and dispersion mechanisms.
 To understand the working principles of Optical sources: Operating characteristics, direct
and external modulation techniques, temperature effects, device lifetime considerations,
noise, etc.
 To know about Power Launching and Coupling: Source to fibre power launching, fibre to
fibre joints, couplers, multiplexers and splices
 To understand the purpose and working of Detectors: Structures and response of photo-
detectors, operational characteristics, concept of signal detection and eye diagram
measurement schemes
 To acquire knowledge of design methods for digital and analog links, discussion of link
power budget and bandwidth limitation; wavelength converters, coherent and WDM
schemes, Grating structures, etc.
 To understand te working of Optical amplifiers (EDFA, etc); Raman Scattering, Brillouin
Scattering, stimulated Raman Scattering, Solution, etc.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Overview of Optical Fiber Communication: Introduction, Historical development, general
system, advantages, disadvantages, and applications of optical fiber communication, optical
fiber waveguides, Ray theory, cylindrical fiber, single mode fiber, cutoff wave length, mode
filed diameter. Optical Fibers: fiber materials, photonic crystal, fiber optic cables specialty
fibers.
Module-2
Transmission Characteristics of Optical Fibers: Introduction, Attenuation, absorption,
scattering losses, bending loss, dispersion, Intra model dispersion, Inter model dispersion.
Module-3
Optical Sources and Detectors: Introduction, LED’s, LASER diodes, Photo detectors, Photo
detector noise, Response time, double hetero junction structure, Photo diodes, comparison of
photo detectors.
Module-4
Fiber Couplers and Connectors: Introduction, fiber alignment and joint loss, single mode fiber
joints, fiber splices, fiber connectors and fiber couplers.

--- Page 41 ---
Module-5
Optical Receiver: Introduction, Optical Receiver Operation, receiver sensitivity, quantum
limit, eye diagrams, coherent detection, burst mode receiver, operation, and Analog receivers.
Module-6
Analog And Digital Links: Analog links – Introduction, overview of analog links, CNR,
multichannel transmission techniques, RF over fiber, key link parameters, Radio over fiber
links, microwave photonics. Digital links – Introduction, point–to–point links, System
considerations, link power budget, resistive budget, short wave length band, and transmission
distance for single mode fibers, Power penalties, nodal noise and chirping.
Module-7
WDM Concepts and Components: WDM concepts, overview of WDM operation principles,
WDM standards, Mach-Zehender interferometer, multiplexer, Isolators and circulators, direct
thin film filters, active optical components, MEMS technology, variable optical attenuators,
tunable optical fibers, dynamic gain equalizers, optical drop multiplexers, polarization
controllers, chromatic dispersion compensators, tunable light sources.
Module-8
Optical Amplifiers and Networks: Optical Amplifiers and Networks – optical
amplifiers, basic applications and types, semiconductor optical amplifiers, EDFA.
OPTICAL NETWORKS: Introduction, SONET / SDH, Optical Interfaces,
SONET/SDH rings, High – speed light – waveguides.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. G. Keiser, Optical Fibre Communications, McGraw Hill, 2008.
2. John M. Senior, Optical Fiber Communications: Principles and Practice, PHI, 2008
3. Jones, William B. Jones, Introduction to Optical Fiber Communications Systems, Oxford
University Press (1995).
4. A. J. Rogers, Understanding Optical Fiber Communications, Artech House (2001).
5. J. C. Palais, Fiber optic communication, 5th edition, Prentice Hall, 2004
COURSE OUTCOMES:
After successful completion of the course the students will be able to:
CO1: Express the basic concepts of Fiber optic communication link
CO2: Analyse the operating characteristics of light sources, analysing the performance and
modulation characteristics
CO3: Develop the concept of coupling light source to fiber and how to join two or more fibers
in order to ensure a low optical power loss at the joints; fiber couplers, multipliers and
splicing.
CO4: Design structure, configuration and responses of light-wave receivers (photo-detectors) -
principles, functions and operational characteristics; developing concepts of signal-detection
statistics and eye-diagram measurement schemes.
CO5: Design methods for digital and analog links, link power budgets and bandwidth
limitations, error control methods for digital links, etc. Principles of WDM, examples of active
and passive WDM devices, fiber Bragg grating, waveguide grating, diffraction gratings, etc.
CO6: Take up projects using different concepts for creating Optical amplification, origin and
effects of nonlinear processes in optical fibers, system performance and control, solution etc.

--- Page 42 ---
VLSI Technology
VlSI Technology L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 Providing exposure to different steps involved in the fabrication of ICs using MOS
transistor, CMOS transistors and passive components.
 To explain electrical properties of MOS devices to analyze the behavior of inverters
designed with various loads.
 Give exposure to the design rules to be followed to draw the layout of any logic circuit.
 Providing concept for design different types of logic gates using CMOS inverter and
analyze their transfer characteristics.
 Giving design concepts to design building blocks of data path of any system using gates.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1:
Introduction to VLSI design, Moore’s Law, VLSI Design flow, Design hierarchy, VLSI
Design style: Full custom, Gate array, standard‐cell, Macrocell based design, Field
programmable devices, design quality.
Module -2:
Electrical characteristics of MOSFET, Body effect, MOSFET scaling, Short‐channel effects.
Unit – 3: Unit process in VLSI: Wafer preparation, Oxidation, Diffusion, Ion implantation,
Deposition, Metallization, Etching and Lithography.
Module– 3:
IC fabrication: nMOS fabrication, n‐well and p‐well process, Stick diagram. Layout and
Layout design rules.
Module – 4:
CMOS Digital Circuits: General CMOS logic structure, VTC of inverter, noise margin,
Different types of inverter (resistive load, enhancement and depletion nMOS load and
CMOS), Switching characteristic (propagation delay and parasitic capacitance estimation),
switching power, latch‐up, sizing for large capacitive load, NAND, NOR and other complex
CMOS logic circuits. Dynamic CMOS logic circuits (Domino and NORA logic). Introducing
sequential CMOS logic circuits.
Module-5:
CMOS analog circuits: Differential Amplifier – Source coupled pair, CMRR, Basic CMOS
op‐Amp design.
Module-6:
Physical Design Automation: Objectives and goals of partitioning, floor planning and
placement, Global routing.
Module-7:
Advanced topic: Low power VLSI Design and Testing.

--- Page 43 ---
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. Neil Weste& Kamran Eshraghian, Principles of CMOS VLSI Design: A Systems
Perspective, Addison-Wesley Publishing Company,(1993).
2. Sung-Mo (Steve) Kang, Yusuf Leblebici, CMOS Digital Integrated Circuits Analysis &
Design, McGraw Hill Education; 3 edition (2002).
3. Simon Sze, Vlsi Technology,McGraw Hill Education; 2nd Edition (2017).
4. Sedra A.S. & Smith K.C., Microelectronic Circuits, Oxford University Press (2015).
5. Samir Palnitkar,VerilogHdl, Pearson Education; 2 edition (2003).
6. J. Bhasker, A Verilog HDL Primer, Star Galaxy Publishing ; 2nd Edition (1999).
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Acquire qualitative knowledge about different VLSI design styles and fabrication
process.
CO2: Gain knowledge about the electrical characteristics of MOSFET.
CO3: Develop knowledge about the electrical characteristics CMOS inverter.
CO4: Acquire concepts digital and analog circuit design with CMOS, pseudo N-MOS etc. and
layout design.
CO5: Develop concepts of VLSI physical design automation.
CO6: Develop the knowledge of low power design and fault testing.
CO7: Get acquainted with digital circuit design using HDL.

--- Page 44 ---
Information Theory and Coding
Information Theory And Coding L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 To expose the students to the basics of Information Theory and Coding Theory.
 To analyze the performance of different types of source and channel coding.
 To introduce the students to the basics of Network Information Theory.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1
Information Measure, Source Extension, Joint and Conditional Entropy, Mutual Information,
Differential Entropy, Asymptotic Equipartition Property, Source coding theorem, Kraft
McMillan Inequality, Arithmetic coding, Huffman and Lempel Ziv Algorithms, Rate
Distortion function and optimum quantizer design, lossless and lossy image compression.
Module- 2
Modeling of discrete memory less channels, Binary symmetric Channel and Binary Erasure
Channel, Shannon Channel coding theorem, lossless, distortion less and useless channel,
Gaussian channel capacity Theorem, Shannon Limit, Water-Filling Algorithm, rate distortion
theory.
Module- 3
Network Information Theory.
Module- 4
Motivation behind channel coding, Coding gain, Difference between hard decoding and soft
decoding. Linear block codes: design, syndrome detection and performance issues, Hamming
bound, Hamming code, cyclic codes, Convolution code: state diagram, Trellis Tree, Impulse
response of encoder. Maximum likelihood detection, Bounds on error probability,
Introduction to LDPC code, TURBO code and TRELLIS coded Modulation.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. Information Theory and Coding by Ranjan Bose
2. Communication System Engineering by Proakis and Salehi
3. Cryptography and Network Security by Forouzan and Mukhopadhaya
4. Cryptography and Network Security by William Stallings
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Understand the basic concepts of Information and Coding theories.
CO2: Analyze channel performance using Information Theory.
CO3: Comprehend various sources and channel coding techniques and analyze their
performance.
CO4: Use various Coding and Decoding Techniques for error detection and correction.
CO5: Be familiar with the basic concepts of Network Information Theory.

--- Page 45 ---
Data Communication Networks
Data Communication Networks L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To know the Standard Layered network Architecture (OSI and TCP/IP).
 To get acquainted with the functionalities of Each Layer.
 To understand the basics of Switching and subsequent advances in switching technologies.
 To get an overview of security issues in a network.
 To get an insight of network performance analysis.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
7-Layer/4- Layer network Architecture, Network Protocol Concepts.
Protocol Examples: Link layer protocols- X.25, RS232, RS485, Access protocols- IEEE
802.1, IEEE 802.2, IEEE 802.3 Ethernet, IEEE 802.4, IEEE 802.5, IEEE 802.11 WLAN,
IEEE 802.15, Routing protocols- OSPF, BGP, RIP. Drawbacks of layered architecture and
motivation to cross-layer optimization.
Module-2
Error control: CRC fundamentals. Concepts of finite field, Link layer protocols and
performance analysis, physical layer aware link layer performance.
Module-3
Network performance analysis, Queueing theory basics, Application of queueing analysis,
Multiaccess performance.
Module-4
Graph concepts of network, Network routing performance analysis.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. 1.Forouzan, Data Communications and Networking, McGraw Hill Education.
2. 2.Kurose and Ross, Computer Networking: A Top Down Approach, Pearson.
COURSE OUTCOME:
After the completion of the course, students:
CO1: Will have knowledge of OSI and TCP/IP layered architecture and their functionalities.
CO2: Will learn about wireless networking.
CO3: Will be familiar with various routing algorithms and switching techniques.
CO4: Will learn different error control and flow control techniques.
CO5: Will have knowledge of network performance analysis.

--- Page 46 ---
Microwave Engineering
Microwave engineering L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 To understand the basics of transmission line.
 To understand the basics of waveguides.
 To study the analysis of different microwave components.
 To study different waveguide resonators.
 To study klystron amplifier.
 To study different semiconductor microwave devices.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1
Transmission lines –TEM and Quasi‐TEM analysis, characteristic impedance, standing wave
ratio, impedance matching techniques, Smith Chart.
Module- 2
Modal analysis of rectangular waveguides –TE and TM modes, guide wavelength, cut‐off,
mode excitation, circular waveguides.
Module- 3
Passive microwave components – S matrix formalism, directional coupler, rat-race coupler,
waveguide tees, isolator, circulator, phase shifter, impedance matching.
Module- 4
Microwave Resonators – waveguide cavity resonators and transmission line resonators,
analysis of Q factor.
Module- 5
Vacuum tube microwave devices – Klystron ‐ velocity modulation and bunching, Reflex
klystron, traveling wave tube ‐ slow wave structure and Brillouin diagram, Magnetron.
Module- 6
Semiconductor microwave devices – Tunnel diode, Gunn diode, IMPATT diode, CCD,
heterojunction bipolar transistors – principle, characteristics, noise figure.
COURSE OUTCOME:
After successful completion of the course the students will be able to:
CO1: Realize the significance of studying transmission line.
CO2: Realize the significance of studying waveguide.
CO3: Understand the concept to analyze different microwave components.
CO4: Understand the way to generate and amplify microwave signals

--- Page 47 ---
TH
7 SEMESTER
Wireless Communication
Wireless Communication L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To make students familiar with fundamentals of wireless and mobile communication
systems and to impart an introduction to radio wave propagation techniques for mobile
wireless radio.
 To discuss various multiple access techniques for wireless communication and choose
system (TDMA/FDMA/CDMA) according to the complexity, installation cost, speed of
transmission, channel properties etc.
 To understand the concept ofpropagation mechanism
 To identify the requirements of mobile communication as compared to static
communication.
 To understand the concept of Teletraffic Theory
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1
Wireless Standards: Overview of 2G, 3G & 4G cellular standards. Cellular concepts-
frequency reuse, co-channel interference, adjacent channel interference -power control for
reducing interference, improving capacity in cellular systems – cell splitting, sectoring, hand
off strategies, channel assignment strategies, Teletraffic Theory.
Module- 2
Signal propagation-Propagation mechanism- reflection, refraction, diffraction and
scattering,large scale signal propagation and log normal shadowing. Link Budget Analysis.
Fading channels-Multipath and small scale fading- Doppler shift, statistical multipath channel
models, narrowband and wideband fading models, power delay profile, average and rms delay
spread, coherence bandwidth and coherence time, flat and frequency selective fading, slow
and fast fading, average fade duration and level crossing rate.
Module- 3
Notion of channel Capacity, capacity of fading channel, outage Probability analysis
Module- 4
QAM, MSK, GMSK, MC-modelling, DSSS, Introduction to space modulation’s index,
advantage, application, DVOR, Doppler Effect. OFDM, OFDMA, SCMA, Multiple access
schemes- FDMA, TDMA, CDMA and SDMA.
Module- 5
Resource allocation and optimization

--- Page 48 ---
Module- 6
Receiver structure- Diversity receivers- selection and MRC receivers, RAKE receiver,
equalization: linear-ZFE and adaptive DFE. Transmit diversity- Altamouti scheme. MIMO
and space time signal processing, spatial multiplexing, diversity/multiplexing trade off.
TEXT BOOK/REFERENCES:
1. Wireless Communications: Principles and Practice, Theodore Rappaport , Prentice Hall.
2. Wireless Communications: Andrea Goldsmith, Cambridge University Press.
3. Fundamentals of Wireless Communications, David Tse and Pramod Viswanath,
Cambridge University Press
COURSE OUTCOME:
After successful completion of the course the students will be able to:
CO1: To make students familiar with Wireless Standards& cellular communication.
CO2: To understand different issues regarding channels (fading etc.)
CO3: To understand the concept of Propagation mechanism.
CO4: Knowledge of the concept of.GSM architecture.
CO5: To make students familiar with cellular system
CO6: To understand the concept of Tele traffic Theory
CO7: Knowledge of Multiple access schemes.
CO8: To differentiate various Wireless LANs.

--- Page 49 ---
ELECTIVE SUBJECTS OF
TH TH
7 &8 SEMESTER
Adaptive Signal Processing
Adaptive Signal Processing L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1
Background from linear algebra, vector spaces, inner product, projection theorem, singular
value decomposition and Moore Penrose pseudo-inverse
Module 2
Random processes and signal modeling. Discrete time random processes, correlation and
power spectrum. Models: linear processes, harmonic processes, AR, MA, ARMA processes
Module 3
Wiener filters and linear prediction, optimal linear filtering, forward and backward prediction,
Levinson-Durbin algorithm, lattice predictors, joint-process estimation
Module 4
LMS adaptive filtering, method of steepest descent, LMS algorithm. Stability and
performance analysis.
Module 5
Method of least squares, least-squares solution, properties, recursive least-squares method.
TEXT BOOK/REFERENCES:
1. S. Haykin, Adaptive Filter Theory, 5th edition, Prentice Hall, 2013
2. G. Strang, inear algebra and its applications.5th edition, Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 2016

--- Page 50 ---
Advanced Semiconductor Devices
Advanced Semiconductor Devices L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1:
Basic Introduction: Classification and properties of semiconductor devices. Binary and ternary
semiconductors, dopants and impurities, temperature dependency, crystal structure of Si and
GaAs. Growth techniques of GaAs and InP by LPE and MBE.
Module- 2:
Contact and MESFET:Metail-semiconductor contacts: ohmic and schottky contact, interface
trap density issues, non-idealities (image force lowering and quantum mechanical tunnelling),
Fermi level pinning, I-V characteristics. Motel semiconductor field effect transistor: operation
and I-V characteristics, Shockley’s model, velocity saturation effect, gradual channel
approximation model. Velocity overshot effect.
Module- 3:
Hetero junction: different types of heterojunctions, band diagram. Importance of hetero
junctions. High electron mobility transistors: AlGaAs/GaAs HEMT structure, band diagram,
operation and I-V characteristics. Pseudomorphic (AlGaAs/InGaAs) and metamorphic
(InAlAs/InGaAs) HEMT structures and their advantages.
Module- 4:
Heterojunction bipolar transistor: comparison between BJT and HBT, device structure and
operation, current gain (β) calculation, effect of surface passivation in current gain.
Module- 5:
Solar cell: operations, I-V characteristics, maximum power transfer equation, fill factor,
efficiency. Heterojunction solar cell (AlGaAs/GaAs), multi junction solar cell.
Module- 6:
Power devices: basic requirements of power semiconductor devices: on resistance, specific
resistance, breakdown voltage. Power MOSFET, IGBT.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. VLSI fabrication principle, by Sorab K. Gandhi, Wiley India.
2. Physics of semiconductor devices, S.M. Sze, Wiley
3. Semiconductor optoelectronics devices, by Pallab Bhattacharya, PHI.
4. Fundamental of power semiconductor devices, by Jayant Baliga, Springer.

--- Page 51 ---
Advanced Digital Systems
Advanced Digital Systems L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1
Introduction to Digital IC design flow, Gate-Level, Dataflow & Behavioral Modeling of
digital circuits.
Module- 2
Timing characteristics of combinational logic design and Sequential machines, system
decomposition, arithmetic Module-s, ALU design.
Module- 3
Programming of complex digital logic circuits using HDL: Encoder/Decoder, Counters, shift
registers, ADC, DAC, PLD etc.
Module- 4
Finite State Machines: Design and applications.
Module- 5
Programmable Memory elements: Structure and basic working principle of SRAM and
DRAM, Scratchpads and cache memory, SOC memory systems, Board-based memory
systems.
Module- 6
Design and operation of Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGA), CLB, Look up Table,
routing architectures.
Module- 7
FPGA design flow based on HDL, FPGA system implementation, verification and testing.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Verilog HDL, a Guide to Digital Design and Synthesis”, Samir Palnitkar, 2003
2. HDL CHIP DESIGN”, Douglas J. Smith, 2002
3. Verilog Designer’s Library”, Bob Zeidman, 2003
4. Computer system design: system-on-chip”, M.J. Flynn & W. Luk, Wiley, 2011.
5. Digital Design, an Embedded Systems Approach Using VHDL”, Peter J. Ashenden,
Elsevier, 2008.

--- Page 52 ---
Radar & Navigation Systems
Radar & Navigation Systems L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction to Radar– concept, block diagram , operation , frequency ranges , applications ,
range equation. Radar performance factors – minimum detectable signal , receiver noise ,
Signal to Noise ratio ,Radar cross section of targets , transmitter power , pulse repetition
frequency ,range ambiguities
Module-2
Types of Radar, Primary and secondary radar: SR/ASR/PSR/PAR/ARSR/ASMGCS.Doppler
effect , FM - CW Radar , MTI Radar, MTI Signal Processor , Pulse Doppler Radar , Radar
displays – A Scope – PPI Scope.
Module-3
Radio Navigation - methods of navigation , Radio direction finder , Radio Navigation systems
- ADF / NDB , Radio compass ADF, VHF phase comparison using ADF , Hyperbolic
navigation systems – basic principle , LORAN, Omega, DECCA , Radio ranges , VOR –
ground equipment , VOR receiver , Doppler VOR /DME
Module-4
Approach and landing aids: Instrument Landing System (ILS) – elements, localizer, glide
Path, marker beacons: OM, MM, IM, lighting systems, Co-located GP/DME, operation,
limitation. Microwave Landing System (MLS) – operation, advantages & disadvantages.
Navigation systems – INS and DNS.
Satellite Navigation systems – Concept of L1, L2 and L5, GPS: Constellation, Signal format,
GPS signal scintillation, GPS errors, GPS segment (User, Control, and Ground), group
velocity. DGPS , GNSS , COMPASS ,DORIS , GALILEO ,IRNSS , QZSS (concept
only),SBAS,GAGAN.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Introduction to Radar Systems – Merrill I. Skolnik , McGraw Hill
2. Radar Systems and Radio Aids to Navigation – Dr. A. K. Sen, Dr. A. B. Bhattacharya,
Khanna Publishers
3. Elements of Electronic Navigation – N. S. Nagaraja , Tata McGraw Hill

--- Page 53 ---
Advanced Control System
Advanced Control System L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
State Variable Design: Effect of State Variable feedback on controllability and observability,
Design of state feedback control through pole placement, Design of full order and reduced
order observer.
Module-2
Non-linear System: Introduction, common physical nonlinearities, linearization of non-linear
mathematical models.
Module-3
Describing function Analysis: Fundamentals, computation of Describing function, Describing
function analysis of common nonlinearities, limit cycle ,Describing function method for
stability analysis.
Module-4
Phase plane Analysis: Phase portraits, singular points, method of isoclines, delta method,
phase portrait of second order non-linear systems, limit cycle.
Module-5
Lyapunov Stability method: Concept of asymptotic stability, Lyapunov functions, stability
analysis by Lyapunov direct method, generation of Lyapunov function by Aizermen’s method,
Krasovskii method and variable gradient method
Module-6
Optimal Control: Introduction, formulation of optimal control problem, minimum time,
minimum energy, minimum fuel problem, state regulator problem, output regulator problem,
tracking problem, continuous time linear regulator.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Norman S. Nise, Control System Engineering , Wiley Publishing Co.
2. Gopal: Modern Control System Theory, New Age International
3. Anand and Zmood, Introduction to Control Systems, 3rd edition, Butterworth-Heinemann
Ltd., 1995.
4. John Doyle, Bruce Francis, and Allen Tannenbaum, Feedback Control Theory,Macmillan
Publishing Co., 1990.
5. Stanislaw h. Zak, Systems and Control.
6. Hassan K. Khalil, Nonlinear systems, 3rd edition, Prentice Hall, 2002.
7. J. E. Slotine& W. Li, Applied Nonlinear Control, PH International.
8. Jean-Jacques E Slotine and Weiping Li, Applied Nonlinear Control, Prentice Hall,1991.
9. Jean-Jacques E Slotine and Weiping Li, Applied Nonlinear Control, Prentice Hall,1991.
10. Donald E. Kirk, Optimal Control theory – An Introduction.
11. Brian D. O. Anderson and John B. Moore, Optimal Control: Linear Quadratic Methods,
PH.

--- Page 54 ---
VLSI for Wireless Communication
VLSI for Wireless Communication L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1
Introduction: Overview of wireless channels and impairments, multipath fading, signaling
over fading channel, Wireless Channel Description, Path Loss, Multipath Fading, Channel
Model and Envelope Fading, Frequency Selective and Fast Fading
Module 2
Receiver Architectures: Receiver Front End, Filter Design, NF, IIP3 of receiver Front End,
Module 3
Low Noise Amplifier and mixer: Narrow Band and Wideband LNA Design: Active mixture,
Banancing, conversion gain, distortion- low and high frequency. Passive mixture-switching
mixture, distortion, conversion gain and noise in unbalanced switching mixture. Sampling
mixture.
Module 4
Analog-to-Digital Converters: Demodulators, A/D converters Used in a Receiver, Low-Pass
Sigma-Delta Modulators, Implementation of Low-Pass Sigma-Delta Modulators, Bandpass
Sigma-Delta Modulators, Implementation of Bandpass Sigma-Delta Modulators.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Bosco Leung, "VLSI for Wireless Communication, Second Edition, Springer

--- Page 55 ---
Operating Systems
Operating Systems L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module–1
Introduction: Fundamentals of Operating System, The need for Operating System, Evolution
of Operating System, Types of Operating System: batch, multi-programmed, time-sharing,
real-time, distributed, parallel, Goals of an Operating System, Operating System Architecture.
Module-2
Processes management: Introduction of Process Management, Implicit/System and Non–
implicit/User Process, Life cycle of a process, Process State and State Transitions, Suspended
Process and Their State Transition, Process Control Block, Context Switching, Process
Switching .Processes scheduling: Introduction, Scheduling types, Scheduling Levels, Pre-
emptive & Non-preemptive Scheduling, Scheduling Algorithm-(FIFO, SJF, SRTN, SRRN,
RR and Multilevel Queue).
Module- 3
Process communication and synchronization: Introduction, Concurrent Process, Critical
section, Algorithm Approach to CS Implementation –Two Process Solution, Dekker’s
Solution, Peterson’s Solution, Semaphore, Solution of Producer –Consumer, Solution of
Reader –writer Problem, Monitor. Deadlocks: Introduction, Definition of Deadlock, Modelling
Of Deadlock, Conditions for Deadlock, Dealing With Deadlock, Deadlock Prevention,
Deadlock Avoidance- Dijkstra’s Bankers Algorithm, Deadlock detection, Recovery from
Deadlock, Starvation. Thread: Introduction, Threading issues, Thread Control Block, Types of
Threads-User Threads, Kernel Threads, Hybrid Threads, Linux Threads, Java Threads.
Module-4
Memory management: Introduction, logical vs. physical address space, Swapping, Contiguous
memory allocation, Non - Contiguous memory allocation, Paging Concept, Page Table
Structure, Segmentation. Virtual memory: Introduction, Need for Virtual Memory, Demand
Paging, Page Replacement Algorithm-FIFO Page-replacement Algorithm, Optimal Page-
replacement Algorithm, Least Recently Page-replacement Algorithm, Thrashing.
Module-5
I/O and file systems: File concept, Access methods, Directory structure , File Attributes, File
Operation, file system hierarchy, Types Of I/O , Input-Output Software, Kernel I/O Sub-
Syatem. Disk management: Disk Structure, Disk Scheduling (FCFS, SSTF, SCAN, C-SCAN),
RAID Structure. Security: Security Problem,User Authentication , Security Levels, Computer-
Security Classifications
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Operating System Principles by Silberschatz A. and Peterson J. L., Wiley
2. Operating Systems by Dhamdhere, TMH
3. Operating Systems by NareshChauhan ,Oxford
4. Operating Systems by P.Balakrishna Prasad
5. Operating Systems by Deitel, &Choffnes.
6. Operating Systems by Stalling, Pearson

--- Page 56 ---
Object Oriented Programming
Object Oriented Programming L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Object oriented programming concepts – objects – classes – methods and messages –
abstraction and encapsulation – inheritance – abstract classes – polymorphism. Introduction to
C++ – classes – access specifiers – function and data members – defaultarguments – function
overloading – friend functions – const and volatile functions –staticmembers – Objects –
pointers and objects – constant objects – nested classes – localclasses
Module-2
Constructors – default constructor – Parameterized constructors – Constructor with dynamic
allocation – copy constructor – destructors – operator overloading – overloading through
friend functions – overloading the assignment operator – type conversion – explicit
constructor
Module-3
Function and class templates - Exception handling – try-catch-throw paradigm –exception
specification – terminate and Unexpected functions – Uncaught exception.
Module-4
Inheritance – public, private, and protected derivations – multiple inheritance–virtualbase
class – abstract class – composite objects Runtime polymorphism – virtualfunctions – pure
virtual functions.
Module-5
Streams and formatted I/O – I/O manipulators - file handling – random access – object
serialization – namespaces - std namespace – ANSI String Objects – standard template
library.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Object Oriented Programming with C++ by E Balaguruswamy
2. The Complete Reference C++ by Herbert Schildt

--- Page 57 ---
Nano-Technology
Nano-Technology L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1
Introduction: Introduction to nanomaterials, Properties of materials & nanomaterials, role of
size in nanomaterials, nanoparticles, semiconducting nanoparticles, nanowires, nanoclusters.
Zero-, One-, Two- and Three- dimensional structure, Size control of metal Nanoparticles and
their properties: Optical, Electronic, Magnetic properties; Surface Plasmon, Resonance,
Change of bandgap.
Module 2
Physics of material: Schrodinger equation, Solutions of the Schrodinger equation for free
particle, particle in a box, particle in a finite well, Reflection and transmission by a potential
step and by a rectangular barrier. Electronic Properties: Free electron theory, Band theory of
solids, Bloch theorem, Kroning-Penne model, Metals and Insulators, Semiconductors:
Classification, Transport properties, Size and Dimensionality effects, Band structures,
Brillouin zones, Mobility, Resistivity, Relaxation time, Recombination centers, Hall effects.
Module 3
Synthesis process: top-down and bottom-up approach, Chemical process: Sol-gel synthesis;
Microemulsions or reverse micelles, myle formation; Solvothermal synthesis; Thermolysis
routes, Microwave heating synthesis; Sonochemical synthesis; Electrochemical synthesis.
Physics process: RF plasma, MW plasma, Ion sputtering, Laser ablation, Laser pyrolysis, Ball
Milling, Molecular beam epitaxy, Chemical vapour deposition method and Electro deposition.
Module 4
Characterization process structural characterization: X-Ray diffraction, scanning electron
microscopy (SEM), scanning probe microscopy (SPM), TEM, EDAX analysis, scanning
tunnelling microscopy (STM), atomic force microscopy (AFM).Spectroscopic
characterization: operation and principle, UV-VIS-IR spectrophotometer, raman spectroscopy.
Surface characterization: x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (xps), Auger electron
spectroscopy, Low Energy Ion Scattering Spectroscopy (LEISS), Secondary Ion Mass
Spectroscopy (SIMS), and Rutherford Backscattering Spectroscopy (RBS).
Module 5
Nanodevices : spin gate transistor, electron wave transistor, quantum dot array, quantum
computer, bit and qubit. Resonance tunnelling devices (RTD), single electron transistors
(SET), Super conducting switching Devices: Cryotron, Josephson Tunneling Devices.
Nanosensors: fundamental of sensors, sensor for aerospace and defence: Accelerometer,
Pressure Sensor, Night Vision System, Nano tweezers. MEMS and NEMS.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Quantum Mechanisc: theory and application. By AjoyGhatak and S. Lokanathan,
Macmillan India.
2. Chemistry of nanomaterials : Synthesis, properties and applications. By C.N.R. Rao.
wiley
3. Microfabrication and Nanomanufacturing. By Mark James Jackson, CRC press.
4. Physical Principles of Electron Microscopy: An Introduction to TEM, SEM, and AEM, by
Ray F. Egerton, springer.
5. Thermal Analysis of Materials, by Robert F Speyer, New York.

--- Page 58 ---
Machine learning &Artificial Intelligence
Machine learning &Artificial Intelligence L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1
Introduction: The foundations of AI. Importance of AI and related fields.
Module 2
Rules: Working memory, Rule base, Conflict set, Conflict resolution strategies, backward and
forward chaining, meta rules.
Module 3
Logic: Propositional and Predicate logic, Representation atoms, connectives, literals, CNF,
DNF and casual form, interpretation and model, satisfiability, resolution principle and
unification.
Module 4
Structure Representation: Semantic networks, frames, conceptual dependency, scripts,
inheritance, default values.
Module 5
Reasoning under Uncertainty: Basic probability notation, probabilistic reasoning, Bayesian
networks, certainty factor methods.
Module 6
Introduction to fuzzy set: Introduction to fuzzy set, Fuzy membership functions, T-Norm, S-
Norm, Complement in fuzzy sets, Fuzzy Relations, Linguistic Hedges
Module 7
Reasining with Fuzzy logic:Introduction to Fuzzy Implication rules and Fuzzy logic.
Module 8
General issues in knowledge representation and interference: logical agents, reasoning and
resolution, adequacy, richness, granularity, ease of representation and use, modeling
uncertainty, the fame problem, declarative and procedural representation.
Module 9
Problem solving by Searching: State space representation, heuristics, heuristic evolution
function, and problem reduction. Searching for solutions. Informed and uninformed search
strategies.
Module 10
Search Methods: generate and test, hill climbing, means ends analysis, depth first, breath-first,
best -first, exploiting domain constraints, dependency directed back tracking, minimax, alpha-
beta pruning, and iterative deepening.

--- Page 59 ---
Module 11
Learning: Introduction to Supervised and Unsupervised Learning, Fuzzy C-means clustering,
Linear Classification using neural net.
Module 12
Introduction to Evolutionary computing: Basic Introduction to genetic algorithm.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. S. Russell and P. Norvig, “Artificial Intelligence: a modern approach”, Prentice Hall,
2. Amit Konar,“Artificial intelligence and soft computing: behavioral and cognitive
modeling of the human brain.” CRC press

--- Page 60 ---
Laser and Nonlinear Optics
Laser and Nonlinear Optics L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1
Introduction to Lasers, Properties of Lasers, Solid state lasers, Linear Optics in Homogeneous
and Isotropic Media, Optical wave in anisotropic media.
Module 2
Optical Response of an Harmonic Oscillator, Nonlinear Susceptibility Tensors, Nonlinear
Wave Propagation, Second Harmonic Generation, Three Wave Mixing, Phase Matching,
Frequency Conversion Devices.
Module 3
Optical Response Of An Atomic System, Nonlinear Optical Susceptibilities, Nonlinear
Optical Materials, Organic Nonlinear Optical Materials.
Module 4
General Theory Of Four-Ware-Mixing, Nonlinear Refraction And Absorption, Self Focusing,
Saturation Of Absorption, Two-Photon Absorption, Kerr Lens Modelocking, Optical Phase
Conjugation And Degenerate Four-Wave-Mixing, Inelastic Scattering Processes, Stimulated
Raman Scattering(SRS), Stimulated Brillouin Scattering Consequences Of The Stimulated
Scattering In Optical Communication
Module 5
Propagation In Fibers, Pulse Propagation In A Linear Dispersive Medium, Optical Pulse
Propagation In Nonlinear Medium, Solitons In Optical Fibers, Long Distance Soliton
Transmission System.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Laser and Fundamentals by W.T. Silvast
2. Laser: theory and Applications, K. Thyagarajan and A. K. Ghatak
3. Laser and Nonlinear Optics, B.B. Laud
4. Nonlinear Fiber Optics, Govind Agrawal(5thEdn)

--- Page 61 ---
Fuzzy Logic and Neural Network
Fuzzy Logic and Neural Network L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1
Introduction to Neural Networks: Introduction, Humans and Computers, Organization of the
Brain, Biological Neuron, Biological and Artificial Neuron Models, Characteristics of ANN,
McCulloch‐Pitts Model, Historical Developments, Potential Applications of ANN.
Module 2
Essentials of Artificial Neural Networks: Artificial Neuron Model, Operations of Artificial
Neuron, ANN Architectures, Classification Taxonomy of ANN – Connectivity, Learning
Strategy (Supervised, Unsupervised, Reinforcement), Learning Rules.
Module 3
Single Layer Feed Forward Neural Networks: Introduction, Perceptron Models: Discrete,
Continuous and Multi‐Category, Training Algorithms: Discrete and Continuous Perceptron
Networks, Limitations of the Perceptron Model.
Module 4
Multilayer Feed forward Neural Networks : Credit Assignment Problem, Generalized Delta
Rule, Derivation of Backpropagation (BP) Training, Summary of Back propagation
Algorithm, Kolmogorov Theorem, Learning Difficulties and Improvements.
Module 5
Associative Memories: Paradigms of Associative Memory, Pattern Mathematics, Hebbian
Learning, General Concepts of Associative Memory, Bidirectional Associative Memory
(BAM) Architecture, BAM Training Algorithms: Storage and Recall Algorithm, BAM Energy
Function. Architecture of Hopfield Network: Discrete and Continuous versions, Storage and
Recall Algorithm, Stability Analysis.
Module 6
Fuzzy Set and Fuzzy Logic: Introduction to fuzzy set, System Components Fuzzification,
Membership value assignment, development of rule base and decision making system,
Defuzzification to crisp sets, Defuzzification methods.
Module7
RecentAdvances: Fundamentals Of Genetic Algorithms – Genetic Modeling – Hybrid
Systems – Integration Of Fuzzy Logic, Neural Networks And Genetic Algorithms – Non
Traditional Optimization Techniques Like Ant Colony Optimization – Particle Swarm
Optimization And Artificial Immune Systems – Applications In Design And Manufacturing.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Russell Eberhart and Yuhui Shi, “Computational Intelligence: Concepts to
Implementations”, Elsevier
2. Amit Konar, “Computational intelligence: principles, techniques and applications”,
Springer Science & Business Media.
3. John Fulcher, " Computational intelligence: a compendium”, Springer.

--- Page 62 ---
Digital Speech Processing
Digital Speech Processing L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1
Digital models for the speech signal - mechanism of speech production – acoustic theory –
Portnoff’s equations-lossless tube models – complete speech production model- digital models
Module 2
Speech analysis:-linear prediction of speech - auto correlation - formulation of LPC equation -
Solution of LPC equations - Levinson Durbin algorithm - Levinson recursion - Schur
algorithm - lattice formulations and solutions – PARCOR coefficients
Module 3
Speech synthesis - pitch extraction algorithms - Gold Rabiner pitch trackers –autocorrelation
pitch trackers - voice/unvoiced detection - homomorphic speech processing – homomorphic
systems for convolution - complex Cepstrums – pitch extraction using homomorphic speech
processing.Spectral analysis of speech - short time Fourier analysis – STFT interpretations-
filter
bank summation method of short time synthesis
Module-4
Automatic speech recognition systems - isolated word recognition - connected word
recognition -large vocabulary word recognition systems - pattern classification - DTW,HMM -
speaker recognition systems - speaker verification systems – speaker identification Systems.
TEXTREFERENCES:
1. Rabiner L.R. & Schafer R.W., “Digital Processing of Speech Signals”, Prentice Hall Inc.,
1978.
2. Thomas F. Quatieri, “Discrete-time Speech Signal Processing: Principles and Practice”
Prentice Hall, Signal Processing Series, 1st Edn., 2001.
3. O’Shaughnessy, D. “Speech Communication, Human and Machine”. John Wiley & Sons;
2nd Edn,1999.
4. Deller, J., J. Proakis, and J. Hansen. “Discrete-Time Processing of Speech Signals.”
Wiley-IEEE Press, Reprint edition, 1999.
5. Owens F.J., “Signal Processing of Speech”, Macmillan New Electronics, 1993.
6. Saito S. & Nakata K., “Fundamentals of Speech Signal Processing”, Academic Press, Inc.,
1985.
7. Papamichalis P.E., “Practical Approaches to Speech Coding”, Texas Instruments, Prentice
Hall,1987.
8. Rabiner L.R. & Gold, “Theory and Applications of Digital Signal Processing”, Prentice
Hall of
1. India,1975.
9. Jayant, N. S. and P. Noll. “Digital Coding of Waveforms: Principles and Applications to
Speech and Video. Signal Processing Series”, Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, 2004.
10. Thomas Parsons, “Voice and Speech Processing”, McGraw Hill Series, 1986.
11. Chris Rowden, “Speech Processing”, McGraw-Hill International Limited, 1992.

--- Page 63 ---
Digital Image Processing
Digital Image Processing L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1:
Concept of analog and digital images and two dimensional signal processing. Processing
levels of digital images. Utilization of radio frequency spectrum for DIP: basic idea about
BioMedical, Seismic, Astronomical, Remote sensing, earth resource exploration related
images. Fundamental processes of DIP such as enhancement, restoration, segmentation,
compression, object classification, detection and recognition.
Module 2:
Basic mathematical transformations related to DIP : continuous and discrete Fourier
transform, Matrix manipulation to achieve image processing, Slant, Hadamard, Haar
transformation etc. Geometrical Spatial transform, concept of linearity in images, concept of
image registration, fusion of more than one images, concept of optical flow between two
images, application of fuzzy logic in image processing, Image interpolation, zooming,
shrinking, replication and reduction, false contouring and chess boars appearance in images.
Module 3:
Fundamental concept of image formation and digitization, memory space required for image
storage and transmission, gray level and colour images, gray level discrimination, Weber ratio,
relative intensity.
Module 4:
Various neighborhood concept between image pixels, digital path and distance, image
graphics fundamentals. Histogram of images, local and global histogram techniques,
histogram specification and equalization, histogram of orientation gradient.
Module 5:
Image enhancement in space domain, gray level adjustment, various transformation of gray
levels, Spatial domain filtering by spatial masks, two dimensional spatial convolution
between imageand filtering mask, high pass and low pass spatial filtering of images, standard
low pass filter masks. Unsharpmasking and high boost filter in space domain.
Module 6:
Image enhancement in frequency domain, basic process steps for frequency domain filtering,
ideal, Butterworth and Gaussian low pass and high pass filters. Notch filters. Unsharpmasking
and high boost filter in frequency domain, adaptive filters.
Module 7:
Image degradation and restoration, basic model, various types of additive and non-additive
noises and their statistical nature, linear space domain filters, order statistic filters. Homo-
morphic filters. Image reconstruction by parallel beam and fan beam back projection method,
Filtered back projection method, Lucy Richardson algorithm.

--- Page 64 ---
Module 8:
Fundamental of color image processing. Various color spaces and their significances and
applications.
Module 9:
Discrete Wavelet transform and multi resolution theory. Implementation of image processing
steps by wavelet transform.
Module 10:
Lossless and lossy Image compression techniques and different coding methods. Discrete
cosine transform and Fractal compression of images.
Module 11:
Morphological image processing methods. Erosion, dilation, opening, closing formulas for
binary and gray scale images. Filtering by morphological processing method.
Module 12:
Image segmentation : dis-similarity and similarity based segmentation, morphological based
segmentation. Various edge detectors, thresholding, region growing, merge and split methods.
Module 13:
Image representation and description. Various coding and algorithms. Detection of image
features.
Module 14:
Object detection and recognition. Principal component analysis, neural network,
morphological based recognition process. Support vector machine and Laplacian Support
vector machine as classifiers.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Fundamental of Digital Image Processing- Gonzalez and Woods (Pearson)
2. Digital image Processing using Matlab- Gonzalez, Woods and Eddins (TMH)
3. Fundamental of Digital Image Processing- A.K. Jain (PHI)
4. Digital Image Processing – Jay Raman (TMH)
5. Digital Image processing – Sreedhar (Oxford University Press)Digital Image Processing –
Madhuri Joshi (PHI)

--- Page 65 ---
Cryptography & network security
Cryptography & network security L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction: Security Policies, Model of network security, Security attacks, services and
mechanisms, OSI security architecture, Classical encryption techniques.
Module-2
Symmetric Key Cryptography: Mathematics of symmetric key cryptography: Modular
arithmetic, Euclid’s algorithm, Linear Congruence, Matrices, Block ciphers and Stream
ciphers, Symmetric key ciphers: DES, Differential and linear cryptanalysis, AES, RC4.
Module-3
Public Key Cryptography: Mathematics of asymmetric key cryptography: Primes, Primality
Testing, Factorization, Euler‘s totient function, Fermat‘s and Euler‘s Theorem, Chinese
Remainder Theorem, Exponentiation and logarithm, Asymmetric Key Ciphers: RSA
cryptosystem, Key distribution, Key management, Diffie- Hellman key exchange , ElGamal
cryptosystem, Elliptic curve arithmetic, Elliptic curve cryptography.
Module-4
Message Authentication And Integrity: Authentication function, MAC, Hash function,
Security of hash function and MAC, SHA, Digital signature and authentication protocols,
DSS, Entity Authentication: Biometrics, Passwords, Challenge Response protocols-
Authentication applications – Kerberos.
Module-5
Security Practice And System Security: PGP, S/MIME, IP security, Web Security, System
Security: Intruders – Malicious software – viruses – Firewalls, SSL and TSL.
TEXT/REFERENCE:
1. William Stallings, Cryptography and Network Security: Principles and Practice, PHI
2. Forouzan and Mukhopadhyay, , Cryptography and Network Security, Mc Graw Hill.

--- Page 66 ---
Biomedical signal Processing
Biomedical signal Processing L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1:
Introduction: Preliminaries, Different biomedical signals: ECG, EEG, EMG etc. necessity of
special attention in biomedical signal processing.
Module 2:
Filtering: Statistical preliminaries, Time Domain Filtering: Synchronized Average, Moving
Average, Moving Average Filter to Integration, Derivative-based operator. Frequency Domain
Filtering: Notch Filter, the Weiner Filter. Adaptive Filtering
Module 3:
Event Detection: Example of events: P, QRS and T wave in ECG, Derivative based
Approaches for QRS Detection, Pan Tompkins Algorithm for QRS Detection. Dicrotic Notch
Detection, Correlation Analysis of EEG Signal
Module 4:
Waveform Analysis: Illustrations of problem with case studies Morphological Analysis of
ECG Correlation coefficient The Minimum phase correspondent and Signal Length, Envelop
Extraction Amplitude demodulation The Envelogram
Module 5:
Analysis of activity: Root Mean Square value Zero-crossing rate Turns Count, Form factor,
Frequency-domain Analysis Periodogram
TEXT/REFERENCE:
1. Eugene N. Bruce, Biomedical Signal Processing and Signal Modeling, John Wiley & Sons
2. Steven Kay, Fundamentals of Statistical Signal Processing, Prentice Hall

--- Page 67 ---
Robotics
Robotics L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1:
Introduction: Science and Technology of robots.
Module 2:
Fundamentals of Robotic System , Position and orientation of a rigid body, Homogeneous
transformations, Representation of joints, link representation using D-H parameters, Examples
of D-H parameters and link transforms, different kinds of actuators – stepper, DC servo and
brushless motors, model of a DC servo motor, Types of transmissions, Purpose of sensors,
internal and external sensors, common sensors – encoders, tachometers, strain gauge based
force-torque sensors, proximity and distance measuring sensors.
Module 3:
Kinematics of serial robots:Fundamentals, Direct and inverse kinematics problems, Examples
of kinematics of common serial manipulators, workspace of a serial robot, Inverse kinematics
of constrained and redundant robots, Tractrix based approach for fixed and free robots and
multi-body systems, simulations and experiments, Solution techniques using theory of
elimination, Inverse kinematics solution for the general 6R serial manipulator.
Module 4:
Kinematics of parallel robots: Degrees-of-freedom of parallel mechanisms and manipulators,
Active and passive joints, Constraint and loop-closure equations, Direct kinematics problem,
Mobility of parallel manipulators, Closed-from and numerical solution, Inverse kinematics of
parallel manipulators and mechanisms, Direct kinematics of Gough-Stewart platform.
Module 5:
Velocity and statics of robot manipulating systems: Linear and angular velocity of links,
Velocity propagation, Manipulator Jacobians for serial and parallel manipulators, Velocity
ellipse and ellipsoids, Singularity analysis for serial and parallel manipulators, Loss and gain
of degrees of freedom, Statics of serial and parallel manipulators, Statics and force
transformation matrix of a Gough-Stewart platform, Singularity analysis and statics.

--- Page 68 ---
Module 6:
Dynamics of serial and parallel robots :Mass and inertia of links, Lagrangian formulation for
equations of motion for serial and parallel manipulators, Generation of symbolic equations of
motion using a computer, Simulation (direct and inverse) of dynamic equations of motion,
Examples of a planar 2R and four-bar mechanism, Recursive dynamics, Commercially
available multi-body simulation software (ADAMS) and Computer algebra software Maple.
Module 7:
Motion planning and control : Joint and Cartesian space trajectory planning and generation,
Classical control concepts using the example of control of a single link, Independent joint PID
control, Control of a multi-link manipulator, Non-linear model based control schemes,
Simulation and experimental case studies on serial and parallel manipulators, Control of
constrained manipulators, Cartesian control, force control and hybrid position and force
control, Advanced topics in non-linear control of manipulators.
Module 8:
Modeling and control of flexible robots : Few Models of flexible links and joints, Kinematic
modeling of multi-link flexible robots, Dynamics and control of flexible link manipulators,
Numerical simulation results,
TEXT/REFERENCE:
1. Murray, R.M., Li, Z., and Sastry,S.S.,A Mathematical Introduction to Robotic
Manipulator, CRC Press, 1994.
2. Merlet, J.-P.,ParallelRobots,Kluwer Academic, Dordrecht, 2001.
3. Featherstone, R.S., Robot Dynamics Algorithms,Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1987.
4. Haug,E.J., Computer-Aided Kinematics and Dynamics of Mechanical Systems: Basic
Methods,Vol. 1,Allyn and Bacon, 1989.
5. Siciliano,B., and Khatib, O.(Editors), Handbook of Robotics, Springer, 2008.
6. Craig, J. J., Introduction to Robotics: Mechanics and Control, 2nd Edition, Addison-
Wesley, 1989.
7. Robotics: Fundamental Concepts and Analysis, Oxford University Press, Second reprint,
May 2008.

--- Page 69 ---
Smart Antenna
Smart Antenna L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction, Need of Smart Antenna Systems, Overview of smart antenna systems, The
Vector Channel Impulse Response and the Spatial Signature, Spatial Processing Receivers,
Fixed Beam forming Networks, Switched Beam Systems, Hybrid Beamformer, Overview of
distributed beamforming, interference rejection using adaptive antennas.
Module-2
Adaptive Antenna Systems, Wideband Smart Antennas, Diversity Techniques, Multiple Input
- Multiple Output (MIMO) Communications Systems, MIMO for frequency selective
scenarios. SDMA using smart antennas.
Module-3
Sample matrix inversion algorithm, unconstrained LMS algorithm, normalized LMS
algorithm, Constrained LMS algorithm, Perturbation algorithms, Neural network approach,
Adaptive beam space processing, Implementation issues.
Module-4
Direction of Arrival (DOA) Estimation for smart antennas: Spectral estimation methods, linear
prediction method, Maximum entropy method, Maximum likelihood method, Eigen structure
methods, MUSIC algorithm – root music and cyclic music algorithm, the ESPRIT algorithm.
TEXT/REFERENCE:
1. R.A. Monzingo, R.A. Haupt, W.H. Miller, “Introduction to Adaptive Arrays”, SciTech
Publishing Inc.
2. Frank Gross, “Smart Antennas for Wireless Communications”, Mc Graw Hill.
3. Ahmed El-Zooghby, “Smart Antenna Engineering”, Artech House Publishers.
4. Constantine Balanis, “Introduction to Smart Antennas”, Morgan and Claypool Publishers.
5. J. Liberti, T.S. Rappaport, “Smart Antennas for Wireless Communications-IS-95 and
Third Generation CDMA Applications”, Prentice Hall

--- Page 70 ---
Wireless Network
Wireless Network L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Wireless Networking: Primer on wireless communications and networking A. Physical
layer, OFDM and 802.11 (WiFi) PH, Multi-antenna systems and MIMO, Overview of
802.11n/ac PHY including beam forming MAC layer -CSMA/CA and WiFi MAC overview,
Wide bandwidth channel access techniques (802.11n/ac), Energy efficiency and rate control.
Module-2
Multi-Gigabit Wireless Networks: Next generation (5G) wireless technologies Upper
Gigahertz and Terahertz wireless communications A. Millimeter wave networking,
Directionality and beamforming, Mobility and signal blockage, IEEE 802.11ad (60 GHz
WLAN) MAC and PHY overview. B. Visible light communication, High-speed networking
using LEDs, IEEE 802.15.7 PHY and MAC overview, C. Sensing through visible light,
visible light indoor localization and positioning
Module-3
Indoor Localization and RF Sensing: A.Smartphone localization, WiFi fingerprinting,
protocols and challenges, Non-WiFi localization, B.Device-free sensing with radio frequency,
Mining wireless PHY channel state information, Device-free localization and indoor human
tracking, Activity and gesture recognition through RF.
Module-4
Low-Power Networking: A.Backscatter communication, Radio Frequency Identification
(RFID) technology overview, Energy harvesting tags and applications, B. Internet-of-Things
(IoT), IoT protocol overview - CoAP and MQTT, IPv6 networking in low-power PANs
(6LoWPAN).
Module-5
Quality of service, quality of user experience, Cross layer design concept.
Module-6
Future Mobile Networks: A.Drone networking - Multi-UAV networks, architectures and
civilian applications -Communication challenges and protocols for micro UAVs B. Connected
and autonomous cars -Wireless technologies for Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I) and Vehicle-
to-Vehicle (V2V) communications -Automotive surrounding sensing with GHz and THz
signals
TEXT/REFERENCE:
1. Wireless Communications: Principles and Practice, by Theodore S. Rappaport, Prentice
Hall.
2. Stallings, Wireless Communications & Networks, 2nd edition.
3. Molisch, Wireless Communications, 2005.
4. Wireless Networking Complete, by Pei Zheng et al., Morgan Kaufmann.
5. Wireless Communications, Andrea Goldsmith, Stanford University.

--- Page 71 ---
RF Circuits & Systems
RF Circuits & Systems L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction: Importance of RF and Microwave Concepts and Applications. Frequency
Spectrum, RF and Microwave. Circuit Design, Dimensions - RF Behavior of Passive
Components: High Frequency Resistors, High Frequency Capacitors, High Frequency
Inductors, General Introduction, Types of Transmission ines-Equivalent Circuit
representation.
Module-2
The Smith Chart: Introduction, Derivation of Smith Chart, Description of two types of smith
chart, Z-Y Smith chart, Distributed Circuit Applications, Lumped Element Circuit
Applications. SINGLE AND MULTIPORT NETWORKS: Basic Definitions, Interconnecting
Networks.
Module-3
Network Parameters: ABCD, Z, Y and Scattering Parameters, Conversion between network
parameters, Signal Flow Chart Modelling.
Module-4
Stability and Gain Considerations – RF Design RF Source, Transducer Power Gain,
Additional Power Relations-Stability Considerations: Stability Circles, Unconditional
Stability, and Stabilization Methods-Unilateral and Bilateral Design for Constant Gain- Noise
Figure Circles- Constant VSWR Circles.
Module-5
Rf Filters, Amplifiers and Oscillators. Design Generalization-Basic Resonator and Filter
Configurations: Low Pass, High Pass, Band Pass and Band Stop type Filters-Filter
Implementation using Module- Element and Kuroda's Identities Transformations.
Introduction, Types and Characteristics of Amplifiers, Small Signal Amplifiers, Design of
different types of amplifiers (NBA, HGA, MGA, LNA, MNA, BBA), Design of Large Signal
Amplifiers, Oscillator vs Amplifier design, Design procedure of Transistor oscillators.
TEXT/REFERENCE:
1. Mathew M. Radmanesh, “Radio Frequency & Microwave Electronics”, Pearson
Education Asia, Second Edition,
2. Reinhold Ludwig and Powel Bretchko,” RF Circuit Design – Theory and Applications”,
Pearson Education Asia, First Edition.
3. Ulrich L. Rohde and David P. New Kirk, “RF / Microwave Circuit Design”, John Wiley
& Sons USA, 2000.
4. DevendraK.Misra ,”Radio Frequency and Microwave Communication Circuits – Analysis
and Design “John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

--- Page 72 ---
Low Power VLSI Circuits
Low Power VLSI Circuits L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
MODULE- 1:
Low-Power Design Methodologies: an Overview: Why Low-Power? Basics of MOS circuits:
MOS Transistor structure and device modeling, MOS inverters characteristics, delay and
power estimation. Static and Dynamic CMOS circuits, Pass-transistor circuits.
MODULE- 2:
Sources of power dissipation: Dynamic Power Dissipation, Static Power Dissipation and
Degrees of Freedom, Parameters involved in power dissipation, switching activity and power
estimation techniques.
MODULE- 3:
Supply Voltage Scaling Approaches: Device feature size scaling, Multi-VDD
Circuits, Architectural level approaches, High-level transformations, Dynamic voltage scaling
and Power Management, Switched Capacitance Minimization Approaches: Hw/ Sw Tradeoff,
Bus Encoding, 2’s complement Vs Sign Magnitude Architectural optimization, Clock Gating,
low power logic styles like adiabatic logic circuit, Low power BICMOS circuit design.
MODULE- 4:
Short Channel effects, Leakage Power minimization Approaches such as VTCMOS,
MTCMOS, DTCMOS, Transistor stacking, Power Gating and others.
MODULE- 5:
Binary Decision Diagram representation of Boolean function, Low Power logic
synthesis and optimization. Low power physical design, Low power gate level design
and synthesis.
MODULE- 6:
Introduction of low power circuit testing and Battery-aware System design, Variation tolerant
design.
TEXT/REFERENCE:
1. K.Roy and S.C. Prasad , LOW POWER CMOS VLSI circuit design, Wiley,2000
2. DimitriosSoudris, ChirstianPignet, Costas Goutis, DESIGNING CMOS CIRCUITS FOR
LOW POWER, Kluwer, 2002
3. J.B. Kuo and J.H Lou, Low voltage CMOS VLSI Circuits,Wiley 1999.
4. A.P.Chandrakasan and R.W. Broadersen, Low power digital CMOS design, Kluwer,
1995.
5. Gary Yeap, Practical low power digital VLSI design, Kluwer, 1998.
6. Abdellatif Bellaouar, Mohamed.I. Elmasry, Low power digital VLSI design, S.Kluwer,
1995.
7. James B. Kuo, Shin – chia Lin, Low voltage SOI CMOS VLSI Devices and Circuits.
JohnWiley and sons, inc 2001

--- Page 73 ---
Internet of Things
Internet of Things L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1:
Introduction: IoT-introduction, Characteristics. Design of IoT-Physical and logical,
Building blocks of IoT, Communication models & APIs
Module-2:
Machine2Machine (M2M): Machine to Machine-Introduction, Difference between M2M and
IoT, Software define Network.
Module-3:
Energy efficiency, sustainable communication techniques
Module-4:
Challenges in IoT: Challenges in IoT: Design, localisation techniques, Development and
Security challenges.
Module-5:
Real life applications of IoT: Industry automation, Monitoring applications, Survelliance, and
Other IoT applications, pollution monitoring, agricultural monitoring, smart city application.
Module 6:
Hands-on IoT: Introduction to various IoTtools,Application development using IoT tools,
Introduction to different embedded system platform like rashberry pie, adrinoetc, sensor
based application with embedded system platform.
Module 7:
IoT and Python: Introduction to Python, Implementing IoT concepts with python.
TEXT/REFERENCE:
1. Vijay Madisetti, ArshdeepBahga, “Internet of Things: A Hands-On Approach”
2. WaltenegusDargie,ChristianPoellabauer, "Fundamentals of Wireless Sensor
Networks: Theory and Practice".

--- Page 74 ---
Industrial Electronics
Industrial Electronics L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1
Thyristors : Thyristor family, Two transistor analogy of SCR, construction, Turn on and Turn
Off characteristics, specifications and parameters, Turn On methods, S.C.R. firing and
synchronizing circuits, U.J.T. related firing circuits, SCR Protection, Commutation circuits.
Module- 2
Phase Controlled Rectifier: Principle of Phase Control, Single-Phase Mid-Point Converter,
Bridge Converter, Full Converter, Semi converter, Dual converter.
Module- 3
DC to DC converters: Basic principle of chopper circuit, various chopper circuits and their
working, step up chopper, Line Regulators.
Module- 4
Inverters: Pulse width modulated Inverters, Single Phase Series and Parallel inverter, Force
Commutated Thyristor Inverters, Current Source Inverter, and Three Phase Bridge Inverter.
Module- 5
AC Voltage Controllers: Types, Single Phase Voltage Controller with RL Load, Sequence
Control of AC Voltage Controllers, Cycloconverters.
Module- 6
Industrial application of ultrasonic and its basic principle, optical devices, S.M.P.S., U.P.S.,
Advanced control of power electronic circuits using microprocessors, isolation and amplifier
circuits, synchronization circuits.
TEXT/REFERENCE:
1. Rehg, James, A., Sartori, Glenn. Industrial Electronics. 5th ed. Upper Saddle River:
Prentice Hall. 2006
2. Dubey, G.K., Power Semiconductor Controlled Drives, Prentice Hall inc. (1989).
3. Sen, P.C., Thyristor DC Drives, John Wiley and Sons (1981).
4. J.M.D. Murphy, F.G. Turnbull, Power Electronic Control of Ac Motors, Pergamon
(1990).
5. Paul, B., Industrial Electronic and Control, Prentice Hall of India Private Limited (2004).

--- Page 75 ---
Embedded System Design
Embedded System Design L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1:
Introduction to Embedded Systems: Introduction to embedded systems with examples,
classification, desirable features and history. General aspects of Embedded System hardware
MCU internals - Reset types, Timers, Stacks, Interrupts, DMA, Serial Communication,
interfacing ADC & DAC, keyboards, displays and touch screens, sensors and actuators with
micro-controller. Memory: SRAM, DRAM and Flash. Buses and protocols: Bus Arbitration,
On Board Buses- I2C and SPI, Off Board buses – USB,CAN, AMBA, Ethernet, Wi-Fi, Zigbee
and Bluetooth,
Module-2:
The ARM Processor: ARM processor fundamentals: Introduction to microprocessors and
microcontrollers, 8-bit and 16- bit, von Neumann and Harvard architectures, CISC and RISC
architectures, ARM versions. Arithmetic and logic instructions and programs. Branch, call,
and looping in ARM, Macros. ARM memory map, memory access, and stack. ARM pipeline
and CPU evolution. ARM instruction set: programming model, assembly language, Thumb
instruction set. Input/output mechanisms, isolated and memory mapped IO. interrupts and real
time operations, ARM interrupts vectors, priorities and latency. supervisor modes, exceptions,
traps, co-processors. Programming the peripherals of ARM using Assembly and C and
KeilMicrovision IDE.
Module-3:
Embedded controllers design using verilog HDL and FPGA: Finite state machine concepts,
Verilog HDL, design examples like – stepper motor controller, Traffic signal controller,
Vending machine controller, Elevator and Seat belt controller etc, Design implementation in
FPGA.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. A. N. Sloss, D. Symes, and C. Wright, "ARM system developer's guide: Designing and
optimizing system software", Elsevier, 2008.
2. M.A. Mazidi, S.Naimi, J.Mazidi, “ARM Assembly Langusge Programming and
Architecture”, Pearson.
3. Michael Barr, “Programming Embedded Systems in C and C++”, O'Really, 1999.
4. Kirk Zurell, “C Programming for Embedded Systems”, CMP Books, 2000.
5. Samir Palnitkar“Verilog HDL: A Guide to Digital Design and Synthesis”, Pearson.

--- Page 76 ---
ELECTRONIC SYSTEM DESIGN
Electronic System Design L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Op amps: DC performance of op amps: Bias, offset and drift. AC Performance of operational
amplifiers: band width, slew rate and noise. Signal conditioning, Instrumentation & Isolation
amplifiers. A/D and D/A conversion: sampling and quantization, antialiasing and smoothening
filters, Data converters, interfacing with DSP blocks. Power supplies: Characteristics and
design of regulated power supply.
Module-2
Cabling of Electronic Systems: Capacitive coupling, effect of shield on capacitive coupling,
inductive coupling, effect of shield on inductive coupling, effect of shield on magnetic
coupling, magnetic coupling between shield and inner conductor, shielding to prevent
magnetic radiation, shielding a receptor against magnetic fields, coaxial cable versus shielded
twisted pair, ribbon cables.
Grounding of Electronic Systems: Safety grounds, signal grounds, single-point ground
systems, multipoint-point ground systems, hybrid grounds, functional ground layout, practical
low frequency grounding, hardware grounds, grounding of cable shields, ground loops, shield
grounding at high frequencies.
Module-3
Signal measurement in the presence of noise: synchronous detection, signal averaging. Noise
in electronic systems, design of low noise circuits. Balancing & Filtering in Electronic
Systems: Balancing, power line filtering, power supply decoupling, decoupling filters, high
frequency filtering, and system bandwidth. Protection Against Electrostatic Discharges (ESD):
Static generation, human body model, static discharge, ESD protection in equipment design,
software and ESD protection, ESD versus EMC. Interfacing of analog and digital systems.
PCB design and layout, System assembly considerations.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Electronics of measuring systems - practical implementation by: T. T. Lang ; Wiley, 1987.
2. Electronic Instrument Design, 1st edition; by: Kim R.Fowler ; Oxford University Press.
3. Applications of analog integrated circuits by: S. Soclof ; Prentice Hall1990.
4. Intuitive Analog circuit design by: Mark.TThompson ; Published by Elsevier.
5. Noise Reduction Techniques in Electronic Systems, 2nd edition; by: Henry W.Ott
;JohnWiley& Sons.
6. Digital Design Principles& Practices, 3rd edition by: John F. Wakerly ; Prentice Hall
International, Inc.
7. Operational Amplifiers and linear integrated circuits, 3rd edition by: Robert F. Coughlin ;
Prentice Hall International, Inc.
8. Printed Circuit Boards: Design and Technology by: W.C. Bosshart ; Tata McGraw Hill,
1983.

--- Page 77 ---
Computer Architecture
Computer Architecture L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1
Instruction Set Architecture (ISA): ISA Principles and Trade-offs, RISC and CISC, Instruction
Classes, Semantic Gap, Translation, MIPS and X86 ISA.
Module- 2
Micro architecture: Single Cycle and Multi Cycle Micro architecture, Control and Data path.
Module- 3
Pipelining: Pipelining basics, Ideal Pipeline, Pipeline Stalls, Data and Control Dependencies,
Resource Contention, Data Dependence and Control Dependence handling,
Module- 4
Branch Prediction: Misprediction penalty, BTB, Branch prediction techniques (Static and
Dynamic).
Module- 5
Out of Order Execution: OoO Execution basics, Tomasulo’s Algorithm.
Module- 6
Vector and Array Processors.
Module- 7
The Memory Hierarchy: Memory System, DRAM and SRAM, Cache Memories, Direct
mapped cache, Set associative cache, Fully associative cache, Cache replacement policies,
Cache Write Handling.
Module- 8
Virtual Addressing: Basic Mechanism, Paging, Page Fault, Address translation, Page
Replacement algorithms, Access Control, Privilege Levels.
Module- 9
Multiprocessors: Parallel Speed-up, Amdahl’s Law.
Module- 10
Interconnects: Topology, Routing, Flow Control.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Hennessy and Patterson, Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach, Elsevier.
2. Morris Mano, Computer System Architecture, Pearson.
3. Dally and Towels, Principal and Practices of Interconnection Networks, Elsevier