
--- Page 1 ---
US WelPreat eet sree

National Institute of Technology Agartala
BORJALA, JIRANTA, TRIPURA-799046
~O&%- Dated-74/05/2025

       

F.No.NITA.5/(20-Acad)/PhD Scholarship/2024-25/ 7 03

CIRCULAR

As per notification no. NITA.5/(7-Acad)/SENATE/2022/39/A-1646 dtd.

09/05/24, the scholars who have submitted the provisional thesis before completion of

 

viable period of 05 years can apply for continuation of MoE scholarship as “Research
Associate” for a period of 06 months from the date of submission of provisional thesis

but not exceeding 05 years from date of enrolment,

Such Ph.D scholars falling in the category may apply in the prescribed format
(annexed with this notice) to the authority, though their concerned department with

proper recommendation

This is issued with the approval of the competent authority.

JIB yor
Registrar A 5-25
NIT Agartala

Copy to:

P. S. to the Director, NITA, for kind information of the Director.

. The Dean (Academic), for kind information,

3. The Head of Academic Departments, for kind information and necessary
action.

4. DR (Academic), for information and necessary action.

5. DR (F&A), for information and necessary action.

6. System administrator, for uploading on the institute website.

Nie

10-6 5-26,

es =
Registrar CU, Cc
NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 2 ---
TS Waal GI SURAT
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

(Only for those scholars under Full-time with scholarship category who have submitted
provisional PhD thesis before 5 Years from their date of joining the PhD programme)

 

To
The Dean (Academic Affairs)
NIT Agartala
(through proper channel)

Subject: Application for Ph.D Scholarship after Submission of provisional Ph.D thesis.

Sir/Madam,

I enrolled in the Ph.D programme on in the Department of
and have submitted my PhD Provisional Thesis

(spiral bound) on (copy attached).

I would like to continue to work as ‘Research Associate’ in the Department of

and request to continue my PhD scholarship (MoE)
up to (mention date) (upto maximum of 6 months from the date of Ph.D
thesis submission or till 5 years from enrolment, whichever is earlier).

I hereby certify and give undertaking that:

1. I shall work to enhance research facilities/ laboratories, prepare project proposal
and other academic duties as and when assigned to me.

2. I have NOT joined any Employment/ Post-Doctoral Fellowship/ Internship, etc.
within or outside India after submission of my provisional Ph.D thesis. An
undertaking is submitted herewith

3. Iam NOT getting any financial remuneration or assistance from any other source.

4, I will be regularly coming and working in the Institute on all the working days for
further work as indicated in point 1 and recording my attendance in the department.

5. If] am found violating any of the points 1— 4, then the Institute will have right to
recover the scholarship amount paid to me during the time period after submission
of my provisional Ph.D thesis.

6. | am aware that non-adherence to above mentioned conditions, may debar me the
grant of the scholarship.

Full name and Signature of the PhD scholar (with date):
Enrolment No.:

Recommendation of the Thesis Supervisor(s):

(Signature and date)

Recommendation of the Head of Department/ Chairman DPPC:

(Signature and date)
