
--- Page 1 ---
lr Nr,. \i I '\ I (57-(rilN)/(.'lt/l() I
I
NA I t(lNr4l |\,;S I r Lt I l-. ()l ',l F.('ilhtol.ocy AciAR t'At_A
I-tARJAl_' A. .ilRA \ lA^'t Ril)LJRA (W)
l'}lN: 799 055.
CONStJL.T'ANCY PRO.IF.C'l S: RLJL.ES ANI) RF.CtJLATIONS
l.
lrod uction
I rr
'l'he Nl'l'. Agarlalir. considers consultarrcl,ivorl<s/projects to be inrpoltant
conlponents ol'its activities. Appropriate pro.iects provide a much needed service to the
industr'1,. This hclps in thc countr)"s industrial grorvth. and incre ase s the institutc's
irrvolvt:rnent ivith industr.v-.'Ihcy cnrich thc prof'essional expcricnce and knoivledge of thc
facultl'mcmbcrs and help thetn in thcir tcaching ancl rcscarch. The pr<liects providc a first
hand knou'lcdgc of tlrc cLrn'cl1t problcms of thc inclirsl;1'. rvlrich is vcry hclpful in titrning thc
curricula to industrl"s nccds. ilacrrlt.v rncrlbcrs gct an opportLrnitv to apply thcir iclcas tr;
practical sitr-ritions, StLrdcnts working on these pro.iects gtct praclical cxpcricnce. which lrclps
thcrn in tircir lirtLrrc carccrs. Finail1,. consultancr'pro.icc:ts l"rroviclc flnancial inccntivc: ttr
inciiviciuals. dcpartnrcnt:; antl tlrc IustitLrtc as a u'lrolc to condirct rcscarch. to sLrpplcrncnt tlic
InstitLrtc's {lnancial uLrcds iincJ tri plovitic se n'iucr to socictr, lrs a rvliolc.
) Pro.iccls I rtil iitl ion a ud Mlrt:rgcrncn l.
2,1. Consultancl, Pro.iects.
a) [:ac-h consultanc,v,, pro.iecl. n'ill have s Pling:ipal Consultant who will be
responsible tirr,
i) f cnnLrlatin!. tlrc proiect proposal wlrich rna-1 inclLrde (a) planning of lhe
u'orli ir) be clr,rrrc, (h) estirnating cost:; according to grridelines provided i;r a
latcr rrc{ion^ lnd(c) idcnlil,i ing ()ther consultarrls il'necessar'.v.
ii)
F.recrrliort ol'lrorii.
iii) llandlirrg all ccirnnrrrnicaiions rvitlr thc clients aller lhe projects has; been
ztc:r":cpl_ctl.
ir,) Writing ol interrncdiatc anrl final rcports accolding to thc prtr.icct grroposal.
v) Nlal'ing rect;urrncndations to thc Dcan ol Rcsr:ulclr & ConsLtltanoy
(DOlt(')if-tcati o1'rclatccl l-)cpartmcrrl rcgardirig. cxpcnclitLtre fionr thr-'lrlojcet
tirrrcis i'rrrcl tiistrursc:rrrcrrt of'fi,rnds to par-ticipant:; in llrc consrrltanc\,' prujcct.
b) Appointment of Principal Consultant: Inclustrial organizations Lrsually
approach thc Institute fbr consultancy rvork thror-rglr a firculty rncrrbcr or
zr
firnctionarl,' of'the insfitLrtc (i.c. l-lcad" Dcarr or Dircctur). Whcn a facr-rlt1'
rrcrnbcr is approachcd firr rvolk. hc riill bc thc Princripal (lonsultant. lf'he
cloes not rvish to be tlre Plincipal ConsLrltant or il'the proiect is releired 1o a
firnclionan, l'}rincipal ('onsultarrt rvould be identiliecl tluouglr appropriate
iiiscrrssiorrs and appoint.rnenl ri ill be rnaiie b,r tire l)ORC,
c) '[he projecl proposal prc;rared b1 the l)rirrcipal ConsLrllant rvili be foru'arded lcr
the client b-v l)ean. Research & (lonsr.rltanc)'.
d) ln exlrerrie ernergencies" a c()nsrrltar.)t rr){]l\'[ake up arr a:isignrnerrl rvith intitnaliott
to the DOItC and tlren seeli posl-lirclo approvll r.r'illrir: 7 (seren) tlal's ol-the assignment.
=1Bl---lt-€l-^+-{'
zq\I-,r
Registrar
ilational lnstitut€ of TechnologY

--- Page 2 ---
e) The lnstitirte nornrall-v requires the cost of the pioject to be deposited ir1'thc
client. in firll. befbre thc u'ork collrrenoes. Howcvcr. trascd orr needs of the client and
circuntstances. the lrrstitLrte tna,v'permit collrllencer)rent ot-wol'k n'ith paynrent to be ntacle
as per agreed upon rrilestones.
All palrrrents tl'r-rm clients n,ill be received b1 tlre institute and erpendituri.: ancl
disbLrrsernents nrade throLrgh normal lnstitute procedures.
f') Alter the initial deposit has been made by tlre client. [)cirn of'Research & Consultancy
Of llce vrill assign a.job rrurttber to the proiect and inlbrnr the sanre to the clierrt, Principal
'l'lris
Consultant and the Ileacl ol'tire concerneii tr)epartrnent. completes the process o1'
initiation of a consultancy;rroiect.'l'he above.job nrrmber rnust be quoted in all subsecluent
corresponclence.
The project frle rvill be closed with the submission of'tlie final prcrject repofi and
disbursement of fces to consultants and othcrs.
7)
Sptinsored Projects
I Each Sponsoled Proiect w'ill have a Principal investigator who will be
responsiblc fbr:
i) Formtrlatingt thc pro.jcct ploposai. rvhich rna;' includc (a) ptanning of'tlrc
worli to be done. (b) estimating costs accorcling to qlridclincs proviclcd in section 3.2, and
(c) idcntify'ing othcr consultants if nece ssarv
ii)
[:.xeculicln 0l'worli.
iii) llandling all comtttrrnicalions with the clierrts afler Ihe pro jects has beerr
accelrted.
iu)
Writirrg of inl.et'rtrediitle and linal repoi'ts aecording lo the pro.ject proposal.
v ) Making rect.,trtuenclations to llre l)ean of' Research & Consuitanc;,
(DORC) regarcling expenditure fronr the pro"iect li.rnds.
2.
Appointmenl of Principal lnvcsligator: Sponsorecl [)ro.jects are usually based on a
proposul wrilterr by a faculty nrernber, ln sLrch cases,'l'lre f'}rincipal lnvestigator will lie
idcntilled in llre proiect propr.rsal. In case tlre lrrstitr.rte is arvarded a sponsored proiecl.
clirectly. or a propos;rl is sLibmittcd at thc lnstitutc ici.'r.:1. tlrc Principal lnvcstigator woLrld [;c
idcntitlccl thlougli ap1;ropriatc discussions and appointmcnt rvill bc rladc b-l thc DOIfC.
l" 'T'he prcrject plrposal prcparcd by the Principai lnvcstigator"rvill he ftrrwaldccl to thc
clicnt hy the Dean of'Researcl, & Consultancl'.
1.
In extretnc clncrgttrcics. a eorrstrltant rraY tal<c Lrp an assignrncnt r.r,ith intirnation
to thc DOIl(l and tlrcn sce ii apploval.
5. Thc fnstitLitc norrnallv reeluircs thc cosl ol'thc projcct to be dcpositcd bi,' thc
sponsoring agency, in f Lrll, belbre the r,vurl' conrrTleucris. I lOr'r'ever, basecl on needs 0i' [he
agency and circunrslances" tlre lrrstitute ma1'permit colllrl)encernent cf worl< wilh paytneut
to be rrrade as per agreed upon nrileslones.
.=Ea3r.-^rt:cF+,
\J
'L4-4\*t\
#-
:- "-^
Iteclstrar
urtr on arinstilute ot ntill.""t"nt

--- Page 3 ---
All paymcnts fiom sponsoring agencies rvill bc rcccived by the institute and
expenditure and disbiLrsernents made through normal Institrite procedures.
6. Afier the project has been awarded. the l)earr (Research & Consultancv)
Office will assign a.iob nurrrber to the proiecl and inlbrLrr the same Lo the sponsoring agency.
'lhis
Prirrcipal lnvestigator and the f lead of the concerned l)epartment. completes the
process ol initiatiorr ol a consultancy proiect. l'he above .job nLrnrber nrust be qLrotecl in all
subseq uenl corresporrrlence.
'1'he project file will be closed rvith the submission of'the llnal proiect report.
3.
Rules and Regulations.
3.1
Budgel Heads
There r,vill be a separate lnstitr"tte account tbr project tirncls. All fLrnds received
for pro.iects rvill be deposited in this account. Bank account of this firncl ivill be operated hy'
Dean (R&O) and the Registrar.
Bcsides tlic funcis for ongoing pro.jects. this accorint will be used to maintain
nurlbcr funds of thc lnstitLrte as clcscribccJ bclow:
L Insli{ute l)evelopment Fund (lDF): Overheacls ll'orrr tlie proiects anil the portions
o{-payment nrade to consultants etc. will tre r:redited to this firncl as per details given
below.'l'he r.rtilization of this fund r,r,ill be decided by the Corrrmitlee ctrnrprising ol-
the Direcl.or. t)ORC & Il.O.t).s. llank accoirnt ril'tlris lirnd u'ill be operated b;, lire
I)irector ancl the t)ean (R&(l),
2. l)cpartrnent Promotion Fund (DPF): F.ach departrnent ancl center of'the lnstitute uill
have a separa{e l'und in which its earnings nral, be deposited. lhis irrclrldes portions
olconsLrltarrcy lbes and costs charge to projects lbr use of'departrnent facilities. lhis
l'und rvill be operated by the Flead of'the Departrrent. FJarrli accorirlt of'this firnd rvill
be operated by tlre FIead oI the Departenl and C'oordirrator o1' the respeclive
f)epartmcnt.
3 Prof'essional Development Fund (PDIr): [vcry facrrlt',' (and class A tcchnical
stall) memtrer rnav have a scparate fund. A fircultl'nray'dcposit his/hcr consultancy
fbcs dirc. to tlris firnd. Othcr carnings. sucir as frlur slrurt-tcnn courscs" lray also bc
clcpositcd in this accctunt. Thc facLrlti, tlcmbcr will opcrittc tliis titnd (u,ith approval
fiour DORO) and thc follorving cxpe rrditLrrcs will bc pcrurittcd:
"fravcl
ot' sclf or other cmplor-ecs fbr prclf,-r'ssional vlork. Clonsultancv
pro.iect trave I rule s lvill apply.
Purclrasc of books..foLtrnals. and rrcrrherslrip fccs of pnrf.:ssional socictics.
l)u rchase o1- consunrables lbr pro I t--ssi orral ri'ol'l'.
Cost ol' photocopying, binding etc.
of'
Cost of telephone (deposited,charge, re nlals and call charges phones
at the office or resiclences)
Hiring nranpower.
I)urchase ol'ecluipmerrt (tlrese uill be propcrtv ol'NlI Agarlala, but nia'n
be used exclrrsivel_\, lbr ihe nrember's prolbssional wcir:li) antJ
nrai nl.enance charges.
d*rl-4tF+6K.
2^-f:5-tl "
,.rf!..a a
**,1:,9-{:,n,

--- Page 4 ---
' Hiling of'service such as taxis. catercrs etc. neecied fbr prof-essional rvorli.
.
Any' othcr cxpenses permitted bv DORC-.
' tlanl< accorlttt ol' this tin,d u ill be operated by the respective
(lonsultaut.
l-he lbllowing fiurds are not l)ean o1'Research & Consultancy hlnds, but funds o1'' the /
Irrstitr.rte into vvhich trarrsltrs will be rnade fronr consultancl, proiects as per details given
belou,:
,1.
StafT\\'elfale l"uncl: A 1rrnd o1'the lrrslitr.rte. to be Lrtilizecl hr tlre Chairnran, StalT
Wellbre Comrniltee, or a persor.r nominated by the Director. llanl< accor.url ol'this
firnd will be operated by the Director and the Registrar.
5.
Students Welfare Fund: A fund of thc lnstitute. to be utiiized b1' the Dean of
Students'Affairs. or a person nominated by the Dircctor" Bank account of this
fund will be operated b1'the Dircctor and thc Dean (SA).
3.2
Costs.
Cost of a project will consist cif- Overhcads, ActLral cxpenses- for consultancl,
pro-jects. payments to employees, external consultants and students.
3,2.1
Institute Overhead charges
For Consultatrcy Prcrjects. tcn perccnt U0%) of' thc totaI pt'o.jcct cost and tbr'
Sponsored Pro"jects. f.ifteen percent (159/o) of'the total prciject rvill be cLrarged as InstitLrte
overhead and paicl to tlre Institlrte Development Frrrril (tt)l-:). For sponsor"ed pro"jects, i1'the
sponsoring agency is a Cjovt. agency, t.hen its norrns ftrr overheacls will be lbllor.ved.
3.2.2.
Acfual Expenses.
'l'he
Actrralexpenses will cover the lollou,irig costs related to the pro.iecl:
1) I)ernranent ecluipnrent to be procurecl.
?-) C'onsurrabie Lnaterials to be used.
3) Compulational charge (at cornrnercial rates)
4) Charges to be paid lor the Lrse ol'specilrc ecpripment in the departmenl or
central facilities.
5) Contingency expenses: These will cover
a)
Clost of sr-rpplies, stationary, reploduction.
b)
Costof-books..iournals. mcmbership feesof'prof-cssional
soc letles.
c)
Pal,rnent for typing and other ofllcc r,lork to or-rtsidc agencies.
d)
Postage and telephone (including phone dcposit charge. re ntals
and call charges of phoncs at tlre ofllce ur rcsidcrrccs)"
e)
E,ntertainment expenscs (this is to covcr costs incurrcd iit
nrceting clicnts in the Institutc or during tours).
t)
Costs chargecl b,r, a departrneni lor lacilities provicled to the
prolect (such as lalge apror.rnts ol'photocopy,,ine, use ol
cornputalional and printirrg l-acilities. etc).
6)'l'raveling expenses
c:trE!i-aL{---4-kt+('
\
24t-.-a- 1l
:
Reglstrar
ilrtlonal hstitufeil -Tectlnolo g'y

--- Page 5 ---
a) Travel may bc undefiaken fbr site. meetings outside the in st itute .
parlicipation in Conf'erences/Workshops/Seminars in India and
abroad.
b) R.egular TA/DA rules of the institLrte u'ill be relaxed in the
following manner [<rr travel within lndia, For travel abroad. lnstitute
rurles will apply:
i) Rates may be fi xed betweerr thc- sponsor ancl the
consultants when the proposal is macle. and these need not be
as per lnslil.ute ruies.
ii) Where no rates are frxed bcfbrchancl.
ii) No restrictions will be madc on modc of travel due to
i
eligibility, maximum of'twice the daily gross salary at the
ceiling of the scale of the concerned employee (gross excludes
HRA).will be paid.
of'
vi) Actual taxi/auto charscs incurrcd. including hiring taxis
on an lroLrrll' basis nilI bc allor,ved Wlrcrc no cash lrlcrnos
can bc obtaincd. signaturc of thc drivcr on a prcscribed lilnn
will be obtaincd.
c) F-or consultancy prolects" l'or eacLr site visit a l'ee carr be charged
at a rate specitied in the project proposal subject to a maxitnunt
specified frorn tirre to tirne by the DORCI.
7)
Salaries ol'project employ'ees,
3.2.3 Payment to employeeso external and students in (,'onsultancy Ilrojects;
Payrnent can be done otte o1'the fbllorving:
.
Corrsultation lees to f'acr.rltv and technical staf'l',
.
Hclnclrarium to students.
.
Honorarium to ovefiimc to other stafl.s.
.
Payment to students.
.
Fees to external consultants.
Anv pay'ment clue will be divided into two pafis: Seventy percent (70%) of the arnount will
be paicl to the person concerned and thc remaining thirty pcrcent (30%) rvill be credited in
the fbllowing manner:
.
Forly $0%) of'thc amoLrnt to thc Institirtc Dn'ckrprncnt Irund (lDIr)
.
Fifi1, (50%) to the concerncd clcpartrncnts. Promotional Iruncl (l)Pt).
In case Lnore individual department ltrnds will be specified when lhe
pro.iect is initiated.
.
50 to the stall'welfare lirnd.
.
5ol, to the student wel{are fi.rnd.
As mentionecJ in section 3.1 above, a facLrlti, nrember or a class a technicitl staf'l ntember
rnay deposit parl or all of the payment due into his/lrer ['rol'essional l)eveloprnent Fund
(PDF-).
Ef5;E-L-4tt4d
t^'*N'
F ---a\
m^^Iclrgl,
---'-

--- Page 6 ---
3.3 Tesling Fees in C-'onsullancy Projects.
'T'he Institr.rte will undertalie routine and non- routine testing "jobs provided lbcilities are
available and such testing does not interfure with any teaching or Research &
consultancv work at standarcl rates or at the rates estimateci by the Faculty who will
supervise the testing worli.'['he tesling lees charged lioLn the clierrls rvill be divided into
three parts. First 40% will be deposited irr the concenrerl departntents [)romotion Funcl
(DPF). second 10 % will be deposited in the lnslitLrle Developrrrent FLrnd (lt)F) and thild
50% rvill be distriburted to Facultv and Staff who will execLrte the work.
Accounting procedure at a glance lbr testing and consultanc.v works,
Sl. No. Items Anlogqlt (Rs.) lqE x q l q---l
i::1-:::::
I. t&at amou'rt X xXt- J
,--
Service charges x X - -Y Yr l
1: ActLral expeltscs Z
lut{lt Qsyqlq _ p - rgntlqqlLQl) o r(t-V-zj- 0e0(x-Y-z) l
q1[Gf_2-
DPF 0..50(x-Y-z) 1
Paynrent to F'aculty, fbcirlty, Stall, 4.45 (X-Y -7,) crrxix v z.r I
I
str.rclcnts & extcrnal consu ltants ol
I
DepartLnental / lnstitule olllce stal'l'
3.4
External C'onsultants in Consultancy Projects.
Tltc services of external consultants ma)'bc Lrtilizccl to a lirnitcd cxtent in orclcr
to providc c,ornprchcnsivc scrvices to clients. Sirch cxtsrnal carrdidatcs r,vill bc cntitlcd to a
Itunp surn honorariurr/ fccs. Disburserlcnt norms arc dctaiicd irr scction 3.2.3 abovc. Thc
honoraria paiablc to extcrnal consultants mely uot crcccd.{0% of'thc total consultancy f-cc.
3.s Accounling Procedure at a glance fcrr Consullancy Projecls.
An example below illustrates the accor.rnting procedLrre fbr a consultancy pro.jcct:
Sl.No. llgnl Arnounl (Rs.) llalance (Rs.)
'l of
otal the X X
l
2. Service Charges Y 1X-
2 lnstitute Overlread 1ll)f) tov,ililx Vi q.i1{ tr
a ,) A_c1rr3 _E rperlsqs 7,
f
4 Sharc to IrrstitLrte Funds 3 0o/o ctf' { 0.9(X-Y)-Z ) -S :
P;r;;;i
kr Faculty. staff. 0.05(h-y-z)
arrcl
stuclcnts e rte rnal
consultants
ilptrtr;e ;iaiiin ititute 5o/o ttf ( {0.9(X-Y-Zl
Ol'fice statf 0.05 {(0.9(x Y -1)\l
DistribLttiorr of'Share to Institutc Funds
-.ar-aF*t€uqrz
21-cS-{
I
Regrsfrar
r-^.i.,,ra Ta.hnal..t(lv
^t

--- Page 7 ---
Total Arrr I o b un F t to Jn - s - ti _ tut . c - F untls I S
sh";; i., a4o"/".'is,..tl.+s
- -l
Share to I)Pt" soz or's o.5s
_
I1!"'oI" Lt,.s!4q1{U"Lfr9_$!q
_l_
Payment to Faculty" stafl. studcnts and cxternal ClotrsLtltants.
itlcrns
SLi\o.
i;\rrrotrnl
I pay
i Total ArnoLrnt to i P
'J'ransler to PI)F of Principal P-A
C'onsu ltant
1 Paynrerr( to tei-lrnicll sta[f
i-)
l)a1 ntertl to strrdertts
5 Payment to External Consultant
6 Pa1lrp1qqJq9y!!) P-A-F]-C-t)
3.6 l{iring Norms
Open selec:tion will be helci ftrr all project;losts ol-cluralion tttore than one and a
hall'(1,5) yr.ars. Otheru,ise there rvill lre an intenral circular nitirirr lhe lrrslilute. Il'suitable
candidates arc not available. tlten operr selcclion uill he nutle. ln special siluations. ittt tltt:
re corllrrencl4ti()ns ot'the l'rincipal C.orrsr.rltanti lnvcstigator'. short-tcrttt .ioi: c.rtttrae ts ltrr ttp {i.r
(r rnonths rrra_i, be given r,vith thc appror,al ol'lhe llean ol'Researclr & Consultancy (l)OR(')
All pro.ject appoirrtrrrenls rviil be conlractual ;rnd lhe basis ol- consolidaii,rri
monthly compensati0n.
Autornatic transfer of contractLral appointrncnt uf'a pro.fcct staff will bc fbr thc
duration of tlie project or thrce ycars u'hichcver is lcss.
'fhc total pcriod o1'contractuaI cmployntcttt rvith [)ciui o1' ,{dministration ofllcc
in two or morc prrrjects in ttocasc shallcxccccl flvc ycars.
A plt>icct eurployce shall crccutc u corrtrnet aLlrecnrcnt ()11 lt()11 .iLrdicial stanrJt
papcl ol'valuc Rs"l0/- with thc DOR('at thc tirnc of'joining rvith thc cxplicit provision that
contract rnay'bc tcrrninatcd by eithcr siclc by giving ctnc trotttlt's ttttticc or ollc Inonth's
conscilidated conrpensation in lieu of'the notice.
Selection shall nonrally be ruade as per tlre gtridelines provided b;'the
sporrsoring altency, aniJ as per lnstitule recluiretnen(s, ancl rvith the approval ol'the DORC.
All appointrncrrl letter's slrall tlc issued trndcl sisrrattrre o1- l)eputy Registlar'/
Asstt. Registrar (Oi1ice o1'the DORC).
jLB,L-*tts-PVd^
'
^ -ea=+-')>l
-
- ReElsrraia
lilrtion6l lnstitute of Technology
,qgartalS, TriPur*.

--- Page 8 ---
The Principal Consultant/ lnvestigator shall considcr prcvailing compcnsatiou
packages. general qLralificatiorrs and expcriencc of'staff while plepaling ploject proposals.
'I'he
Selection Committee tbr the recrlritnrent olPro-iect stalTfor each project will
be corrstituted by the l)ORC as lbllou,s.
i)
DORC or his norrinee - Clhairman
ii)
Principal consultant / investigator (t Ctl) - Mentber
iii)
HOD/llOC o1'the concerned deprt./
Center to which the PCll belongs - Menrber
iv)
An expert on the subject (to be
reconrnrended by the [)eptt./center) - Member
v)
An cxpert to be nonrinatcd by'thc DOlL('
if the PCI is the HOlliH(Xl. -Mcmhcr
l1'the DORC is not thc chairman of tlre sclcction crimmittcc. its recornmendation
shall bc suhtlitted to thc DORC fbr consider"atiou arrd apploval. Thc DORC shall have the
power to flx" on thc recotnmenciations of thc selcction comllittce. the rnonthly'-consolidated
compcnsatiou and thc clLrration of'thc contractLral appointmcnt.
On the completion of each yeerr of sen,ice during tlie contract period suitable
enhancement of rnonthly compensation rnay bc considcred by the DORC on thc
recornmendalions ol'the PCI and the l{OD/llOC ol-the congerned Deptt./ center.
'l'he pro.ject employees shall be enlitiecj 1o IIRA. if accornrrodation ol' the
ciimptts is tto[ rnade available to thenr. l-.xpentliture lowards subsidizerj in carrpus
acccltnnrodation/ llRA and rnedical facilities shall be charged to the salar), head ol'the
respective proiect.
All pro"iects stalTshall worli. fbr the pro.ject in which he is employed, onlS,unlcss
requesled olherrvise by the PClls concelrred ancl agreed to by the DORC.
P(lls shall be thc sanctioning and controlling aLrthority fbr all types of lcavcs
with respcct to contractLral plojcct stafl.
Conduct Rules: Prcrject cnrploycc shall
.
Follow qeneral code of conduct as approved by the DORC.
' Mairttain socrccy of'thc rcscarch findings/ tcchnical infirrrnation and shall not
get involvcd in unauthorizcd cotnuunication of' any offlcial document or
infirrmatiun.
DORC may, at his cJiscretion, constitute corrrmittee(s) to conducl
clisciplirrary proceedings, il-necessai'y against pro.iect ernployees. on the basis of
tire report suitable disciplinary action nray be invited and punishment will be
imposed by the DORC.
l)r'o-iect etnploy'ees rray'be allowed to regisl"er fcr the Ph. t). I)roglilnrle as per
instittrte n0rrlts i l' irn,v.
.adEft-€ tr--r:t--€Ye
\ r
213f3j-_Il
_
--T-4.
ReElstrar
Nrtiontl lnstitutt ol leehnologY
Agrrtala, TrlPure,

--- Page 9 ---
3.7 f,eave Provision
Faculty'nrembers going out olthe torvn on consultarrcv worl< will be treated to be
on cluty subiect to amaxinrrlni of 30 da1's peryear. and sLrbiect to a nrarirrruur ol l0 working
days per regular sentester. Approval lor going out on duty on such worli will be approved by
the DORC,
4. Limitations
It is expected that only those consultancy projects and roLrting test willbe accepted
by the lnstitr"rte which provide challenges belitting prolessiorral competence of the lacult,v
members. Sufficient caution also needs to bc exercised to ensure that consultancy projects
do not interfere with the normal duties of facuity mernbers. T'hus thc time spent by a
faculty/staff rnember on consultation work shoLrld be lirnited. on an average to one day a
week.
5.
Consultancv Comrnitlee
To rnonitor the consultanc\, r.l'urks a Consultancr,Clomrnittce is as firllou,s :
i) Consultancy)
Dean (Research & - (-l'hairrnan
ii) Assoc, Dean (Research & Consultancy) - Menrber-Secretary
iii) HOD
All - Member
6.
Interpretation of Rules
Wherever difflcrrlties arise in interpreting rules or relaxations and changed are
required lor smooth lunctioning ol consultancy works, the Consultancy ComrnitLee and
Director will be the cornpetent authority lcrr approval on behalf of the Floard olCovernors.
ttccl"o-f-{
-t<BLo
Regi-srrar z_4$3_r1
,
Nationai Institirte of'Tcchnologv Agar-tala
Agarrala- 7qq 055