
--- Page 1 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Department of Mathematics
Mathematics and computing Syllabus of
Integrated BS-MS Dual Degree
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA
TRIPURA

--- Page 2 ---
Proposed Integrated BS (4-year) / MS (5-year) programme for
Mathematics and computing
Semester-I
Teaching Scheme
Sr.
Name of the Subject Code Hours per Week credit
No.
L Tu. Pr.
1 Physics-I DSPH11B01 3 1 0 4
2 Chemistry-I DSCY21B01 3 1 0 4
3 Mathematics-I DSMA31B01 3 1 0 4
Language and
4 DSHU41B01 2 0 1 3
Technical Writing
5 Physics Lab-I DSPH11P01 0 0 3 2
6 Chemistry Lab-I DSCY21P01 0 0 3 2
Total Contact hrs per week = Total Credit = 19
Semester-II
Teaching Scheme
Sr.
Name of the Subject Code Hours per Week credit
No.
L Tu. Pr.
1 Physics-II DSPH12B02 3 1 0 4
2 Chemistry-II DSCY22B02 3 1 0 4
3 Mathematics-II DSMA32B02 3 1 0 4
Basic environmental
4 and atmospheric DSCY22B03 3 0 0 3
science
5 Physics Lab-II DSPH12P02 0 0 3 2
6 Chemistry Lab-II DSCY22P02 0 0 3 2
Total Contact hrs per week = Total Credit = 19

--- Page 3 ---
Semester-III
Teaching Scheme
Sr.
Name of the Subject Code Hours per Week credit
No.
L Tu. Pr.
Ordinary Differential
1 DSMA33B03 3 1 0 4
Equation
2 Abstract Algebra-1 DSMA33B04 3 1 0 4
3 Probality & Statistics DSMA33B05 3 1 0 4
4 Programming DSMA33B06 3 1 0 4
5 Programming Lab DSMA33P01 0 0 3 2
6 Statistics Lab DSMA33P02 0 0 3 2
Total Contact hrs per week Total Credit = 20
Semester-IV
Teaching Scheme
Sr.
Name of the Subject Code Hours per Week credit
No.
L Tu. Pr.
1 Real Analysis DSMA34B07 3 1 0 4
2 Linear Algebra DSMA34B08 3 1 0 4
Partial Differential
3 DSMA34B09 3 1 0 4
Equation
4 Numerical Analysis DSMA34B10 3 1 0 4
Data Structure &
5 DSMA34B11 3 1 0 4
Algrithm
Numerical Methods
6 DSMA34P03 0 0 3 2
lab
Total Contact hrs per week Total Credit = 22

--- Page 4 ---
Semester-V
Teaching Scheme
Sr.
Name of the Subject Code Hours per Week credit
No.
L Tu. Pr.
Linear Programing
1 DSMA35B12 3 1 0 4
and Game Theory
2 Statics & Dynamics DSMA35B13 3 1 0 4
Integral Transforms
3 DSMA35B14 3 1 0 4
& Applications
Fuzzy Set, Rough Set
4 DSMA35B15 3 1 0 4
and Applications
Lab Work on Data
5 Structure & DSMA35P04 0 0 3 2
Algorithm
Total Contact hrs per week Total Credit = 18
Semester-VI
Teaching Scheme
Sr.
Name of the Subject Code Hours per Week credit
No.
L Tu. Pr.
1 Complex Analysis DSMA36B16 3 1 0 4
Discreate
2 DSMA36B17 3 1 0 4
Mathematics
3 Stochastic Processes DSMA36B18 3 1 0 4
Objective Oriented
4 DSMA36B19 3 1 0 4
Programming
Number Theory &
5 DSMA36B20 3 1 0 4
Cryptology
Total Contact hrs per week Total Credit = 20

--- Page 5 ---
Semester-VII
Teaching Scheme
Sr.
Name of the Subject Code Hours per Week credit
No.
L Tu. Pr.
1 Measure Theory DSMA37B21 3 1 0 4
2 Topology DSMA37B22 3 1 0 4
3 Abstract Algebra-II DSMA37B23 3 1 0 4
Classical &
4 Continuum DSMA37B24 3 1 0 4
Mechanics
Formal Language and
5 DSMA37B25 3 1 0 4
Automata Theory
Total Contact hrs per week Total Credit = 20
Semester-VIII
Teaching Scheme
Sr.
Name of the Subject Code Hours per Week credit
No.
L Tu. Pr.
1 Functunal Analysis DSMA38B26 3 1 0 4
Tensor Calculus &
2 DSMA38B27 3 1 0 4
Riemanian Geometry
Differential
3 DSMA38B28 3 1 0 4
Geometry
4 Soft Computing DSMA38B29 3 1 0 4
Project Work /
5 DSMA38S01 0 0 0 4
Summer Internship
Departmental
6 DSMA38S02 0 0 0 2
Semeinar-I
Total Contact hrs per week Total Credit = 22

--- Page 6 ---
Semester-IX
Teaching Scheme
Sr.
Name of the Subject Code Hours per Week credit
No.
L Tu. Pr.
Intregral Equations &
1 DSMA39B30 3 1 0 4
Calculas of Variation
2 Elective-I DSMA39E01 3 1 0 4
3 Elective-II DSMA39E02 3 1 0 4
4 Research Project-I DSMA39S03 0 0 0 6
Departmental
5 DSMA39S04 0 0 0 2
Semeinar-II
Total Contact hrs per week = Total Credit = 20
Semester-X
Teaching Scheme
Sr.
Name of the Subject Code Hours per Week credit
No.
L Tu. Pr.
Elective-III
1 DSMA310E03 3 1 0 4
2 Elective-IV DSMA310E04 3 1 0 4
3 Research Project-II DSMA310S05 0 0 0 8
Departmental
4 DSMA310S06 0 0 0 2
Seminar-III
Comprehensive Viva-
5 DSMA310S07 0 0 0 2
Voce
Total Contact hrs per week = Total Credit = 20

--- Page 7 ---
COURSE STRUCTURE
ELECTIVE-I
1) OPERATION REASEARCH-I
2) BIOMATHEMATICS-I
3) FLUID MECHANICS-I
4) SOLID MECHANICS-I
ELECTIVE-III
1) OPERATION REASEARCH-II
2) BIOMATHEMATICS-II
3) FLUID MECHANICS-II
4) SOLID MECHANICS-II
ELECTIVE-II & IV
1) STOCHASTICS PROCESS
2) STATISTICAL INFERENCE
3) COMPUTATIONAL FLUID DYNAMICS & MAGNATO FLUID DYNAMICS
4) COMPUTER ORGANISATION AND ARCHITECTURE
5) NUMBER THEORY & CRYPTOGRAPHY
6) FINANCIAL MATHEMATICS
7) OPERATING SYSTEMS
8) COMPUTER NETWORKING
9) ALGEBRAIC TOPOLOGY
10) WAVELETS AND APPLICATION
11) LIE ALGEBRA
12) DATA MINING AND WARE HOUSING
13) OPERATOR THEORY
14) HISTORY OF MATHEMATICS
15) ADVANCED TOPOLOGY
16)DECISION THEORY & COMPUTATIONAL STATISTICS
17)THEORY OF OPERATIONS AND BANACH ALGEBRA

--- Page 8 ---
SEMESTER -I
PHYSICS-I
Mathematical Preliminary:
Vector Differentiation, Scalar and Vector Fields, Directional Derivatives, Vector Differential
Operator, Gradient, Divergence, Curl, Line, Surface & Volume integrals and their
applications, Green’s theorem.
Mechanics:
Newton’s laws of motion for a system of particles, Constraints, D’Alembert’s Principle,
Generalized Coordinates, Generalized velocity and momentum, Lagrangian formulation,
Hamiltonian formulation.
Physics of Waves:
Simple Harmonic Motion, superposition of two linear SHMs, Lissajous figures, Damped
Vibration:-differential equation and solution, critical damping, logarithmic decrement,
analogy with electrical circuit, Normal mode analysis (Matrix Inversion) Progressive waves,
Forced Vibration, Amplitude and Velocity Resonance, sharpness of resonance and quality
factor.
Time Varying Field and Maxwell’s Equation:
Laws of Electromagnetic Induction, Self and Mutual induction, Concept of Displacement
Current, Difference between Conduction Current and Displacement Current, Eddy Current,
Maxwell’s Equations, Derivation of Maxwell’s Equations, Propagation of Electromagnetic
Waves in Free Space and Conductors, Solution of propagation of Plane Electromagnetic
Wave in free space and conductors, Concept of Field Energy (Poynting Vector)
Optics: Interference, Diffraction, Polarization
Interference: Coherence (temporal and spatial), Fresnel’s Bi-prism, Interference of Light
due to division of amplitude (Newton’s Ring), colour of thin film.
Diffraction:
Types of Diffraction, Difference between Interference and Diffraction, Fraunhofer
Diffraction at a Single Slit and Double slit, Plane transmission diffraction grating spectra,
Comparison between Prism and Grating Spectra, Resolving Power of Microscope, Telescope
and other optical instruments and limit of resolution.
Polarization:
Plane of Vibration and Plane of Polarization, Classification of Polarized Light, Preferential
direction in a wave; polarized light; natural light; production of linearly polarized light;
Methods of Producing Plane polarized light: Brewster’s law and Malus Law, Nicol’s Prism:

--- Page 9 ---
polarizer and analyzer; Polaroid, Anisotropic crystal; calcite crystal; Huygens’ explanation of
double refraction; Huygens’ construction of wave fronts; experimental determination of
principal refractive indices; electromagnetic theory of double refraction; phase difference
between o – ray and e – ray; superposition of waves linearly polarized at right angles; types
of polarized light; effect of polarizer on transmission of polarized light; retarders or wave
plates; Birefringes, Babinet Compensator;.
Suggested Books
1. H. Georgi, Physics of Waves
2. Rana & Joag, Classical Mechanics, Tata McGraw-Hill Education, India.
3. Waves - Pain
4. D. J. Griffith, Introduction to Electrodynamics, PHI Pubs.
5. Hecht, Optics
6.A. Ghatak, Optics, Tata Mc Graw Hill
7. Feynman Lectures on Physics
8. Berkley Physics – Vol I & II
Chemistry-I
Atomic structure
Rutherford’s model for atom, Bohr’s model, Bohr’s orbit, radii, energy, ionization potential,
atomic spectra and atomic number. Hydrogen atom: Spectra, Balmer formula, Rydberg
formula, Bohr’s interpretation of atomic spectra, Bohr’s correspondence principle, Moseley’s
experiment, fine structure of spectra and Somerfield’s new energy states, Zemman effect:
magnetic quantum number, vector model of atom, quantum numbers, Pauli exclusion
principle, Hund’s rule for atomic spectra, Aufbau principle, coupling scheme and atomic
states in the vector model, qualitative description of s-, p-, and d-orbitals, electronic
configuration for many electron system. Nature of bonding: covalent and ionic bonds.
Periodic Table and Properties of Elements
Long periodic Table, extended Periodic Table: classification of elements: s-, p-, d-, and f-
block elements, post actinides and super actinides, important properties of elements and their
periodic trends: atomic and ionic radii, ionization potential, electron affinity and
electronegativity, different electronegativity scales, screening effect, effective nuclear charge,
Slater’s rules, inert pair effect, melting points; boiling points; diagonal relationship.

--- Page 10 ---
Basic organic chemistry
Different classes of organic molecules and their mechanistic classification: Ionic, radical and
pericyclic reactions; heterolytic bond cleavage and heterogenic bond formation, homolytic
bond cleavage and homogenic bond formation. Nomenclature IUPAC. Physical Effects,
Electronic Displacements: Inductive Effect, Electromeric Effect, Resonance and
Hyperconjugation. Nucleophiles and electrophiles. Reactive Intermediates: Carbocations,
Carbanions, free radicals, carbenes and arenes.
Gaseous and liquid states
Gaseous states: Gas laws, kinetic theory of gases, derivation of gas laws from kinetic theory.
Maxwell theory of velocity distribution. Mean free path. viscosity of gases. Real gases, Van
der waal’s equation of state, Virial coefficients and equation of state.
Liquid state: Physical properties of liquids and their measurements. Surface tension and
viscosity.
References
1. J. D. Lee, Concise Inorganic Chemistry, 4th Ed., ELBS, 1991.
2. G. L. Miessler, D. A. Tarr, Inorganic Chemistry, 3rd Edition, Pearson,
Delhi, india.
3. R. L. Dutta, Elementary Inorganic Chemistry, 5th Ed. The New Book
Stall, Calcutta.
4. R. Sarkar, General Chemistry Part-I and Part-II, New Central Book
Agency (P) Ltd.
5. A. K. Das, Fundamental Concepts of Inorganic Chemistry Part-I and
Part-II, CBS Publishers & Distributors, New Delhi.
6. J. H. Huheey, E. A. Keiter, R. L. Keiter, O. K. Medhi, Inorganic
Chemistry: Principle of structure and reactivity, 4th Ed., Pearson, New
Delhi.
7. Shriver & Atkins, Inorganic Chemistry, 4th Ed., Oxford University Press,
Delhi
8. T. W. Graham Solomon, C. B. Fryhle, Organic Chemistry, John-Wiley
and Sons.
9. J. March, Advanced Organic Chemistry: Reactions Mechanism and
Structure John-Wiley and Sons
10. R. T. Morrison and R. N Boyd, ‘Organic Chemistry’, Prentice Hall.
11. Peter Sykes, ‘A guide Book to Mechanism in Organic Chemistry,’
Longman.

--- Page 11 ---
12. D.A. McQuarrie and J.D. Simon, Physical Chemistry, Viva Books
13. Elements of Physical Chemistry by Peter Atkins & Julio De Paula, 5/E,
Oxford University Press, Indian Edition
14. P.W. Atkins, Physical Chemistry, 7th ed. Oxford University press 2006
MATHEMATICS-I
Theory of Equations:
Theory of equations: Polynomials with real coefficient, synthetic division,statement of
fundamental theorem of classical algebra. Surds and complex roots occur in pairs.
Statement of Descartes’ rule of sign and its applications. Relations between root and
coefficient, symmetric functions of roots. Transformation of equations. Standard form of
cubic and bi – quadratic equations. Cardan’s solution of cubic equations. Descartes’ and
Ferrari’s method of solving bi – quadratic equations.
Inequalities : Definitions and elementary properties, examples. Theorems on A. M., G.M and
H.M. Their generalization theorem of weighted mean and m-th power theorem. Statement of
Cauchy-Schwartz inequality, Weierstrass inequality and their applications.
Determinants:
Definition, properties, Minors, Co-factors, expansion of determinants: Laplace’s method,
examples. product of two determinants, adjoint and reciprocal determinants, Jacobi’s
theorem,symmetric and skew-symmetric determinants, their properties. Cramer’s rule,
consistency of equations, examples.
Matrix Theory:
Adjoint , Reciprocal,Symmetric and skew symmetric matrices, Hermitian and Skew-
Hermitian matrices, minor and cofactors, orthogonal and singular matrix, adjoint and inverse
of matrix up to 33 matrices, application of matrices to a system linear equations ( both
homogeneous and non-homogeneous ) with not more than three unknowns, theorem on
consistency of a system of linear equations.Rank of a matrix. Elementary
transformations.Linear independent of row and column matrices. Row rank and column rank
of two matrices. Equality of row rank , column rank and rank of a matrix. Finding rank of a
matrix by considering minor or sweep out process. Rank of sum and product of two matrices.
Rank (A+B)<RankA + RankB, Rank(AB) Min(RankA, RankB).Trace of a matrix.
Characteristics polynomial & characteristics equations, Eigen-values, eigen vectors and the
characteristic equation of matrix, Caley-Hamilton theorem and its use in finding inverse of
matrix, some basic theorems. Real quadratic forms, Index, Rank, Signature.Theorem of
consistency of a system of linear equations, Linear equations. Consistency of a system of
equations. Number of solutions of a non-homogeneous system. Homogeneous system of

--- Page 12 ---
equations, solution of linear equation with not more than three unknown by matrix method.
Solution of matrix equation, examples.
Theory of Complex Number
Definitions, properties. Geometrical representation of a complex number: Argand diagram.
Modulus and Amplitude. Properties of moduli and amplitudes of complex numbers.
Examples.
DeMoivre’s theorem and its applications. Examples.
Exponential, sine, cosine and logarithm of complex number. Direct and inverse circular
and hyperbolic functions. Expansion of trigonometry functions, Gregory’s series. Summation
of series.
Vector algebra:
Revision of Vector, Scalar and vector product of two vectors. Scalar and vector triple product.
Product of four vectors. Reciprocal vectors. Position vector, Simple applications to geometry.
Vector equations of straight line, plane and circle. Volume of a tetrahedron. Shortest
distance between skew lines. Applications to mechanics: work done, torque.
Vector Calculus:
Vector function, limit and continuity, derivative of vector, derivative of sums and product of
vector functions. Tangent vector to a curve at a point, Scalar and vector point function.
Gradient, Normal. Directional derivative. Examples. Divergence, Physical interpretation of
Divergence. Curl, Physical interpretation of Curl, Properties of gradient, divergence and curl.
Sum, difference, products, Second order differential operator. Laplacian operator.
References:
1. The theory of equations(Vol. I)- Burnside and Panton
2. Higher Algebra- Barnard and Child
3. Vector Analysis-Louis Brand
4. Vector Analysis- Barry Apain
5. S.Ponnusamy-Foundation of Complex Analysis;Narosa
6. Vector Analysis-Maity and Ghosh, New Central Book Agency.
7. Vector Analysis- Schaum’s series, Tata McGrawHill

--- Page 13 ---
PHYSICS LAB-I
[At least seven experiments are to be performed]
1. Determination of MH and M/H of a bar magnet.
2. To determine the Young’s Modulus of the material of a beam by bending
of beam method.
3. Determination of unknown resistance of a given wire the help of Carey-
Foster Bridge.
4. To determine the Dispersive power of the material of the prism, angle of
prism is supplied.
5. Determination of Rigidity Modulus of a wire using dynamic method.
6. Determination of surface tension of water by capillary tube.
7. Determination of Wavelength of light by Newton’s ring.
8. Study of polarization of light.
9. To determine the wavelength of Laser by diffraction grating method.
10. Verification of Stefan’s law.
11. To determine the Numerical aperture & bending coupling losses of an
Optical fiber by quick approximation method.
CHEMISTRY LAB-I
1. (a) Preparation of standard solution of oxalic acid and standardization of
NaOH solution and KMnO solution.
4
(b) Preparation and standardization of Mohr’s salt solution by KMnO4
solution.
(c) Preparation of standard K Cr O solution and standardization of
2 2 7
Mohr’s salt solution and sodium thiosulphate solution.
(d) Preparation and standardization of Na EDTA solution.
2
2. Analysis of water samples by BOD and COD.
3. Estimation of Iron in water.
4. Preparation of organic and inorganic compounds using green chemistry
principle
I. Benzilic acid, IV. Biodiesel.
II. Dibenzalpropanone, V. [Cu(NH ) ]SO .H 0
3 4 4 2
III. Acetanilide, VI. [Mn(acac) ]
3

--- Page 14 ---
References
1. Vogel’s Textbook of Quantitative Chemical Analysis, 5th Ed., ELBS with
Longman.
2. R. A. Day, A. L. Undrwood, Quantitative analysis 6th Ed., Prentice-Hall
of India (P.), Ltd., New Delhi
3. W.G. Palmer,Experimental Inorganic chemistry, Cambridge University
Press (1962
SEMESTER -II
PHYSICS-II
Introduction to Quantum Mechanics:
Particle properties of wave: Planck’s hypothesis, Wave properties of particle: De Broglie
wave as mater waves, Davison-Germer experiment, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle and
its application, Interpretation of wave function, Schrödinger equation (time dependent and
time independent), particle in a box, Eigen values and Eigen function.
Concepts of Solids:
Statistical distributions, M-B, B-E and F-D statistics (No Derivations) and their simple
applications, Planck’s radiation law, Degenerate Fermi Gas.
Crystalline and amorphous solids, crystal structure, Bravais Lattice, Packing Fraction,
Crystallographic planes and miller indices, Inter-planer spacing (cubic system only), Bragg’s
diffraction, Crystal structure analysis, Lattice Vibration, Electrons in a crystalline solid.
Plasma Physics:
Definition of plasma and collective behaviour, concept of temperature, quasineutrality and
Debye shielding, criteria for plasmas, plasma oscillations, Single particle motions in -
uniform and non-uniform electric and magnetic fields, time varying electric and magnetic
fields, Applications of Plasma.
Introduction to Laser and Optical Fiber:
Spontaneous and stimulated emission, Einstein’s A-B coefficient, meta-stable state,
population inversion, basic principle of laser (three and four level), optical cavity and
resonator, Ruby and He-Ne laser.
Propagation of light in fiber, step and graded index fiber, numerical aperture, attenuation in
optical fiber, introduction of optical window, application of laser and optical fiber.
Relativity:
Reference Frames, Lorentz Transformation, Postulates of Relativity, Relativistic Mass &
Mass-Energy Equivalence.

--- Page 15 ---
Suggested Books
1. Plasma Physics and Controlled Fusion, Francis F. Chen, Springer Pub.
2. Lasers, Fundamentals and Applications, K. Thyagrajan, A. Ghatak, Springer Pub.
3. K. Huang, Statistical Mechanics
4. D.C. Tayal, Nuclear Physics, 4th edition, Himalaya House, Bombay
5. Kittel, Introduction solid State Physics, Willy Eastern Limited
6. A.K.Ghatak and S.Lokanathan, Quantum Mechanics, Macmillan India Limited
7. B.K. Agarwal, Elements of Statistical Mechanics
8. Quantum Physics of Atoms, Molecules, Solids, Nuclei and Particles, R. Eisberg
and Resnick, Wiley India Pvt. Ltd.
Chemistry-II
Chemical Bonding and Structure-I
Introduction to chemical bonding , ionic compounds: lattice energy: calculation and
implications, solvation energy, Born-Haber cycle and its applications, Fajan’s rules and its
applications
Covalent compounds: sigma and pi-bonds, hybridization, Bent’s rule of hybridization,
resonance, dipole moment, Geometry: Qualitative description of VBT and MOT (diatomic
homo and heteronuclear molecules), VSEPR theory, hydrogen bonding, hydrogen bridge
bond, delta-bond, metal-metal bond.
Basic stereochemistry
Elements of symmetry: simple axis, plane of symmetry, center of symmetry, alternate axis of
symmetry, chirality, optical activity, specific rotation, optical purity. Configuration: Types of
isomerism. Geometrical and Optical isomerism; Enantiomerism, Diastereomerism and Meso
compounds). D and L; cis - trans nomenclature; Concept of chirality.
Chemical Kinetics and Chemical equilibrium:
Order and molecularity of a reactions, rate laws and rate equation for first order, second
order, and zeroth order reactions. Determination of order of reactions, Energy of activation .
Catalytic reactions: homogeneous and heterogeneous catalytic reaction. Enzyme catalyzed
and auto catalyzed reactions, Michelis-Menten equation. General Characteristics of catalytic
reactions.
The law of mass action, equilibrium constants, the reaction isotherms, the reaction isochore,
Le chatelier’s principle.
Coordination Chemistry-I
Addition compounds: double salts and complex salts; Werner’s theory; ligands and denticity,
classification of ligands, pi-acidic ligands, macrocyclic ligands, chelates, chelate effects,
chelation therapy, supercomplex, geometry, coordination number; IUPAC nomenclatures;
isomerism: structural and stereoisomerism: geometrical and optical, facial amd meridional
isomers, chirality,

--- Page 16 ---
Thermodynamics - I
Definitions of systems and surroundings: Thermodynamic systems: Open, Close, isolated,
state of a system;, state function; Variables: Intensive, Extensive properties.
Thermodynamic process: Cyclic, reversible, irreversible, isothermal, adiabatic, isochoric,
isobaric. Concept of heat, work, energy, internal energy. Concept of thermal equilibrium and
Zeroth law of thermodynamics, Graphical explanation of work done during expansion and
compression of an ideal gas.
First law of Thermodynamics. Concept of enthalpy and as a state function: Heat change at
constant volume and constant pressure, relation between C &C using ideal gas and van der
p v
Waals equations.
Second law of thermodynamics.Concept of entropy, Gibb’s free energy, Helmholtz’s free
energy.Carnot’s cycle.
References
1. J. D. Lee, Concise Inorganic Chemistry, 4th Ed., ELBS, 1991
2. G. L. Miessler, D. A. Tarr, Inorganic Chemistry, 3rd Edition, Pearson, Delhi, india.
3. R. L. Dutta, Elementary Inorganic Chemistry, 5th Ed. The New Book Stall, Calcutta.
4. R. Sarkar, General Chemistry Part-I and Part-II, New Central Book Agency (P) Ltd.
5. A. K. Das, Fundamental Concepts of Inorganic Chemistry Part-I and Part-II, CBS
Publishers & Distributors, New Delhi.
6. J. H. Huheey, E. A. Keiter, R. L. Keiter, O. K. Medhi, Inorganic Chemistry: Principle
of structure and reactivity, 4th Ed., Pearson, New Delhi.
7. Shriver & Atkins, Inorganic Chemistry, 4th Ed., Oxford University Press, Delhi
8. T. W. Graham Solomon, C. B. Fryhle, Organic Chemistry, John-Wiley and Sons
9. J. March, Advanced Organic Chemistry: Reactions Mechanism and Structure John-
Wiley and Sons.
10. Finar I. L., ‘Organic Chemistry’ volume 1, Longman, London.
11. E. L. Eliel, ‘Stereochemistry of carbon compounds,; Tata-McGraw Hill.
12. Peter Sykes, ‘ A guide Book to Mechanism in Organic Chemistry,’ Longman.
13. P.S.Kalsi, ‘Organic Reactions, Stereochemistry and Mechanism,’ New age International
Ltd.
14. D. Nasipuri, Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds, New age International
15. G.M. Barrow, ‘Physical Chemistry’ 5th ed. Tata Mc.Grow Hill, New Delhi, 1992
16. P.W Atkins, Physical Chemistry, 7th ed. Oxford University press 2006
17. G.W Castellan, ‘Physical Chemistry’ 4th ed. McGrow Hill 1999

--- Page 17 ---
MATHEMATICS-II
Calculus
Differential Calculus:
Revision of basic Calculus, Sequence and series: Limit of sequence. Convergent and non
convergent Cauchy sequence, Convergence of infinite series. Statement and use of different
tests for convergence of series of non-negative terms.
Functions of several variables -1
Limits and continuity (definition and examples only).
Partial derivative. Composite function. Implicit function. Total differentials, Statement of
Schwartz’s and Young’s theorem on commutative property of mixed derivative. Euler’s
theorem of homogeneous functions of two variables. Statement of Taylor’s theorem for
functions of two variables.
Functions of several variables-2:
Jacobian, maxima, minima, saddle points of functions of two points (examples only);
Application of partial differenciation, Jacobians.
Application :
Tangent normal sub tangent and sub normal. Length of tangent and normal. Angle between
radius vector and tangent. Length of arc and its derivative. Differential of are length in polar
form. Curvature. Radius of curvature. Cartesian and polar curve. Newtonian method to find
radius of curvature at the origin. Centre and circle of Curvature. Evolute, Envelopes. Curve
tracing,Rectilinear asymptote for Cartesian and polar curve,Concavity, Convexity, Singular
points. Nodes. Cusp, points of inflexion, simple problems on species of cusps of a curve
(Cartesian curves only). Familiarity with the figure of the following curves: Periodic curves
with suitable scaling, cycloid, catenary, lemniscape of Bernoulli, Astroid, Cardiode, Folium
of Descartes, equiangular spiral. Area enclosed by a curve, determination of C.G., moments
and products of inertia( Simple problems only).
Integral Calculus:
Definite integral as limit of the sum. Geometric interpretation of definite integral.
Fundamental theorem of integral calculus. Properties of definite integral. Evaluation of
definite integral.Definition of improper integrals, example. Definition and simple properties
of beta & Gamma functions & their uses (convergence and important relations being
assumed) Areas of Plane curves(Quadrature), Rectification of plane curves. Volume and
surface area of solid formed by revolution of plane curves and areas about x-axis and y-axis,
Working knowledge of double and triple integrals, change of order of integration,

--- Page 18 ---
Differentiability and integrability of an integral of a function of a parameter. Differentiability
under the sign of integration, statements of necessary theorems. Centroid. Centroid of arc,
plane area, volume and surface area of revolution.
References:
1. Advanced Calculus-David Widder(Prentice Hall)
2. 2. Differential and Integral Calculus(Vol-I and II)-Courant and John
Basic Environmental and Atmospheric Science
Introduction To Environmental Sciences
Introduction to the Environment. Acquisition, transformation and utilization of energy: the
geochemical, biogeochemical and hydrological cycles. Concept of ecosystem.
Biodiversity. Problems and issues in biodiversity and forestry. Conservation and utilization
of biodiversity. Global warming and climate change. Recent records of climate change.
Impact of climate change on Indian environment. Measures to cope with climate change.
Mineral and energy resources. Impact of mining and other human activities on the
environment.
Environmental impact assessment and environmental audit: an introduction. Environmental
policy matters and law.
Suggested readings:
1. Anjaneyulu. Y, 2004, Introduction to Environmental Science. B. S. Publications.
th
2. D. Daniel Chiras, 2001, Environmental Science, 6 Ed., Jones and Bartlett Publishers.
3. De, A. K., Environmental chemistry, 5th Ed., 2005, New Age International (P) Ltd.,
New Delhi.
4. Subramanian. V, 2002, A text book in Environmental Science, Narosa Publishing
House, New Delhi.
th
5. Wright. R.T, and Nebel. B. J, 2004, Environmental Science, 8 Ed. Prentice Hall
India Ltd.
Environmental Pollution And Health
Air pollution: Composition of pollutants and sources. Disease associated with their
Pollutants. Air quality monitoring, National and international standards for monitoring air
quality. Quality of indoor air and its effect on health. Ventilation: standards, methods and
health hazards. Analysis of gas effluents, SO , NO ,CO etc.
2 x 2
Water Pollution: Sources and types of water pollutants; Ground water and surface water
pollution;

--- Page 19 ---
Sampling and analysis and measurement of water; Water quality standards; Effects on aquatic
ecosystem, Heavy metal (Arsenic, Cadmium, Lead, Mercury, fluoride, nitrate) analysis with
respect to health significance. Disease related to these pollutants. Measurement of DO, BOD
and COD.
Soil Pollution: Introduction, Major routes of soil pollution. Some important pollutants in
soil. Diseases related to soil pollution.
Noise pollution: Sound wave ants its characteristics: Hearing of sound. Measurement of
noise level, Noise levels at different sources, Effects of noise on human health.
Industrial Pollution: Introduction, characterization of industrial wastes present in Effluents,
Types of industrial wastes in Effluents, Treatment and disposal of industrial Effluents.
Radiation Pollution: Introduction, Nature of radioactive Emission, Units for measurement
of radioactivity and radiation. Effects of radiation on Human Health. Radioactive Fallout.
Pollution from Agriculture – Pesticides and Fertilisers: General aspects and
classification. Major disasters from pesticides and herbicides, Fertilizers and environmental
hazards from fertilizers.
Pollution control in India: Government obligation, mechanism and legislation in the
context of public health.
Suggested readings:
1. Asim K. Das, Environmental Chemistry with Green Chemistry, Books and allied (P) Ltd.
2. Leslie collier, Balows Albert and Sussman Max, Topley and Wilson’s Microbiology and
Microbial infections. Oxford University Press.
rd
3. Murray J.F. and Nadel. J.A., 2000, Text book of respiratory medicine, 3 Edn., W.B.
Saunders & Co.
4. Park. J.E. and Park. K., 1994, Text book of preventive and social medicine, Banarsi Das
& Bhanot, Jabalpur.
Green Chemistry:
Introduction, Principle and Concepts of Green Chemistry [10 L]
What is green Chemistry? Need for green chemistry; inception and evolution of green
chemistry; twelve principles of green chemistry with their explanations and examples;
designing a green synthesis using these principles; green chemistry in day to day life.
Suggested Books and References:
1. Green Chemistry, theory and practice. Paul T. Anastas and John C. Warner.
2. Asim K. Das, Environmental Chemistry with Green Chemistry, Books and allied (P)
Ltd.
3. Organic Synthesis in Water, Paul A. Grieco Blackie.

--- Page 20 ---
PHYSICS LAB-II
Experiment 1: Determination of damping constant of the Pohl’s pendulum for
different eddy damping current. Estimation of the natural frequency of the Pohl’s
pendulum.
Experiment 2: Determination of the co-efficient of viscosity of a liquid from its
rate of flow through a capillary tube.
Experiment 3: To construct a one ohm coil.
Experiment 4: Determination of the frequency of a tuning fork by Melde’s
Apparatus.
Experiment 5: Determination of Acceleration due to Gravity (g) by a Kater’s
pendulum.
Experiment 6: Determination of moment of inertia of a body about an axis
passing through its centre of gravity and perpendicular to its length.
Experiment 7: Measuring unknown wavelength of a laser with a diffraction
grating.
CHEMISTRY LAB-II
1. To determine the viscosity of aqueous solution of ethanol/glycerol/amyl alcohol.
2. To determine the surface tension of a given solution of aqueous solutions of
NaCl/acetic acid.
3. Verification of Lambert-Beer’s law
4. To determine the specific reaction rate constant of the acid catalyzed hydrolysis of
methyl acetate/ethyl acetate at room temperature.
5. Determination of Fe(II), Fe(III), Cu(II), Ca( II), Mg(II),
Zn(II) and Cl– in their respective compounds volumetrically through redox, precipitation
and complexometric titrations.
6. Determination of hardness of water.
7. Determination of functional groups in organic conpounds.
References
1. Vogel’s Textbook of Qualitative Inorganic Analysis, 5th Ed., ELBS with
Longman.
2. W.G. Palmer, Experimental Inorganic chemistry, Cambridge University
Press (1962)
SEMESTER-III
Ordinary Differential Equation
Differential equation, Significance of ordinary differential equation. Geometrical and
physical consideration. ODE of first order and first degree. Statement of existence theorem.

--- Page 21 ---
Variable separation method. Homogeneous and exact differential equations. Condition of
exactness. Integrating factor. Rules of finding integrating factor.Non-exact differential
equations reducible to exact form. Exactness in second order, Linear differential equation and
equations reducible to the linear form. Bernoulli’s equation. First order higher degree
equations solvable for x, y, p. Clairaut’s form and singular solutions, Linear differential
equations with constant coefficients. Homogeneous and non-homogeneous linear ordinary
differential equations. Linear differential equations of higher order. Complementary function.
Method of Undetermined Coefficients. Symbolic operator D.
Second order linear equations with variable co-efficients. Reduction of order when one
solution of the homogeneous part is known. Complete solution, Method of variation of
parameter. Reduction to normal form, Change of independent variable, Transformation of the
equation by changing the dependent variables / the independent variable, Method of variation
of parameters. Ordinary simultaneous differentia equations with constant coefficients, Higher
order ordinary differential equations with variable coefficients reducible to known forms,
Wronskian, Normal form of the equation of the second order. Simple eigen value problems,
Application of ODE of first order and first degree. Orthogonal trajectories. Electric circuit.
Mechanical system. Applications of higher order linear differential equations. Simple
harmonic motion. Simple pendulum. Oscillation of Spring. Deflection of Beam, Ordinary and
regular point. Series solution of ordinary differential equations, Series solution of differential
equation
References:
1. Integral Calculus-Das and Mukherjee, U.N.Dhur and Sons
2. Integral Calculus-Maity and Ghosh, New Central Book Agency
Abstract Algebra-I
Groups, Subgroups, Centralizers, Normalizers, Stabilizers, Kernels, Cyclic groups,
Subgroups generated by a subset of a group, Quotient groups, Lagrange’s theorem,
Homomorphisms, Isomorphism theorems, Composition series, Solvable groups, Nilpotent
groups, Symmetric group, Alternating group, Group actions, Permutation representations,
Automorphisms, p-groups, The Sylow theorems, Simplicity of the Alternating group, Direct
products of groups, Fundamental theorem of finitely generated abelian groups, Groups of
small orders, Rings, Ring homomorphisms, Ideals, Ring of fractions, The Chinese remainder
theorem, Euclidean domains, Principal domains, Unique factorization domains, Matrix rings,
Polynomial rings, Irreducible Criteria, Eisenstein’s criterion.
Essential Reading:
1. D. S. Dummit & R. M. Footee, Abstract Algebra, Wiley, 2008
Supplementary Reading :
1. N. Herstien, Topics in Algebra, Wiley, 2008
2. J. J. Rotman, An Introduction to the Theory of Groups, Springer, 1999.
Probability & Statistics
Probability:
Frequency and Axiomatic definition of probability, Random Variable, Probability
distribution function, discrete and continuous random variable, probability mass function,
probability density function, Binomial, Poisson, Beta, Gama, Uniform and normal
distribution. Poisson process. Transformation of random variables, Transformation of one

--- Page 22 ---
dimensional random variable(simple applications), Two dimensional probability distributions,
discrete and continuous distribution in two dimensions, Uniform distribution and two
dimensional normal distribution. Conditional distribution. Transformation of random
variables in two dimensions, Mathematical expectation, mean, variance(simple problems),
moments, central moments, measures of location, dispersion, skewness and kurtosis, median,
mode, quartiles,Moment generating function, characteristic function, statement of their
uniqeness, Two dimensional expectation, covariance, correlation co-eficient, joint
characteristic function, multiplication rule for expectation, conditional expectation.
Regression curves, least squre regression lines and parabolas,Chi-squre and t-distribution and
their important properties. Tchebychev’s inequality,Convergence in probability, Bernoulli’s
limit theorem, Law of large numbers, Poisson’s approximation to binomial distribution and
normal approximation to binomial distribution. Statement of central limit theorem in case of
equal components.
Statistics:
Random sample, concept of sampling and various types of sampling, sample and population.
Collection, tabulation and graghical representation, grouping of data, sample characteristic
and their computation, sampling distribution of statistic, Estimates of population
characteristic or parameter, point estimation and interval, estimation, criterion of a good point
estimate, maximum likelihood estimate. Interval estimation of population proportion, interval
estimation of a Normal population parameters, estimate of population parameters with large
sample when distribution of
the population is unknown, Testing of Hypothesis, null hypothesis and alternative hypothesis.
Type one and type two error, testing of hypothesis for a population proportion and Normal
population parameters and large sample test for population with unknown distribution, Chi-
square test of goodness of fit.
References:
1. Ground Work of Mathematical Probability and Statistics-Amritabha Gupta, Academic Pub.
2. Mathematical Statistics-Gupta and Kapur-Sultan Chand.
3. Statistical Methods,Vill-I and II-N.G.Das
4. Linear Programming Problem- Chakroborty and Ghosh-U.N.Dhur and Sons
5. Operations Research-Kantiswarup et. al, Sultan Chand and Sons.
6. An Introduction to Linear Programming and Game theory-S.Vajda
7.B.R.Bhat – Modern Probability Theory
8. K.L.Chug – Elementary Probability Theory & Stochastic Processes
9. Hoel , Port and Stone – Introduction to Stochastic Processes
10. J.Lamperti-Stochastic Processes
11. S.K.Srinivasan and K.M.Mehta- Stochastic Processes
Programming
PROGRAMMING IN C : review of basic concepts of C-programming, Further Data Types,
Structures, Defining New Data Types, Unions, Coercion or Type-Casting, types, static,
pointers, pointer and functions, pointers and arrays, arrays of pointers, multidimensional,
arrays and pointers, Static Initialization of Pointer Arrays, Pointers and Structures, Common
Pointer Pitfalls, exercise,The C Preprocessor :#define, #undef, #include, #if -- Conditional
inclusion, Preprocessor Compiler Control, Other Preprocessor Commands. Input and Output

--- Page 23 ---
(I/O): stdio.h, Reporting Errors, perror( ), errno, exit( ), Streams, Predefined Streams,
Redirection, Basic I/O, Formatted I/O, Printf, scanf, Files, Reading and writing files, sprintf
and sscanf, Stream, status Enquiries, Low Level I/O, Exercises.
MATLAB 7 : Basic Features: Simple Math, The Matlab workspace about variables, complex
number, floating point arithmetic, Mathematical functions. Script M files: Use, Block
comments and code cells, startup and finish. Array and Array operations: Simple array, Array
addressing or indexing, Array construction, Array orientation, Scalar Array Mathematics,
array Manipulation, Array sorting, Sub array searching, Array size, Array and Memory
utilization, Multidimensional Array construction & its manipulation. Numeric data type:
Integer data type, floating point data types.
Cell Arrays and structures: Cell array creation, its manipulation, Retrieving cell array content,
comma separated list, cell functions, cell array of strings, structure creation, structure
manipulation, structure functions. Character string: String construction, string evaluation,
string functions, cell array of strings. Relational and logical operations: Relational and
logical operators, Relational and logical functions, Nans and empty, operator precedence.
Control flow: For loops, while loops, if else end construction, switch case construction, Try
catch blocks.
References:
1. V.Rajaraman, Computer Progmamming in C, Prentice Hall, India,1994
2. B.Kernighan and D.Ritchie: The C Programming Language Prentice Hall, India,1995
Programming Lab
Working with matrix: Generating matrix, Concatenation, Deleting rows and
columns. Symmetric matrix, matrix multiplication, Test the matrix for singularity,
magic matrix. Matrix analysis using function: norm, normest, rank, det, trace, null,
orth ,rref, subspace, inv, expm, logm, sqrtm, funm.
Array: Addition, Subtraction, Element-by-element multiplication, Element-by-
element division, Element-by-element left division, Element-by-element power.
Multidimensional Arrays, Cell Arrays, Characters and Text in array,
Graph Plotting: Plotting Process, Creating a Graph, Graph Components, Figure
Tools, Arranging Graphs Within a Figure, Choosing a Type of Graph to Plot, Editing
Plots, Plotting Two Variables with Plotting Tools, Changing the Appearance of Lines
and Markers, Adding More Data to the Graph, Changing the Type of Graph,
Modifying the Graph Data Source, Annotating Graphs for Presentation, Exporting the
Graph.
Using Basic Plotting Functions: Creating a Plot, Plotting Multiple Data Sets in One
Graph, Specifying Line Styles and Colors, Plotting Lines and Markers, Graphing
Imaginary and Complex Data, Adding Plots to an Existing Graph, Figure Windows,
Displaying Multiple Plots in One Figure, Controlling the Axes , Adding Axis Labels
and Titles, Saving Figures.
Programming: Conditional Control – if, else, switch, Loop Control – for, while,
continue, break, Error Control – try, catch, Program Termination – return.

--- Page 24 ---
Scripts and Functions: Scripts, Functions, Types of Functions, Global Variables,
Passing String Arguments to Functions, The eval Function, Function Handles,
Function Functions, Vectorization, Preallocation.
Data Analysis: (i) Preprocessing Data : Loading the Data, Missing Data, Outliers,
Smoothing and Filtering, (ii)Summarizing Data: Measures of Location, Measures of
Scale, Shape of a Distribution, (iii) Visualizing Data: 2-D Scatter Plots, 3-D Scatter
Plots, Scatter Plot Arrays, Exploring Data in Graphs, (iv) Modeling Data: Polynomial
Regression, General Linear Regression,
Linear Algebra: Systems of Linear Equations, Inverses and Determinants,
Factorizations, Powers and Exponentials, Eigenvalues, Singular Values.
Polynomials: Polynomial functions in the MATLAB® environment, Representing
Polynomials, Evaluating Polynomials, Roots , Derivatives, Convolution, Partial
Fraction Expansions, Polynomial Curve Fitting, Characteristic Polynomials.
Statistics Lab
Computational works are to be done on the following topics.
1. Calculation of A.M., G.M., H.M., median and mode
2. Calculation of quartiles, deciles and percentiles
3. Calculation of range, quartile deviation, mean deviation, standard deviation and root mean
square deviations
4. Calculation of central moments from raw moments, calculation of skewness and kurtosis
5. Calculation of raw moments from central moments, calculation of moments about one
point from moments about another point
6. Flitting of binomial distribution
7. Flitting of Poisson distribution
8. Flitting of normal distribution
9. Tasting of hypothesis based on normal distribution
10. Tests based on chi-square distribution
11. Tests based on t-distribution
12. Tests based on F-distribution
SEMESTER-IV
Real Analysis
The real number system : Elementary logic, The field axioms, the axiom of order,
geometric representation of real numbers.
Metric sets and limits : Metric sets, Interior points and boundary points of a set, open sets
and closed sets, limit point of a set, sequences, monotonic sequences, Cauchy sequences,
limit of a function.
Continuity and Differentiability: Continuous functions, uniform continuity, mean value
theorem for derivatives, the total differential, the directional derivative.
Integration : Step functions, upper and lower integral of a bounded function, integral of a
bounded function, interchange of limits, the fundamental theorem of differential and integral
calculus.
Essential Reading :
1. J.M. Howie, A First Course in Real Analysis, Springer, 2001

--- Page 25 ---
Linear Algebra
Vector spaces, Bases and dimensions, Change of bases and change of coordinates, Sums and
direct sums, Spanning sums and independence, The dimension of a vector space, The
complexification of a real vector space, Quotient spaces. Linear transformations, The kernel
and image of a linear transformation, The rank and nullity theorem, Change of bases for
linear transformations, Linear functionals, Representation of linear transformations by
matrices, Dual spaces, Second dual, Reflexive spaces, Invariant subspaces, Direct-sum
decomposition, Cyclic subspaces and Annihilators, The minimal polynomial, The rational
and Jordan canonical forms, Inner product spaces, Orthonormal bases, Gram-Schmidt process.
Adjoint operators, Normal, unitary, and self-adjoint operators, Spectral theorem for normal
operators.
Essential Reading:
1. K. Hoffman and R. Kunze, Linear Algebra, PHI, 1971
2. S. Roman, Advanced Linear Algebra, Springer, 2007
Partial Differential Equation
Origin of first order partial differential equations, Cauchy’s problem, Linear equations,
Integral surfaces passing through a given curve, Surfaces orthogonal to a given system of
surfaces, Nonlinear partial differential equations of the first-order, Cauchy’s method of
characteristics, Compatible systems of first-order equations, Charpit’s method, Special types
of first-order equations, Solutions satisfying given conditions, Jacobi’s method, Origin of
second order partial differential equations , Second and higher order equations in physics,
Linear partial differential equations with constant coefficients, Equations with variable
coefficients, Characteristic curves of second-order equations, Characteristics of equations in
three variables, Solution of linear hyperbolic equations, Separations of variables, Integral
transforms method, Nonlinear equations of second-order. Laplace’s equation: The occurrence
of Laplace’s equation in physics, Elementary solutions of Laplace’s equations, Family of
equipotential surfaces, Boundary value problem, Problems with axial symmetry, Kelvin
inversion theorems , theory of green's function for Laplace equation.
Essential Reading:
1. N. Sneddon: Elements of Partial Differential Equations, Dover, 2006
Numerical Analysis
Definition and sources of errors, Propagation of errors, Backward error analysis, Sensitivity
and conditioning, Stability and accuracy, Floating-point arithmetic and rounding errors.
Nonlinear equations, Bisection method, Newton's method and its variants, Fixed point
iterations, Convergence analysis. Newton's method for non-linear systems. Finite differences,
Polynomial interpolation, Hermite interpolation, Spline interpolation, B-splines. Numerical
integration, Trapezoidal and Simpson's rules, Newton-Cotes formula, Gaussian quadrature,
Richardson Extrapolation IVP: Taylor series method, Euler and modified Euler methods,
Runge-Kutta methods, Multistep methods, Predictor-Corrector method Accuracy and
stability, Finite Element method. Finite Difference Method

--- Page 26 ---
Essential Reading:
1. S. D. Conte and Carl de Boor, Elementary Numerical Analysis - An Algorithmic Approach,
3rd Edition, McGraw Hill, 1980.
Supplementary Reading:
1. K. E. Atkinson, Introduction to Numerical Analysis, 2nd Edition, John Wiley, 1989.
Data Structure & Algorithm
Data structure: Asymptotic notations- o, O, θ, Θ, ω, Ω and their properties. Arrays, stacks,
queues. Linked list. Trees. Binary trees. Evaluation of expression. Addition of polynomial
using linked list and other examples. M-way search tree. B-tree (concept only). Analysis of
algorithms.
Searching: Linear and binary and their analysis.
Sorting: Quick, heap and merge sorts and their analysis.
Algorithms design techniques: Divide-and-conquer method. Greedy method. Dynamics
programming technique. Branch-and-bound method. Examples.Representation of graph in a
computer. Graph searching. Binary tree traversals. Spanning tree. Shortest path problem. NP-
Completeness.
Numerical Methods Lab
Experiments to be handled using computer
1. Bisection Method
2. Method of false position and secant method
3. Newton-Raphson method
4. Method of successive approximation
5. Gaussian elimination method
6. Gauss-Seidel iterative method
7. Inversion of a matrix
8. Eigen values and eigen vectors
9. Lagrange’s interpolation
10. Newton’s forward and backward interpolation
11. Everette’s formula
12. Numerical differentiation
13. Trapezoidal rule of integration
14. Simpson’s one-third rule
15. Simpson’s three-eighth rule
16. Euler’s method
17. Improved Euler’s method
18. Runge-Kutta second and fourth order methods
19. Predictor-corrector methods
20. Taylor series method
21.Finite Element Problem
22. Finite Difference Problem

--- Page 27 ---
SEMESTER-V
Linear Programming and Game Theory
Linear Programming :
Lines and hyperplanes, convex sets, convex hull and their properties - Formulation of a
Linear Programming Problem - Theorems dealing with vertices of feasible regions and
optimality - Graphical solution - Simplex method ( including Big M method and two phase
method); infeasible and unbounded LPP's, alternate optima - Dual problem and duality
theorems - Dual simplex method and its application in post optimality analysis - Revised
simplex method - Sensitivity analysis - parametric programming .
Transportation problem: Introduction - existence of solution - degeneracy - MODI method
(including the theory) - Assignment problem - Hungarian method for solving assignment
problems - travelling salesman problem.
Theory of Games:
Introduction – Minimax (maximin) – Criterion and optimal strategy – Solution of games
with saddle points – Rectangular games without saddle points – 2 X 2 games – dominance
principle – m X 2 & 2 X n games –graphical method.
Essential Reading :
1. H.A.Taha, An Introduction to Operations Research , PHI
Supplementary Reading:
1. Kambo, Mathematical Progamming Techniques, East-West Publi., Delhi
2. Kanti Swarup et. al., Operations Research, Sultan Chand and Co.,
3. S.D.Sharma , Operations Research, Kedarnath.
4. J.K.Sharma, Operation Research, MacMilan.
5. Hiller and Libermann, Introduction to Operation Research, TMH.
6. Wayne L.Winston, Operation Research, Thomson BrooCole.
Statics and Dynamics
Statics:
Reduction of a system of coplanar forces. Stability of equilibrium, energy test of stability,
Principle of Virtual Work, Deduction of conditions of equilibrium of a particle under
coplanar forces from the principle of virtual work, converse of the principle of virtual work,
Common catenary and catenary of uniform strength. Forces in three dimension, Poinsot’s
central axis and its equation, wrenches.
Dynamics-I:
Simple Harmonic Motion, damped vibrations, forced vibration, damped forced oscillations,
elastic string, Hook’s law, Tangent and normal acceleration. Velocity and acceleration along
radial and transverse directions, Central orbits, central forces, motion of a particle under
central force. Differential equation in polar and pedal coordinates, velocity under central
force. Apse, apsidal distance and apsidal angle.
Dynamics-II:
Kepler’s laws of planetary motion, artificial satellites, Escape velocity, Geo stationary satelite
Disturbed orbits, Motion in resisting medium. Motion of particle of varying mass, Motion of
a particle in three dimensions. Accelerations in terms of different coordinates, Moment

--- Page 28 ---
Ellipsoid, equimomental system, principle axis. D’Alemberts principle, D’Alembert’s
equation of motion, principles of conservation of linear and angular momentum.
Independence of the motion of center of inertia and the motion relative to the center of inertia.
Principle of conservation of energy, Equation of motion of a rigid body about a fixed axis,
expression for kinetic energy and moment of momentum of a rigid body moving about a
fixed axis. Compound pendulum, interchangeability of the point of suspension and the point
of oscillation, simple equivalent pendulum, Equation of motion of a rigid body moving in two
dimension, expression for kinetic energy and the angular momentum about the origin of a
rigid body moving in two dimension. Equation of motion under impulsive forces.
Refernces:
1. Numerical Analysis-S.A.Mollah, New Central Book Agency.
2. Dynamics of a Particle and of Rigid Bodies-S.L.Lony, Radha Publishing House.
3. Dynamics of Particle and Rigid Bodies-Chakroborty and Ghosh-U.N.Dhur and Sons.
4. A text book on statics-M.Ray-S.Chand
5. Dynamics of a Particle and of Rigid Bodies-S.L.Lony,Radha Publishing House.
6. Dynamics of Particle and Rigid Bodies-Chakroborty and Ghosh-U.N.Dhur and Sons
Integral Transforms & Applications
Fourier transforms, Fourier cosine transforms, Fourier sine transforms, Fourier transforms of
derivative, Parseval’s theorem for cosine and sine transforms. Multiple Fourier transforms,
inversion theorem for Fourier transform, inverse Fourier sine transform, inverse, Fourier
cosine transform, Inverse Fourier complex transformation, Convolution theorem,
relationship between Fourier and Laplace transforms.
Applications of Fourier transforms, Complex inversion formula for Laplace transform,
solution of boundary value problems by Laplace and Fourier transforms.
Mellin transforms, elementary properties, Melline transforms of derivative and integral,
Melline inversion theorem, convolution theorem. Applications of Mellin
transforms,summation of series
Hankel transforms, elementary properties of Hankel transforms, Hankel inversion theorem,
Hankel transforms of derivatives of functions, Hankel ransformation of elementary functions,
Parseval’s relation for Hankel transforms, relation between Fourier and Hankel transforms.
Applications of Hankel transforms , solution of partial differential equation.
References:
1. I.N.Sneddon, The Use of Integral Transforms, Tata McGrawHill
2. B.P.Parasar, Differential equation and integral equation, SBS Publications
3. Petrovsky, Integral Equation, Mir Publication
4. G.Yankovsky, Problems and exercise in Integral Equation, Mir Publication
5. R.R.Goldberg, Fourier Transform, Cambridge Univ. Press.
Fuzzy Set, Rough Sets & Application
Fuzzy sets: Characteristics function and definition of fuzzy sets, fuzzy point,  - level
sets, convex fuzzy sets, basic operations on fuzzy sets. Cartesian products, algebraic
products, bounded sum and difference,
t-norms and t-co norms, quasi-coincidence of two fuzzy subsets. Fuzzy numbers,
triangular fuzzy numbers

--- Page 29 ---
Generalization and variants of fuzzy sets : L-fuzzy sets, interval-valued fuzzy sets,
Type 2 fuzzy sets, intuitionistic fuzzy sets and set operation of intuitionistic fuzzy sets,
The Zadeh’s extension principle.
Fuzzy relations and functions: Fuzzy relations on fuzzy sets, composition of fuzzy
relations, Max-Min and Min-Max compositions, basic properties of fuzzy relations,
Fuzzy pre order and fuzzy order relations, fuzzy equivalence relation, fuzzy
compatibility relations, fuzzy graphs, fuzzy similarity relations, examples of different
fuzzy relations, fuzzy relation equations based on sup-i and inf- compositions.
i
Fuzzy functions on fuzzy sets, image and inverse image of fuzzy sets and some basic
theorem on fuzzy functions.
Fuzzy matrix: Sum, multiplication of two fuzzy matrices, Idempotent fuzzy matrix
and their problems.
Introduction to soft sets, rough sets and its application.
Fuzzy Optimization :
Linear Programming Problems with Fuzzy Recourses:
(i) Vendegay’s approach
(ii) Werner’s approach
L.P.P. with fuzzy resources and objective :
Zimmermann’s approach , L.P.P. with fuzzy parameters in the objective function .
Fuzzy multi-objective Linear Programming Problem . Methodologies of solving fuzzy
M.O.L.P .
Lab Work on Data Structure & Algorithm
Implementation of different abstract data structures in C, with implementations using
different methods and performance comparisons among them wherever possible. Use of data
structures for solving simple problems.
SEMESTER-VI
Complex Analysis
Complex numbers: The complex Plane. Functions of a complex variable. Limit. Continuity.
Differentiability. The definition of an analytic function. Cauchy-Riemann differential
equation. Construction of analytic function.
Complex integration: Jardan arc. Contour . Rectifiable arcs. The absoluate value of complex
integral. Cauchy’s theorem. Cauch’s integral formula. The derivatives of an analytic function.
Cauch’s inequality. Morer’s theorem. Liouville’s theorem. Taylor’s and Laurent’s series.
Maximum modulus principle.
Singularities: Zero of an analytic function. Different types of singularities. Poles, Isolated,
Removal and Essential singularities.
Residues: Residue at pole, Residue at infinity, Cauchys residue theorem, Number of poles
and zeros of an analytic function, Rouche’s theorem.
Contour integration: Evaluation of integrals using contour integration.
Conformal representation: Conformal transformation, Mobius transformation or Bilinear
transformation. Mapping properties of important functions.

--- Page 30 ---
Discrete Mathematics
Functions and matrices: Special functions, Properties of functions, pigeonhole principle,
Composition of functions.
Induction and algorithms: The division algorithm, Divisibility properties, Mathematical
induction, Algorithm correctness, The growth of functions, Complexities of algorithms.
Recursion: Recursively defined functions, Solving recurrence relations, Generating
functions, Recursive algorithms, Correctness of recursive algorithms, Complexities of
recursive algorithms.
Combinatorics and discrete probability: The fundamental counting principles,The
generalized inclusion and exclusion principle, Discrete probability.
Relations: Boolian matrices, Relations and digraphs, Computer representations of relations,
Properties of relations, Operation on relations, The connectivity relations, Equivalence
relations, Partial and total orderings.
Graphs: Computer representation of graphs, Isomorphic graphs, Paths, cycles and circuits,
Eulerian and Hamiltonian graphs, Planner graphs, graph colouring.
Trees: Spanning trees, Minimal spanning trees, Rooted trees, Binary trees, Binary search
trees.
Boolean algebras and combinatorial circuits: Boolean algebras, Boolean functions, Logic
gates, Combinatorial circuits, Minimization of combinatorial circuits, Recent developments.
Essential Reading:
1. T. Koshy, Discrete Mathematics with Applications, Academic Press (An Imprint of
Elsevier) First Indian Reprint 2005.
Supplementary Reading:
1. R. Johnsonbaugh, Discrete Mathematics, Pearson Prentice Hall, 2008
Stochastic Processes
Stochastic Processes: Definition and examples of stochastic processes, Classifications of
stochastic processes, Markov chains: Definition and examples, Transition Probability
matrices, Classification of states of a Markov chain, Determination of higher order transition
probabilities, Stability of a Markov chain, Graph theoretic approach, Markov chains with
denumerable number of states, Reducible Markov chains, Markov Chains with continuous
state spaces, Non-homogeneous Markov Chains, Markov chains in continuous time: General
pure birth and death processes, Birth and death processes with absorbing states, Renewal
processes: Renewal processes in continuous time, renewal equation, Renewal theorems,
Residual and excess lifetime, Renewal reward processes, Regenerative renewal processes,
Regenerative inventory systems, Generalization of the classical renewal theory, Stochastic
processes in queuing and reliability: General concepts of queuing systems, Steady state and
transient behavior, Birth and death process in queuing theory, Network of Markovian queuing
systems, Reliability, Introduction to Brownian motion: Wiener processes, Differential
equations for a Wiener process, Kalmogrov’s equations, The first passage time distribution
for a Wiener process. Recent developments.
Essential Reading :
1. J. Medhi, Stochastic Processes, New Age Publishers, Second Edition, Reprint 2007.

--- Page 31 ---
Supplementary Reading :
1. S. Karlin and H. M. Taylor, A First Course in Stochastic Processes, Academic Press, 1975.
Object Oriented Programming
PRINCIPLES OF OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING:
A Look at Procedure-Oriented Programming, Object Oriented Programming Paradigm, Basic
Concepts of Object Oriented Programming, Benefits of OOP, Object Oriented Languages
TOKENS, EXPRESSIONS AND CONTROL STRUCTURES:
Tokens, Keywords, Identifiers and Constants, Basic Data Types, User-Defined and
Derived,Data Types, Type Compatibility, Reference, Variables, Scope Resolution Operator,
Type Casting, Implicit Conversion, Operator Precedence, Control Structures, Structure,
Function.
CLASSES AND OBJECTS:
Class specification, class objects, accessing class members, data hiding, empty classes,
pointers within a class, passing objects as arguments, returning objects from functions, friend
functions and friend classes, constant parameters and member functions, structures and
classes, static members, objects and memory resource, class design steps.
OBJECT INITIALIZATION AND CLEANUP:
Constructors, destructor, constructor overloading, order of construction and destruction,
constructors with default arguments, nameless objects, dynamic initialization through
constructors, constructors with dynamic operations, constant objects and constructor, static
data members with constructors and destructors, nested classes.
OPERATOR OVERLOADING AND TYPE CONVERSION:
Defining Operator Overloading, Overloading Unary Operators, Overloading Binary
Operators, Overloading Binary Operators Using Friends, Manipulation of Strings Using
Operators, Rules for Overloading Operators, Type Conversions
INHERITANCE: EXTENDING CLASSES:
Deriving Derived Classes, Single, Multilevel, Multiple, Hierarchical, Hybrid Inheritance,
constructors & destructors in derived classes, constructors invocation and data members ,
initialization, Virtual Base Classes, Abstract Classes, delegation.
POINTERS, VIRTUAL FUNCTIONS AND POLYMORPHISM:
Pointers to Objects, this Pointer, Pointers to Derived Classes, Virtual Functions,
Implementation of run-time polymorphism, Pure Virtual Functions.
WORKING WITH FILES:
Classes for File Stream Operations, Opening and Closing a File, File Pointers and their
Manipulations, Sequential Input and Output Operations, Error Handling During File
Operations, Command Line Arguments
GENERIC PROGRAMMING WITH TEMPLATES:
Class Templates with multiple parameters, Function Templates, Overloading of Template
Functions, Member Function Templates.
OBJECT-ORIENTED ANALYSIS AND DESIGN:
Object-Oriented analysis and design, procedure oriented development tools, prototyping ,
paradigm
BOOKS RECOMMENDED
1. Object Oriented Programming By- Budd, Addison Wesley.

--- Page 32 ---
2. Mastering C++ By K.R Venugopal , Rajkumar, TMH.
3. C++ Primer, By - Lip man and Lajole, Addison Wesley.
4. The C++ Programming language by Bjarne Stroustrup, Addition-Wesley
5. C++ programming By Robert Leffore
6. Object Oriented Programming with C++ by Balaguruswamy, TMH
7. An Introduction to Object Oriented Programming with C++ by Timthy Budd,
Addition-Wesley
8. C++ and Object-Oriented Programming By - Kip R. Irvine, Prentice Hall.
Number theory & Cryptology
Basis representation: Principles of mathematical induction, The basis representation theorem,
The fundamental theorem of arithmetic: Euclid’s division lemma, Divisibility, The linear
Diophantine equation, The fundamental theorem of arithmetic, Combinatorial and
computational number theory: Fermat’s little theorem, Wilson’s theorem, Generating
functions, The use of computers in number theory, Fundamentals of congruences: Basic
properties of congruences, Residue systems, Riffling, Solving congruences: Linear
congruences, The theorems of Fermat and Wilson revisited, The Chinese remainder theorem,
Polynomial congruences, Arithmatic functions: Combinatorial study of (cid:0)(n), Formulae for
d(n) and (cid:0)(n), Multiplicative arithmetic functions, The Mobius inversion formula, Primitive
roots: Properties of reduced residue systems, Primitive root modulo p.
Crypotology:
Introduction : Basic objects of Cryptography, secret-key and public-key cryptography, one-
way and trapdoor one-way functions, Cryptanalysis, attack models, Classical cryptography.
Block ciphers : Modes of operation, DES and its variants, RCS, IDEA, SAFER, FEAL,
BlowFish, AES, linear and differential cryptanalysis.
Stream ciphers : Stream ciphers based on linear feedback shift registers, SEAL, unconditional
security,Message digest : Properties of hash function, MD2, MD5 and SHA-1, keyed hash
function, attack on hash function.
Public Key Parameters : Modular arithmetic, GCD, Primality testing, Chinese remainder
theory, Modular square root, finite fields.
Intractable Problems : Integer fatorisation problem, RSA problem, Modular square root
problem, discrete logarithm problem, Diffie-Hellman problem, known algorithm for solving
the Intractable Problems. Public key encryption : RSA, Rabin and EIGamal scemes, side
channel attacks,Key Exchange : Diffie-Hellman and MQV algorithms.
Essential Reading
1. G. E. Andrews, Number Theory, Courier Dover Publications, 1994.
SEMESTER-VII
Measure Theory
Outer measure, Measurable sets and Lebesgue measure, Nonmeasurable sets, Measurable
functions, Littlewood’s three principles, The Riemann integral, The Lebesgue integral of a
bounded function over a set of finite measure, The integral of a nonnegative function, The
general Lebesgue integral, Convergence in measure, Differentiation of monotone functions,
Functions of bounded variation, Differentiation of an integral, Absolute continuity, Convex

--- Page 33 ---
functions, The Lp spaces, The Minkowski and Holder inequalities, Convergence and
completeness, Approximation in Lp, Bounded linear functionals on the Lp spaces.
Essential Reading
1. E. D. Benedetto, Real Analysis: Foundations and Applications, Springer, 2002
2. H. L. Royden, Real Analysis (Third Edition), Macmillan Publishing Company, 1988 3. G.
De. Barra, Measure Theory and Integration, Horwood Publishing Corporation, 2003.
Topology
Topological spaces and continuous functions: Topological spaces, Basis for a topology,
Order topology, Product topology, Subspace topology, Closed sets and limit points,
Continuous functions, Homeomorphism, Metric topology, Quotient topology.
Connectedness and compactness: Hausdorff spaces, Connected spaces, Connected
subspaces of the real line, Compactness and local connectedness, Compact spaces, Compact
subspaces of the real line, Limit point compactness, Local compactness.
Countability and separation axioms: Countability axioms, Separation axioms, Normal
spaces, Regular spaces, Completely regular spaces, Urysohn lemma, Urysohn metrization
theorem, Tietze extension lemma.
The Tychonoff theorem: Compactification, One-point compactification, The Stone-Cech
compactification, Metrization theorems and paracompactness, Local finiteness.
Complete metric spaces and function spaces: Compactness in metric spaces, Pointwise and
compact convergence, Ascoli,s theorem, Baire’s spaces and dimension theory, A nowhere
differentiable function, Applications of topology in engineering and sciences.
Essential Reading:
1. J. R. Munkres: Topology: (Pearson Prentice Hall), 2005.
Abstract Algebra-II
Groups, Subgroups, Centralizers, Normalizers, Stabilizers, Kernels, Cyclic groups,
Subgroups generated by a subset of a group, Quotient groups, Lagrange’s theorem,
Homomorphisms, Isomorphism theorems, Composition series, Solvable groups, Nilpotent
groups, Symmetric group, Alternating group, Group actions, Permutation representations,
Automorphisms, p-groups, The Sylow theorems, Simplicity of the Alternating group, Direct
products of groups, Fundamental theorem of finitely generated abelian groups, Groups of
small orders, Rings, Ring homomorphisms, Ideals, Ring of fractions, The Chinese remainder
theorem, Euclidean domains, Principal domains, Unique factorization domains, Matrix rings,
Polynomial rings, Irreducible Criteria, Eisenstein’s criterion.
Essential Reading:
1. D. S. Dummit & R. M. Footee, Abstract Algebra, Wiley, 2008
Supplementary Reading :
1. I. N. Herstien, Topics in Algebra, Wiley, 2008 2. J. J. Rotman, An Introduction to the
Theory of Groups, Springer, 1999

--- Page 34 ---
Classical and Continuum Mechanics
Classical Mechanics
Generalized co-ordinates, holonomic and non holonomic systems, unilateral and bilateral
constraints; principle of virtual work, D’Alemberts principle. Variational principle, problems
of mechanics, moving problems of calculus of variations, shortest distance, minimum surface
of revolution, Brachistochrone problem iso-perimetric problem, geodesic, fundamental
lemma of calculus of variations.
Lagranges equation of first kind and of second kind, uniqueness of solution, Energy equation
of conservative fields, generalized momentum, problem of Liouville type, cyclic coordinates.
Hamilton’s principle, principle of least action, Routh’s equation, Hamilton-canonical
equation of motion, Poisson bracket, Poisson’s identity, Jacobi-Poisson theorem.
Continuum Mechanics
Stress : Body force, Surface force, Cauchy’s stress principle. Stress vector, State of stress at a
point, Stress tensor, The stress vector-stress tensor relationship. Force and moment
equilibrium, Stress tensor symmetry, Stress quadric of Cauchy, Stress transformation laws,
Principal stress, Stress invariant, Stress ellipsoid.
Strain : Deformation Gradients, Displacement Gradient, Deformation tensor, Finite strain
tensors, Small deformation theory—infinitesimal strain tensor, Relative displacement,Linear
rotation tensor, Interpretation of the Linear strain tensors, Strain ratio,Finite strain
interpretation, principal strains, strain invariant, cubical dilatation, Compatibility equation for
linear strain, Strain energy function. Hook’s Law. Saint Venant’s Principle, Airy’s strain
function.
Isotropic media, Elastic constraints, Moduli of elasticity of isotropic bodies and their relations,
displacement equation of motion. Waves in isotropic elastic media.
Perfect fluid, Kinematics of fluid, Lagrangian method, Eulerian method, Acceleration,
Equation of continuity, The boundary surface,Stream lines and Path lines, Irrotational
motions and its physical interpretation , Velocity potential , Euler’s equation of motion of an
inviscous fluid, Cauchy integral , Bernouli’s equation , Integration of Euler’s equation.
References:
1. D.N.Berghese and A.M.Downs, Classical mechanics and Control, John Willey
2. Goldstein, Classical Mechanics, Narosa Publications
3. Rana and Jong, Classical Mechanics, Narosa Publications
4. E.T.Whittecker, Treatise on the Analytical Dynamics and Rigid Bodies
5. I.S.Sokolnikoff : Mathematical Theory of Elasticity , Tata Mc. Grawhill , 1997.
6. S.Valliappan : Continuum Mechanics , Oxford & IBH Publishing C
Formal Language and Automata Theory
INTRODUCTION:
Introduction to language theory, tokens. Alphabets, definition of grammar, Production rules,
sentences, sentential forms, language definitions, derivations.
REGULAR LANGUAGES:

--- Page 35 ---
Definition, Pumping Lemma of regular sets, Chomsky Hierarchy of languages.
FINITE AUTOMATA:
Finite automaton, Deterministic, Non-Deterministic and their equivalence, Equivalence of
regular expressions and FA. Moore and Mealy machines.
CONTEXT FREE LANGUAGE:
Relations between classes of languages, Context Free Grammar, Derivation trees, ambiguity
simplification, Normal forms, applications.
PUSHDOWN AUTOMATA:
Pushdown automata, definitions, context free languages, construction of PDA for simple
CFLs, Linear bounded automata.
TURING MACHINES:
Turing machines, Introduction to computability, Universal Turing Machines, Types of Turing
Machines, Techniques for construction of Turing machines, Undesirability and Halting
Problem
BOOKS RECOMMENDED
1. Introduction To Automata Theory, Languages, And Computation by John E. Hopcroft,
Rajeev Motwani , Jeffrey D. Ullman, Publisher: Pearson
2. Z. Kohavi, Switching and Finite Automata Theory, Tata McGraw Hill, 1984.
3. E.V. Krishnamoorthy , Introductory Theory of Computer Science, Affiliated East West
SEMESTER-VIII
Functional Analysis
Normed spaces, Banach spaces, Further properties of normed spaces, Finite dimensional
normed spaces and subspaces, Compactness and finite dimension, Bounded and continuous
linear operators, Linear functionals, Linear operators and functionals on finite dimensional
spaces, Normed spaces of operators, Dual spaces, Inner product spaces, Hilbert spaces,
Further properties of inner product spaces, Representation of functionals on Hilbert spaces,
Hilbert-adjoint operator, Self-adjoint, unitary and normed operators, Fundamental theorems
for normed and Banach spaces: Zorn’s lemma, Hahn-Banach theorem, Hahn-Banach theorem
for complex vector spaces and normed spaces, Adjoint operators, Reflexive spaces,
Topological vector spaces.
Essential Reading:
1. Y. Eidelman, V.D. Milman, A. Tsolomitis, Functional Analysis: An Introduction, AMS
Bookstore, 2004
2. E. Kreyszig, Introductory Functional Analysis with Applications, Willey, 1978
Tensor Calculus & Riemanian Geometry
Tensor Analysis-I:
Summation Convension, Kronecker symbol. n-dimensional space, transformation of
coordinates in Sn. Invariants, covariant and contravariant vectors. Covariant, contravariant
and mixed tensors. Algebra of tensors. Symmetric and skew-symmetric tensors, Contraction,
outer and inner product of tensors. Quotient law, reciprocal tensor. Riemann space, the line
element and metric tensor, raising and lowering of indices, associate tensor, magnitude of a
vector, inclination of two vectors, orthogonal vectors. Christoffel symbols and their

--- Page 36 ---
properties, law of transformation law of Christoffel symbols,Covariant differentiation of
tensors, covariant differentiation of sum, difference and product of tensors, Gradient,
divergence, curl and Laplacian.
Tensor Analysis-II:
Curvilinear coordinate system in E3 : line element, lengthy of vector, angle between two
vectors in E3 in a curvilinear coordinate system. Basis in a curvilinear coordinate system,
reciprocal base, covariant and contravariant components of a vector in E3, partial derivative
of a vector. Sperical and cylindrical coordinate system.
Curves in E3 . Parallel vector fields along a curve in E3, parallel vector field in E3 , parallel
vector space in a Riemannian space, parallel vector field in a surface of a Riemannian space.
Serret-Frenet formulas.
Riemann-Christoffel curvature tensor, Ricci tensor, flate space, Bianchi identities, intrinsic
differentiation, conformal curvature tensor, space of constant curvature.
Riemannian Manifold:
Riemannian metric, existence of Riemannian metric, linear connection , existence of linear
connection, torsion and curvature of a linear connection, symmetric connection, symmetric
connection, metric connection, Riemannian connection, existence of Riemannian connection.
Riemann curvature, sectional curvature, Ricci tensor, scalar curvature, tensors in Riemannian
manifold, Schur’s theorem.
Parallel vector field, Geodesics: Existence of geodesic, parallel translation, length
minimizing property of geodesic. complete manifold, Hopf-Rinow theorem, Hadamard
theorem. Parametrised surface, Gause lemma. Totally geogesic submanifold.
Isometric immersion: Riemannian submanifold , second fundamental form of a Riemannian
submanifold, Gauss equation, Ricci equation, Coddazi equation.
References:
1. A Text Book of Tensor Calculus-M.C.Chaki: Calcutta Publishers.
2. Tensor Calculus-U.C.De, A.A.Shaikh and J. Sengupta-Narosa.
3. Differentoa Geometry of Curves and Surfaces in E3(Tensor approach)-U.C.De:
Anamaya Publishers.
4. Vector Analysis-Maity and Ghosh, New Central Book Agency.
5. Vector Analysis- Schaum’s series, Tata McGrawHill
S.Kumeresan, A Course in Differential Geometry and Lie Groups,Hindusthan Book
Agencies,New Delhi,2002
6. U.C.De and A.A.Shaikh , Differential Geometry of Manifolds,Narosa Publishing
House,2007
7. S.Boothby, An Introduction to Differentiable Manifolds and Riemannian Geometry,
Accademic Press,1975
8. F.W.Warner, Foundations of Differentiable Manifolds and Lie Groups, Springer
Verlag,1983
Differential Geometry
Vector Fields: height of the level set, level curves, Integral curve, smooth vector field, The
tangent Space: tangent to the level set, gradient,
Surfaces: Hyperplane, Lagrange multiplier, Vector Fields on Surfaces, maximal integral
curve, orientation and its consistency, Osculating plane, Serret Frenet formula, Singular
points and their classification Gauss, The Gauss map spherical image, one-sheeted
hyperboloid,

--- Page 37 ---
Geodescis: maximal geodesic, great circle, Parallel Transport, covariant derivative and
acceleration, Fermi derivative, The Weingarten Map: shape operator, geodesic flow,
Curvature of plane curves: center of curvature, radius of curvature, Isometries, Intrinsic
differentiation, Gauss-Kronecker curvature, translation, rotation, Funda-mental theorem on
curves,
Riemannin metrics: Hyperbolic metric, Stereographic projection, Poincare metric, affine
and Riemannian connection and covariance derivation, Applications of differential geometry
in engineering and sciences.
Essential Reading
1. J. A. Thorpe, Elementary Topics in Differential Geometry (Springer), 2004.
Soft Computing
Soft Computing Techniques
Neural Networks: Overview of biological Neuro-system,Mathematical models of neurons,
ANN architecture, Learning rules; Learning paradigms - Supervised, Unsupervised and
Reinforcement learning; ANN training algorithms - perceptions, Training rules, Delta, Back
propagation algorithm; Multilayer perceptron model; Applications of artificial neural
networks; Competitive learning networks; Kohonen self organizing networks; Hebbian
learning; Hopfield networks; Associative memories; Boltzman machine; Fuzzy Logic:
Introduction to Fuzzy logic; Classical and Fuzzy sets: Overview of classical sets,
Membership function, Fuzzy rule generation; Operations on Fuzzy sets: Compliment,
Intersections, Unions, Combinations of operations, Aggregation operations; Fuzzy arithmetic:
Fuzzy numbers, Linguistic variables, Arithmetic operations on intervals and numbers, Lattice
of Fuzzy numbers, Fuzzy equations; Fuzzy logic: Classical logic; Genetic Algorithms;
Evolution Strategies; Evolutionary Programming; Genetic Programming; Selecting,
crossover, mutation, schema analysis, analysis of selection; Markov & other stochastic
models; Simulated Annealing; Tabu Search; Ant Colony based optimization,Partical Swam
Optimization.
Project Work / Summer Internship
Departmental Semenier-I
SEMESTER-IX
Integral Equations & Calculus of Variations
Integral Equation
Definition, different types of integral equations; kernels; eigen value and eigen function
problem. Conversion of ordinary differential equations into integral equations, solution of
integral equation, Green’s function and its applications, Fredholm integral equation of the
second kind with separable kernels. Solution of Fredholm and Voltera integral equations by
successive approximation, Classical Fredholm theory: Statements of Fredholm’s first, second
and third fundamental theorems and their applications. Integral equations with symmetric
kernels, Singular integral equations, Integral transform method of solution of integral
equations.

--- Page 38 ---
Calculus of Variations
Calculas of Variation: Euler-Lagrange equation, degenerate Euler equation, Natural boundary,
transversality conditions, simple applications of variational principle, sufficient conditions for
extremum, variational formulations of boundary value problem, minimum of quadratic
boundary value problem, minimum of quadratic functional approximate methods-Galerkin’s
method, variational methods for BVP in ordinary and partial equations.
References
2. I.N.Sneddon, The Use of Integral Transforms, Tata McGrawHill
2. B.P.Parasar, Differential equation and integral equation, SBS Publications
6. Petrovsky, Integral Equation, Mir Publication
7. G.Yankovsky, Problems and exercise in Integral Equation, Mir Publication
8. R.R.Goldberg, Fourier Transform, Cambridge Univ. Press
9.
Decision Theory & Computational Statistics
Decision Theory :
Games and statistical games , statistical decision problem , decision function , risk function ,
prior and posterior distribution, Baye’s risk and Baye’s rules , least favorable prior,
minimaxity ,admissibility and complete classes , admissibility of Baye’s rules , existence of
minimal complete class and Baye’s rules,the supporting and separating hyperplane theorems ,
essential completeness of the class of nonrandomized rules, minimax and complete class
theorems , solving for minimax rules , essential completeness of class of rules based on
sufficient statistics, continuity of risk function, invariant decision problems , admissible and
minimax invariant decision rules .
Computational Statistics
Analysis of variance , one- way and two – way classification , Concept of design of
experiment , Some standard design : completely randomized design , randomized block
design , Latin Squares, Graeco Latin Squares and Factorial Design , Confounding and
blocking in factorial design , fractional factorial design , Simple and multiple regression
models . Classical techniques of time series analysis , smoothing and decomposition ,
Analysis of covariance model
Theory of operators & Banach Algebra
Theory of Operators
Bounded linear operators on Banach and Hilbert spaces , Self – adjoint and normal operators ,
compact operators , Fredholm alternatives , Eigen – value and eigen – vectors , Spectrum,
spectral theory , Banach Algebra of bounded linear operators , Unbounded operators ,
Nonlinear operators, Monotone, Strictly monotone and strongly monotone operators .
Banach Algebra
Normed algebra, Banach Algebra , Gelfand – Mazur theorem , spectrum , spectral radius
formula , commutative Banach algebra , Maximal ideal space , L , as Banach
1
algebras

--- Page 39 ---
Operation Research – I
Goal Programming : Introduction, Difference between LP & GP approach , Concept of
Goal Programming , Graphical solution- method of GP , Modified simplex method of GP .
Dynamic Programming : Introduction , Nature of Dynamic Programming, Deterministic
processes , Non- Sequential discrete optimization , Allocation problems , Assortment
Problems , Sequential discrete optimization , Long-term planning problem , Multi-stage
decision process, Application of Dynamic Programming in production scheduling and routine
problems .
Inventory Control : Inventory control – Deterministic including price breaks and Multi-item
with constraints . Probabilistic ( with and without lead time). Fuzzy and Dynamic inventory
models .
Queuing Theory : Basic Structure of queuing models. Poisson queues , M/M/I , M/M/C or
finite and infinite queue length , Non-Poisson queue- M/G/I , Machine-Maintenance (steady
state ).
Network : PERT and CPM : Introduction , Basic difference between PERT and CPM .
Steps of PERT/CPM Techniques , PERT/ CPM Network Components and precedence
relationships , Critical path analysis , Probability in PERT analysis , Project Time-Cost ,
Trade-Off. Updating of the project , Resource allocation – resource smoothing and resource
leveling .
Replacement and Maintenance Models : Introduction. Failure Mechanism of items ,
Replacement of items deteriorates with time , Replacement policy for equipment when value
of money changes with constant rate during the period. Replacement of items that fail
completely individual replacement policy and group replacement policy. Other replacement
problems staffing problem . Equipment renewal problem .
Simulation : Introduction. Steps of simulation process , Advantages and disadvantages of
simulation. Stochastic simulation and random numbers . Monte – Carlo simulation . Random
number . Generation . Simulation of inventory problems , Simulation of Queuing problems ,
Role of computers in Simulation. Application of Simulations .
Biomathematics- I
Chapter : I.
Qualitative Theory of Linear and non-linear differential equations : Stability of linear system ,
Stability of linearized system , Stability of non- linear system , limit cycle , P-B theorem and
its application
Chapter : II.
Models of biological oscillators : Goodwin’s model , its stability and oscillations .
Chapter : III.
Reaction – diffusion system : Chemotaxis , Developmental pattern formulation and stability
theory , Belousov – Zhabctinskii reaction , Field – Noyes ( F. N. ) model , Stability and
oscillation in F.N. model, relaxation oscillator approximation for the Belousov – Zhabotinskii
reaction and analysis for limit cycle oscillations .
Chapter : IV.
Stability of spatially distributed ecosystem :
Ecological introduction , Diffusion models of spatially distributed communities , occurrence
of diffusive instability in predator-prey systems . Immigration and Emigrations .
Chapter : V.
Continuous population models for single species :

--- Page 40 ---
Ecological introduction , Simple models including Logistic model of uniform population –
their stability analysis . Influences of random perturbations on population stability , delay
models , Lag-factor and stability of population steady state .
Chapter : VI.
Continuous models for two interacting populations : Ecological introduction , Lotka –
Volterra model of predator – prey system , Gausses model ,Kolmogorov model , Types of
predator trophic function , analysis of predator – prey model with limit cycle periodic
behavior – Parametric domains of stability .Relaxation type oscillations and ecological
catastrophes . Completion models – exclusion principle , stability analysis , models of
mutualism - stability analysis .
Chapter : VII.
Continuous models for three or more interacting populations : Food chain models – closed
and open food chains , stability of food chains , persistence of three species food chain .
Chapter : VIII.
Discrete population models for single species :
Ecological introduction , Simple models , A graphical procedure of solutions , discrete
logistic models – their stability , Periodic solutions , Bifurcations and Chaos , Discrete-
Delay models .
Reference Books :
1. Mathematical Biology – J.D. Murray(Springer – Verlag , 1980 )
2. Modelling Dynamic Phenomenon in molecular and Cellular Biology – Lee.A.Segal (
Cambridge University Press ) .
Solid Mechanics- I
Strain : Finite and infinitesimal deformations and strain tensor , Principle strains ,
compatibility equations , Strain components in orthogonal curvilinear co-ordinates .
Stress : State of stress in a body , Stress equations of equilibrium and motion , Surface
conditions , Principal stresses , Stress equations of equilibrium motion in orthogonal
curvilinear co-ordinates .
Fundamental Equations : Equations of equilibrium motion in terms of displacements ,
Beltrami – Michell compatibility equations , Fundamental boundary value problems of
elastostatics and elastodynamics , Uniqueness of solutions , Simply and multiply connected
region , Saint – Venant’s Principle , Semi inverse method .
Plane Problem of Elasticity : Plane strain , Plane stress , Generalized Plane stress , Airy’s
Stress function , Complex representation of biharmonic function, Compatibility equations,
Kolosov-Muskhelisvili formulae for displacements and stresses , First and 2nd fundamental
boundary value problems , Uniqueness of solutions , Solution of plane problems using
conformal mapping, Applications .
Torsion and flexture problem : Torsion of a circular shaft , Torsion of a cylindrical bar of
arbitrary uniform cross-section , Reduction of torsion problem to internal Dirichlet
problem,Stress function , Solution of torsion problem for circular & rectangular cross –
section.
Vibration : General theorem of vibration , Torsional , longitudinal , flexural vibration of a
circular cylinder , Radial vibration of a hollo sphere .
Wave : Wave of dilation and waves of distortion , Motion of a surface of discontinuity,
Velocity of waves in isotropic and anisotropic solid media , Plane wave , Surface wave ,
Rayleigh wave , Love wave .

--- Page 41 ---
Thermo elasticity : Stress-strain relations , Differential equation of heat conduction, Basic
equation in dynamical thermo elasticity(uncoupled case),coupling of temperature and strain
fields , Goodier’s thermo elastic potential , Method of biharmonic representations , Thermo
elastic correspondence principles, Method of Green’s function , Method of complex
variables , Some problems, Thermo elastic vibrations and waves , Elementary concepts of
generalized thermo elasticity.
Fluid Mechanics – I
Fundamental Formulations : Viscous fluids , Viscosity strain tensor , State of cubical dilatation rate
of rotation , Stress-strain relations for viscous fluids(using tensor ). Navier-Stokes equation of motion
and their vector form . Navier-Stokes equations of motion of a viscous liquid in circular cylindrical
and spherical polar co-ordinates .
Extension of Helmholtz’s equations for diffusion of vorticity to a viscous liquid .
Equation of energy in a viscous fluid flow . Rate of dissipation of energy in a viscous liquid flow .
Principle of similitude . Renold’s numbers and Froude numbers in dynamically similar flows . Non-
dimensional form of Navier-Stoke’s equations of steady motion under pressure only .
One dimensional motion: Steady laminar motion of a viscous liquid through straight tubes of
uniform cross section ( general case ), circular section(justifying no slipping at the wall), Elliptic
section , Equilateral triangular section and rectangular section , Steady linear flow through the annular
space between two co-axial circular cylinders and elliptic cylinders.
Viscous flow between parallel planes , Rayleigh’s theory of lubrication .
Two-dimensional motion : Equation satisfied by the stream function in two-dimensional motion of a
viscous liquid under conservative field of external forces and particular cases , Hamel’s equation for
the stream function , Exact solution of Hamel’s equation such that the stream lines are logarithmic
spirals , and the curves of constant vorticity and concentric circles .
Slow steady motion due to a sphere rotating uniformly about a diameter and due to a circular
cylinder rotating uniformly about its axis particular cases .
Diffusion of vorticity from a line vortex , and particular cases .
Three-dimensional motion : Stokes solution for slow steady parallel flow past a sphere,Stokes
formula for the resistance of the sphere, Stokes stream-function in flow past a sphere , Stokes stream-
function in this flow past a sphere and flow pattern , Oseen’s criticism on Stokes solution . , Oseen’s
solution for slow steady parallel flow past a sphere and the resistance of the sphere . Stokes stream-
function in Oseen’s solutions and parallel flow past a circular cylinder . Resistance of the cylinder per
unit length when the Renold’s number of the flow is small .
Mechanics of Viscous Fluids : Fundamental concepts of boundary layer when the Renold’s number
is moderately large . Prandtl’s Equation of the boundary layers , Expressions of displacement
thickness and momentum thickness of the boundary layer . Vorticity and stress components within the
boundary layer in two dimensional motion , Separation of boundary layer from an obstacle .
Blasius equation for steady two – dimensional motion past a flat plate and its solution in
the form of an infinite series . Boundary layer for two dimensional steady converging radial flow
between two non-parallel walls. Boundary layer for steady two – dimensional jet . Flow symmetrical
about a free stream line . Problem of steady three- dimensional jet . Karman’s integral equation of the
boundary layer . Alternative form of the integral equation in terms of displacement thickness and
momentum thickness . Application of Karman’s integral equation in the study of approximate
solutions of steady two – dimensional flow past a flat plate and comparison with the corresponding
exact solutions , calculations of frictional resistance on both sides of the plate and checking of errors .
Application of this method by assuming linear , quadratic ,cubic and biquadratic distribution of
velocity . Lamb’s trigonometric solution.
Mises transformation of boundary layer equation into an equation of conduction of heat
with variable coefficient of conduction .
Nonsteady boundary layers . Method of successive approximations and its application in
the case of a flat plate impulsively set in motion . Unsteady motion of oscillating cylinder and
deduction of oscillatory motions of a piston .

--- Page 42 ---
Reference Books :
1. Viscous fluid theory , Volume – 1 - S.I.Pai
2. Hydrodynamics - H. Lamb
3. New methods in laminar boundary later theory – D. Meksyn
Research Project-I
Departmental Seminar-II
Advanced Topology
Nets, Filters, ultra filters, convergence of nets and filters with special reference to
zero-set filters and ultrafilters, compact sets, compact spaces, simple properties, Alexander’s
theory, Tychonoff’s theory, Locally compact spaces, Tychonoff’s spaces, Topological
embedding, Embedding Lemma, Embedding theory, Compactification, one point
compactification.
Alexanderoff one point compactification, Stone-Cech compactification, β(X),
Ordering of compactification, minimality of X and maximality of β(X).
Weak topology and completely regular topology, Topology generated by a family
of pseudometrics. Uniform spaces, Bases,subbases, total boundedness, Cauchy nets and
filters, Completeness, Uniformly continuous maps, Uniform isomorphism, Product uniform
space, Quasiuniform spaces, Proximity spaces, Induced topology, Proximal neighbourhoods,
Quasiproximity spaces.
List of References:
1) General Topology : J. L. Kelley
2) General Topology : Willard
3) Topology : Dugundji
4) Topology : R. Engalking
5) Topology : K. Kuratowski
6) Proximity Spaces : S.A.Naimpally and Warrack
7) Topology : N. Bourbaki
Computational Fluid Dynamics & Magneto-Fluid dynamics
Computational Fluid Dynamics:
Governing equation of fluid dynamics, Conservation form, simple CFD techniques, Lax-
Wendroff technique, Mac Cormack’s techniques, Finite volume methods, Application to
Euler equation, Upwind difference scheme, viscous flow solutions, staggered grid, SIMPLE
algorithm , SOLA algorithm, boundary element method and application to potential flows.
Magneto-Fluid dynamics:
Some preliminaries on Electricity and Magnetism—Electrostatics, Gauss Law, Dipoles,
Dielectrics, Polarisation, Electric Displacement vector, Conduction Current, Magnetic effects
of currents, Electromagnetic induction.

--- Page 43 ---
The MHD generalization of the theorems of Bernoulli and Kelvin. The Maxwell stress tensor,
The Energy Principle, The MHD physics of MHD power generation.
Fundamental equation of Electrodynamics, Maxwell’s equation, The equation of Magneto-
Hydrodynamics. Study of Conducting fluid in motion. The Magnetic Reynold’s number.
Alfven’s theorem. The law of isorotation of Ferraro. Magneto Hydrostatics, Force-free
magnetic fields, Steady laminar motion, Toroidal and poloidel vector fields, Chandrasekhar’s
equipartition of energy.
SEMESTER-X
Operations research—II
Stochastic programming : Chance constraint programming techniques,
Geometric programming : Geometric programming (both unconstrained and constrained),
Fuzzy geometric programming.
Games : Preliminaries concepts of continuous Game, Bimatrix Games, Nash equilibrium,
solution of Bimatrix Games through quadratic programming (relation with non-linear
programming)
Multiobjective Linear & Non-linear programming,Complete optimal solution, Pareto &
Weak Pareto optimal solution, Utility function method , Global criterion method, Fuzzy
programming technique .
Optimal Control : Performance indices, methods of calculus of variation, Transversally
conditions, simple optimal problems of Mechanics, Pontryagin’s Principle (with proof
assuming smooth condition), Linear regulator, application of dynamic programming in
proving Pontryagin’s Principle, Bang-Bang controls.
Sequencing : Problem with n jobs two machines, n jobs three machines and n jobs m
machines.
Reliability : Concepts, Reliability definition, system Reliability, system failure rate,
Reliability of the systems connected in series or/ and parallel.
Information Theory : Introduction, communication process-memory less channel, the
channel matrix, probability relation in a channel, noiseless channel.
Measure of information—Properties of Entropy function, measure of other information
quantities—marginal and joint Entropies, conditional Entropies, expected mutual information,
axiom for an Entropy function, properties of Entropy function. Channel capacity, Efficiency
and Redundancy.
Encoding: Objectives of encoding,Shannon-Fano Encoding Procedure,Necessary and
sufficient condition for noiseless encoding.
Biomathematics—II
Elementary dynamics of exploited population, the logistic growth model constant rate of
harvesting, fishing effort, generalized logistic models, depensation, Yield-effort curves,
critical depensation.
The open-access fishery, Gordons static model, opportunity cost, externality, economic over
fishing, overfishing catastrophes,production function, Cob-Douglas production function,
discounting, the Schaefer model,optimal harvest policy,effect of discounting.
Elements of control theory,one dimensional control problem, linear variational problem-
singular path,block interval,impulse control.

--- Page 44 ---
The maximum principle and its application in linear variational problems, transversality
conditions, feedback control,economic interpretation of the maximum principle, structure of
the multidimensional optimal control problem and the maximum principle.
Growth and aging, Beverton-Holt fishery model, dynamic optimization.
Multispecies models in fishery management, combined harvesting of two ecologically
independent fish species following logistic growth, bionomic equilibrium, optimal harvest
policy. Combined harvesting of two competing fish species following Logistic growth,
Selective Harvesting. Diffusion model of inshore-offshore fisheries.
Mathematical modeling in Epidemics, Deterministic models, simple epidemics, general
epidemics, Kermack-Mckendric threshold theorem, Recurrent epidemics, Seasonal variation
in infection rate, Allowance for incubation period, Models with undamped waves.
Stochastic epidemic models, Yule-Furry Pure Birth Process, Expectation and variance of
infectives, Calculation of expectation using moment generating functions, the Stochastic
simple epidemic model.
Mathematical models for the effect of toxicant in single species and the predator-prey
systems, effect of toxicants on populations- first order kinetics, effect of toxicants on
populations- environmental and food chain pathways, non-autonomous logistic models of
polulations in deteriorating environment.
Forestry management-the Faustmann model, Kilkki-Vaisanen model, Rorre’s matrix model
for the management of a hight structured forest, modeling on degradation and subsequent
regeneration of a forestry resource, models on acid precipitation and catastrophes in forest
ecosystems.
References
1. C. W. Clark (1976) Mathematical Bioeconomics, The Optimal Management of
Renewable Resources(John Wiley and Sons, New York)
2. C. W. Clark (1985) Bioeconomic Modeling and Fisheries Management (John Wiley
and Sons, New York)
3. B.S.Goh (1980): Management and Analysis of Biological Populations(Elesevier,
Amsterdam)
Solid Mechanics - II
Bending of Plates: Basic equations for bending of thin plates, boundary conditions, bending
of plates of various shapes under different edge conditions, Plates on elastic foundations,
general theory of bending and twisting of thin space-rods, Kirchoff’s kinetic analogue,
stability of circular rod under normal pressure.
Variational Method: Strain energy, Principal of virtual work , displacements and forces.
Reciprocal theorem of Beti and Rayleigh, Theorem of minimum potential energy,variational
problem and Euler’s equations, Rayleigh-Ritz method
Three dimensional problem: stress function, biharmonic function,reduction of Lame and
Beltrami equation to biharmonic equations, Kelvin, Boushinesq-Papkovich solutions,
concentrated forces at an infinite body.
Fracture mechanics: different types of cracks, criterion on cracks, initiation and
direction,Griffith and Irwins theory ,nature of singularies near cracks tips, stress intensity
factor(SIF)
Solution of simple crack problem using intregral equations and intregral transform methods-
line and penny shaped crack,determination of SIF ,crack propagation, Branching and arrest
phenomena.
Plasticity: stress tensor,octrahedral stress,spherical stress,deviatioic stress, stress invariants,
spherical and deviatoric part of strain tensor, concept of strain energy. Yield criterion, yield

--- Page 45 ---
surface,strain hardening and work hardening, loading and unloading, Drukers postulates,
general form of flow equations for strain hardening materials.
Non-hardening materials, Theory of Plastic flow, bending by terminal couples, Torsion of
Beam of circular section, Sokolovesky’s solution for oval section
Fluid Mechanics – II
Basic Thermodynamics of one compressible fluids :
Six governing equations of fluid motion , Crocco-vazsonyi equation , propagation of small
disturbances in a gas , mach number , Dynamical similarity of two flows . Circulation
theorem . Permance of irrotational motion , Bernoulli’s integral for steady isentropic and / of
irrotational motion. Polytropic gas , Critical speed . Equation satisfied velocity potential and
stream functions . Prandtl-Mayer flow past a convex corner .
Steady flow through a De Laval nozzle . Normal and oblique shock waves . Shock-
polar diagram one – dimensional similarity flow .
Steady linearized subsonic and supersonic flows . Prandtl- Glauert affine
transformation . Flow along a wavy boundary flow past a slight corner. Janzen-Rayleigh
method of approximation. Thin supersonic wings . Ackeret’s formula .
Legendre and Molenbroek transformations Chaplygin’s equation for steady
function . Solution of Chaplygin’s equations , Subsonic gas jet problem , Limiting line .
Motion due to a two-dimensional source and a vortex , Kerman-Tsein approximation , Two –
dimensional steady flow , Reimann invariants , Method of characteristic, Transonic flow ,
Law of Transonic similarity , Euler-Tricomi equation and its fundamental solution ,
Hyperbolic flow .
Turbulent Flows : Introduction : Raynold’s equation of mean motion , Raynold’s stress
tensor , Closure problems of Raynold’s equation., Co-efficients of turbulent exchange .
Mixing length , Pranditl’s momentum transfer theory , Taylor’s vorticity transfer
theory , Kerman’s similarity hypothesis , Velocity distribution in channel flow under constant
pressure gradient , Plane Poiseuille flow through a channel boundary by two parallel plates .
Mixing zone between two parallel flows . Turbulent flow in a thin layer , Two –
dimensional jet , Axisymmetric jet .
Two – dimensional turbulent wake behind ( i ) symmetric cylinder , (ii) a row of
parallel rods , Turbulent flow through smooth circular pipes ; (1/7)th power velocity
distribution law ; Turbulent boundary layer on a flat plate.
Statistical approach ; Isotropic homogeneous turbulence , correlation between
velocity components , longitudinal and lateral corrections , Eulerian correlation with respect
to time , Taylor’s one – dimensional energy spectrum , Energy relations in Turbulent flows .
Computational models.
References:
1. Theoretical Aerodynamics – I.M.Milney Thomson, Macmillan ,1958
2. Fluid Mechanics – L.D. Landau and E.M.Linfashitz ; Pergamon , 1959

--- Page 46 ---
Research Project-II
Departmental Semenier-III
STATISTICAL INFERNECE (PARAMETRIC)
Parametric models, parameters, random sample and its likelihood, statistic and its sampling
distributions, problems of inference. Examples from standard discrete and continuous models
such as Bernoulli, Binomial, Poisson, Negative Binomial, Normal, Exponential, Gamma,
Weibull, Pareto etc. Concept of sufficiency, minimal sufficiency, Neyman factorization
criterion, Fisher information, exponential families. Maximum likelihood estimators, method
of moment estimators, percentile estimators, least squares estimators, minimum mean squares
estimators, uniformly minimum variance unbiased estimators, Rao-Blackwell theorem,
Cramer-Rao lower bond, different examples. Statistical Hyptheses-simple and composite,
statistical tests, critical regions, Type-I and Type-II errors, size and power of a test, Neyman
Pearson lemma and its different applications. Most powerful test, uniformly most powerful
test, unbiased test and niformly most unbiased test. Likelihood ratio test. Interval estimation,
confidence intervals, construction of confidence intervals, shortest expected length
confidence interval, most accurate one sided confidence interval and its relation to UMP test.
Essential Eeadings:
1. R. L. Berger and G. Casella, Statistical Inference. 2. E. L. Lehmann, Theory of Point
Estimation
Supplementary Readings:
1. T. S. Ferguson, Statistical Decision Theory. 2. E. L. Lehmann, Testing of Statistical
Hypotheses. 3. P. J. Bickel and K. A. Doksum, Mathematical Statistics. 4. J. O. Berger,
Statistical Decision Theory.
Operating System
INTRODUCTION:
What is an Operating System, Function of Operating System, Operating System Structure:
System Components, Operating System services, System Calls.
PROCESSES:
Process concept, Process State and State Transitions, Process Control Block, Suspend &
Resume of Process, Interrupt Processing, Context Switching
PROCESS SYNCHRONIZATION AND INTERPROCESS COMMUNICATION:
The critical-section Problem, Dekker’s Algorithm, Semaphores, Synchronization Hardware:
Test-and-Set, Compare-and-Swap, Solution of producer-consumer problem.
DEADLOCKS:
System Model, Deadlock Characterization, Methods for Handling Deadlocks, Deadlock
Prevention, Deadlock Avoidance & Banker’s Algorithm, Deadlock Detection, Deadlock
Recovery.

--- Page 47 ---
THREADS:
Single & Multithreading Models, Threading issues, P threads, Solaris 2 Threads, Window 2000
Threads, Linux Threads, Java Threads.
CPU SCHEDULING:
Basic concepts, Scheduling Levels, Scheduling Criteria, Pre-emptive & Non-preemptive
Scheduling, Scheduling Algorithms, Multi-processor scheduling,
MEMORY MANAGEMENT:
Memory Organization, Storage Hierarchy, Storage Management Strategies, Swapping,
Contiguous & Non Contiguous Memory Allocation, Virtual memory: Paging, Segmentation,
Segmentation with Paging, Notion of Locality and working sets, thrashing, page replacement
algorithms
FILE-SYSTEM INTERFACE:
File Concepts, File Organization, Access Methods, Directory Structure, File-system Mounting,
File Sharing, Protection.
FILE-SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION:
File-system Structure, File System Implementation, Directory Implementation, Allocation
Methods, Free-Space Management, Efficiency and Performance, Recovery.
DISK SCHEDULING:
Disk Structure, Disk Caching, Disk Scheduling, Disk Management, Swap-Space Management,
RAID Structure, Disk Attachment, Stable-storage implementation,
PROTECTION:
Goals of Protection, Domain of Protection, Implementation of Access Matrix, Revocation of
Access Rights, Capability-Based Systems, Language-based Protection.
SECURITY:
The security Problem, User Authentication, Program Threats, System Threats, Securing Systems
and Facilities, Intrusion Detection, Cryptography, Computer-Security Classifications.
BOOKS RECOMMENDED:
1. Operating System Concepts By: Abraham Silberschatz, Peter Baer Galvin & Greg
Gagne. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
2. Operating System By: H M Deitel Pearson Education, LPE.
3. An Introduction to Operating System Concepts & Practice By: Pramod Chandra P
Bhatt; PHI Pvt Ltd.
Computer Networking
INTRODUCTION:
Definition, goals, applications and classification of computer networks. Some well-known
networks, Protocols and standards.
NETWORK MODELS:
Layered Tasks, Internet Models, Direct and indirect interconnection, need for addressing and
routing. Concept of subnet-structure and topology of subnet, circuit, message and packet
switching.
NETWORK ARCHITECTURE:
Layered architecture and protocol hierarchy. OSI Reference Model. Services and important
functions of each layer. TCP/IP Model, Design issues of layers.
BRIEF REVIEW OF PHYSICAL AND DATA LINK LAYERS :
Guided and Unguided media, Line Discipline, Flow control, Capacity utilization, Sliding
Window, Stop & wait protocols, Error detection mechanism, VRC,LRC,CRC, Automatic
,Repeat Request(ARQ)- stop-and wait , go-back-n, selective repeat.
MEDIUM ACCESS CONTROL:

--- Page 48 ---
ALOHA, Slotted ALOHA, CSMA, CSMA/CD, Ethernet, Token Ring, CSMA/CA
NETWORK LAYER:
Need for Network layer, Connection–oriented and connectionless services, Addressing:
Internet address, classful address, subneting, superneting, Classless Addressing, Routing
techniques –Static versus Dynamic Routing, flooding, Distance vector and link-state routing,
Basics of IP
TRANSPORT LAYER:
Congestion control algorithms. Basics of TCP and UDP.
APPLICATION LAYER PROTOCOLS: Basics of Telnet, FTP, SMTP, HTTP.
WIRELESS AND MOBILE NETWORKING: IEEE 802.11, IEEE 802.16, BLUETOOTH
and IEE 802.15. Ad-hoc networks. Cellular networks – GSM, CDMA
ISDN, B-ISDN, FRAME RELAY AND ATM NETWORKS: Concept of ISDN and B-
ISDN. Review of the digitization status of the telephone network. X.25, Frame Relay and
ATM evolution, ATM layers, sub layers and their functions, ATM switch architecture.
BOOKS RECOMMENDED:
1. Data Communication and Networking, 4th Edition, McGraw-Hill, Behrouz Forouzan.
2. A. S. Tanenbaum, “Computer Networks”, 4th Ed., Pearson Education Asia (LPE), 2003.
3. L.L. Peterson and B.S. Davie, “Computer Networks: A Systems Approach”, 2nd Ed.,
Morgan Kaufman, Harcourt Asia, 2000.
4. W. Stallings, “Data and Computer Communications”, 6th Ed., Pearson Education
Asia(LPE), 2000.
5. F. Halsall, “Data Communications, Computer Networks and Open Systems”, 4th
Ed.,Pearson Education Asia (LPE), 1996.
6. L. Garcia and I. Widjaja, “Communication Networks: Fundamental Concepts and Key
architectures”, Tata-McGraw-Hill Ed., 2000.
7. J.F. Kurose and K.W. Ross, “Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the
Internet”, Pearson Education Asia (LPE), 2001.
8. L. Kleinrock, “Queuing Systems, Vol. 1: Theory”, John Wiley, 1975.
9. Bertsekas and R. Gallagar, “Data Networks”, 2nd Ed., PHI (EEE), 1988.
10. W. Stallings, “ISDN and Broadband ISDN with Frame Relay and ATM”, 4th Ed.
Homotopy Theory:
Brouwer Fixed point theorem, categories, Functors, Natural transformations, Natural
equivalence, Homtopy, Convexity, Contrctibility, Mapping cylinder and cones, Paths and
path connected spaces, Affine spaces, Affine maps, Homotopy as equivalence relation,
Contractible Spaces, Homotopy of maps, Homotopy classes, Homotopically equivalent
spaces with examples, Fundamental Groups, Induced maps and homomorphisms, Lifting
property, Calculation of first homotopy groups, Function spaces, Group objects and cogroup
objects, Loop space and suspension, Exact sequence of homotopy groups, Homotopy lifting
propert, Homotopy extension property, Fibrations and cofibrations, CW-complexes and their
examples, attaching of maps, Homotopy groups of CW-complexes, The effect on the
homotopy groups of a cellular extension, Spaces with prescribed homotopy groups, Weak
homotopy equivalences and CW-approximation Homotopy extension and classification
theorems, Study of some cases where homotopy theory is applied in electrical engineering.
Essential Reading:
1. J. Rotman, Algebraic Topology, Springer-Verlag, 2004

--- Page 49 ---
Wavelets and Application
Fourier transform on L1 (R) and L2 (R) and basic properties and examples; Motivation and
definition of Windowed Fourier Transform and examples, Time frequency localization, the
reconstruction formula; Motivation and Definition of the wavelet transform and examples,
Basic properties, The reconstruction formula, Frequency localization, Scaling functions and
wavelets, orthogonal bases of compactly supported wavelets, orthonormal Wavelets;
Definition of Multiresolution Analysis and examples, Properties of scaling functions and
orthonormal wavelets bases, Construction of orthonormal wavelets.
Essential Reading:
1. L. Debnath, Wavelet Transforms and Their Applications, Birkhäuser, 2002.
Supplementary Reading:
1. G. Bachman, L. Narici, and E. Beckensterin, Fourier and Wavelet Analysis, Springer-
Verlage, 2000.
2. C.K. Chui, An Introduction to Wavelets, Academic Press, 1992.
Lie Algebra
Definitions and example, Solvable and nilpotent Lie algebras, Simple and semi-simple Lie
algebras, Levi’s theorem, Idealizer and centralizer, Derivation of a Lie algebra, Structure
constant, Special linear algebra, Lie groups and Lie algebras, Classical groups and their Lie
algebras, Cartan-Killing form, Root-space decomposition of a Semi-simple Lie algebra,
Properties of root space, Simple root system and classification of finite dimensional complex
Semi-simple Lie algebra, Cartan matrix, root diagrams, Dynkin diagrams, Weyl group of a
root system, Weyl reflection, Real forms of Lie algebras and their classification through
Satake and Vogan diagram, Applications of Lie groups and Lie algebras to robotics, Genetic
coding, Control theory, Computer vision, Particle physics.
Essential Reading:
1. K. Erdmann, M. J. Wildon, Introduction to Lie Algebras, Springer 2006
Data Mining and Warehousing
OVERVIEW & CONCEPTS:
Need for data warehousing, basic elements of data warehousing, Trends in data warehousing.
PLANNING &REQUIREMENTS:
Project planning and management, Collecting the requirements. Architecture &
Infrastructure: Architectural components, Infrastructure and metadata.
DATA DESIGN AND DATA REPRESENTATION:
Principles of dimensional modeling, Dimensional modeling advanced topics, data extraction,
transformation and loading, data quality. Information Access & Delivery: Matching
information to classes of users, OLAP in data warehouse, Data warehousing and the web.
Implementation And Maintenance: Physical design process, data warehouse.
INTRODUCTION:
Basics of data mining, related concepts, Data mining techniques.
DATA MINING ALGORITHMS:
Classification, Clustering, Association rules.

--- Page 50 ---
KNOWLEDGE DISCOVERY:
KDD Process
WEB MINING:
Web Content Mining, Web Structure Mining, Web Usage mining.
ADVANCED TOPICS:
Spatial mining, temporal mining.
VISUALIZATION:
Data generalization and summarization-based characterization, Analytical characterization,
analysis of attribute relevance, mining class comparisons: Discriminating between
differentclasses, mining descriptive statistical measures in large databases Data Mining
Primitives, Languages, and System Architectures: Data mining primitives, Query language,
Designing GUI based on a data mining query language, Architectures ofdata mining systems
, Application and Trends in Data Mining: Applications, Systems products and research
prototypes, Additional themes in data mining, Trends in data mining
BOOKS RECOMMENDED:-
1. Adriaans, P. (1996), Data mining, Addison-Wesley
2. Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber, Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques, Morgan
Kaufmann Publishers
3. Paulraj Ponnian, “Data Warehousing Fundamentals”, John Wiley.
4. M.H. Dunham, “Data Mining Introductory and Advanced Topics”, Pearson Education
5. Margaret Dunham, “Data Mining: Introductory and Advanced Topics”, Prentice Hall
6. Weiss, Sholom “M. - Predictive data mining: a practical guide” / Sholom M. Weiss, Nitin
Indurkhy. - San Francisco, Calif. : Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 1998. - 1558604030
7. Advances in knowledge discovery and data mining / edited by Usama M. Fayyad. -
Menlo Park, Calif. : AAAI Press; Cambridge, Mass.; London : MIT
8. Thomsen, Erik, 1959, “OLAP solutions : building multidimensional information systems”
/ Erik Thomse. - 2nd ed. - New York; Chichester : Wiley
9. Mitchell, Tom M., Tom Michael, 1951-. - Machine learning / Tom M. Mitchell. - New
York; London : McGraw-Hill
10. Ralph Kimball, “The Data Warehouse Lifecycle toolkit”, John Wiley.
11. M Berry and G. Linoff, “Mastering Data Mining”, John Wiley.
12. W.H. Inmon, “Building the Data Warehouses”, Wiley Dreamtech.
13. R. Kimpall, “The Data Warehouse Toolkit”, John Wiley
14. Konar A., Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing, CRC Press, 2000
Operator Theory
Banach Spaces: The Banach space of continuous functions, Abstract Banach spaces, The
conjugate space of continuous linear functionals, Examples of Banach spaces: c0, l1 and l,
Weak topologies on Banach spaces, The Alaoglu theorem, The Hahn-Banach theorem, The
conjugate space of C([0,1]). The open mapping theorem, The Lebesgue spaces: L1 an L, The
Hardy spaces: H1 and H, Banach algebras: The Banach algebra of continuous functions,
Abstract of Banach algebras, Abstract index in a Banach algebra, The space of multiplicative
linear functions, The Gelfand transform, The Gelfand-Mazur theorem, The Gelfand theorem
for commutative Banach algebras, The spectral radius formula, The Stone-Weirstrass
theorem, The generalized Stone-Weirstrass theorem, The disk algebra, The algebra of
functions with absolutely convergent Fourier series, The algebra of bounded measurable
functions, Geometry of Hilbert space: Inner product spaces, The Cauchy-Schwarz inequality,
The Pythagorian theorem, Hilbert spaces, Examples of Hilbert Spaces: Cn, l2, L2, and H2.

--- Page 51 ---
The Riesz-Representation Theorem, The existence of orthogonal bases, The dimension of
Hilbert spaces, Operators on Hilbert space and C*-algebras: The adjoint operators, Normal
and self-adjoint operators, Projections and subspaces, Multiplication operators and maximal
abelian algebras, The bilateral shift operators, C*-algebras.
Essential Reading:
1. R. G. Douglas: Banach Algebra Techniques in Operator Theory, Springer, 1998
Computer Organization & Architecture
COMPUTING & COMPUTERS:
Evolution of computer:-mechanical era, electronic computers, integrated circuits, processor
architecture, system architecture.
DESIGN METHODOLOGY:-
System design:-system representation, design process, gate level. Register level:- register
level components, programmable logic devices, register level design. The processor level
processor level components, processor level design.
PROCESSOR BASIC:-
Computer Organization:- Fundamentals, additional features, Data Representation:-basic
formats, fixed point numbers, floating numbers. Instruction Sets:-instruction formats,
instruction types, programming considerations
CONTROL DESIGN:-
Instruction sequencing & instruction interpretation, Hardwired Control:-design methods,
multiplier control unit, CPU control unit, Micro programmed control:- micro instructions &
their encoding.
MEMORY:
C.P.U memory interaction, memory array organization & technology, Memory hierarchies,
main memory allocation, segment, pages & files .High speed memories, Interleaved
memories, caches & associative memories, Cache coherence:-sequential and weak
consistency, snoopy bus protocol and directory based.
INPUT-OUTPUT ORGANIZATION:
Addressing I\O devices, Data transfer synchronization, Interrupt handling I/O channels,
Computer peripherals & interfacing., Direct Memory Access, Examples of I/O Buses:
PCI,SCSI, USB
BASICS OF PIPELINING:
Instruction and data pipelining, speedup, Definitions of pipeline hazards: structural, data, and
control and simple techniques for handling them.
BOOKS RECOMMENDED:-
1. H.M. Mann, Computer System Architecture”,P.H.I.
2. J.P Hayes, Computer Architecture & Organisation, McGraw-Hill.
3. Computer Organization 5th Ed.-Carl Hamacher Publisher: McGraw-Hill.
4. Computer Organization And Architecture - Stallings Publisher: Pearson Education
5. A.P. Malvino “Digital Computer Electronics”, McGraw-Hil
**********