
--- Page 1 ---
 

Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
between
CSIR-NCL and NIT Agartala

This memorandum of Understanding (MoU) is entered into on 30" May 2015.
BETWEEN

Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, a society incorporated under the Societies Registration Act-
1860, having its registered office at “Anusandhan Bhavan”, 2, Rafi Marg, New Delhi-110001 through its
constituent National Chemical Laboratory, Dr. Homi Bhabha Road, Pune -411008 (India) (hereinafter
referred to as CSIR-NCL, the expression which unless repugnant to context shall be deemed to include
its successors, administers and executors) of the first part

AND

National Institute of Technology, Agartala, an institute of National importance and center of excellence
under the Ministry of HRD, Government of India, having its registered office at NIT Agartala campus,
Jirania, West Tripura, PIN — 799046. Tripura, India (hereinafter referred to as NIT AGARTALA, the
expression which unless repugnant to context shall be deemed to include its successors, administers and
executors) of the second part

- Preamble
CSIR is a premier research and developmentorganization in India. NCL. a constituent laboratory
of the CSIR, is engaged in R & D in the field of chemical, materials, biochemical sciences and
engineering having a strong track record of basic and industrial research for last 60 years.
Specifically, interdisciplinary soft matter research has emerged as a major thrust area at NCL.

NIT AGARTALA is a national institute imparting education on applied science and professional/
technical education focused on unification of traditional disciplines under common themes, while
maintaining the rigor that characterizes individual disciplines and, on convergence of fundamental!
and applied sciencesalong with technologies associated to facilitate the emergence of new
technologies.NIT AGARTALA has been established in Agartala with soft condensed matter being
one of the initial focus areas.

It is theshared vision of both organizations (CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALA) to develop
coilaborations that address important problems of National interest, especially insoft matter
research. It is anticipated that collaborations that leverage the strengths of research groups at
CSIR-NCLand at NIT AGARTALAwill result in high quality science with national and international
impact and, that will also have implications for development of technology be relevant for the
Nation.

It Is in this context and understanding that CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTAL Ahave expressed their
desire to enter into a MoU encompassing the said intentions and to formalize and put in place


--- Page 2 ---
mechanisms to build strong collaborative research programs and, plan activitl

interest.

With a view to achieve these broad objectives it Is now broadly agreed by and between CSIR-N

NIT AGARTALAas follows:

Mutual co-operation between NCL and NIT AGARTALAfor building collaborative programs and activities

shall be broadly but not restricted to activities under following heads.

+, Collaborative research and academic programs

4. Student Exchange: CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALAagree to encourage and support the
travel of students between the two institutions to take part in discussions involving joint

projects. During these visits, the host institution will extend accom
hospitality to the visitors.

modation and

b. Exchange of researchers and faculty: CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALAagree to
encourage and support visits of researchers and faculty between the two institutions.
CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALA will each support the travel of their staff, and will extend
accommodation and hospitality to visiting members from the other institution.

c. Joint students: Collaborative research programs are most effective when they are
implemented by jointly supervised PhD students. In recognition of this, CSIR-NCLand
NIT AGARTALA commit to developing mechanisms for appointing joint PhD students on

collaborative projects.

Modalities for implementation of the collaborative research and academic programs will
be developed by a committee appointed by the Directors of CSIR-NCLand NIT

AGARTALA.

9 Joint events and activities:

CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALAagreeto work together in planning and executing science
outreach activities so as to stimulate students’ interest in science Career
mutual interest. For this purpose, the science outreach groups at CSIR-NCLand NIT
AGARTALAshall discuss and arrive al collaborative activities and mechanisms to

implement them.

3. General

s — a goal of

4. This MoU is for the purpose of agreement on broad policy matters, inter se relations with
NIT Agartalaand NCL. Any specific matter not provided for in this MoU may be added

with mutual consent.

b. Any Communication may be sent to the other party on its known address including

electronic means such as emails.

4. Term of the VioU

4. The term of this MoU shall be for a period of 5 years from 30°" May 2015.

 


--- Page 3 ---
 

5. Resolution of contentious issues

Any contentious issue arising out of this MoU shall be resolved jointly by the Directors of
CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALA.

6. Force Majeure

Neither party shall be held responsible for non-fulfillment of their respective obligations under this
MoU due to the exigency of one or more of the force majeure events such as but not limited to
acts of God, War, Flood, Earthquakes, Strikes, Lockouts, Epidemics, Riots, Civil Commotions
etc., provided on the occurrence and cessation of any such event the party affected thereby
shall give a notice in writing to the other party within one month of such occurrence or
cessation. If the force majeure conditions continue beyondone month, the parties shall jointly
decide about the future course of action.

The parties have caused their authorized representatives to sign this MoU on this 30" May 2015

WY

 

en Ei N
*
Director, NIT AGARTALA Director, CSIP Nie Pune
, Mr. Gopal Mugeéraya)
Date: : Date Frgerer/DIRECTOR
“—~ Director, afrocrmrare - mecha cerahres ratrenerr
National [nstitute of Techno CSIR - National Chemical Laboratory
& get * qt /Pune - 411 008. India
y WITNESSES:
rls a Meyecw
Croftms Name: Ci: ) yobhe
Address: NO f T : Address: IN CéZ, : ma aca

Signature: Signature: LA . GM gts. (v=


--- Page 4 ---
APPENDIX I:

Implementation of Joint Research and Academic Programs between CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALA

Student exchange.

Exchange of students as part of collaborative projects can be initiated by researchers at CSIR-NCLor
faculty at NIT AGARTALA. The travel cost for the students and a pet diem, as sanctioned by the
Directors, will be supported by their respective institutions. The host institution thal the students visit
agrees to provide accommodation free-of-charge to the visiting students.

Exchange of researchers and faculty:

CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALA agree to encourage exchange visits of researchers and faculty to develop
collaborative research programs. The travel cost for such visits will be supported by the respective
institutions. The host institution that the students visit agrees to orovide accommodation free-of-charge to
the visiting researchers/faculty.

Joint students:

jl Ee

CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALA agree to jointly select students to work on oreviously identified
collaborative programs. The mechanism for this will be as follows:

Collaborative projects will be identified through discussions between CSIR-NCLresearchers and NIT
AGARTALA faculty. Once a project has been identified, the CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALA collaborators
will put together a one-page description of the project topic. This can be done at any time during the
year.

Students admitted through the regular channels at CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALA will be provided the
option of working on these collaborative programs. Interested students will then be interviewed by a joint
panel of CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALA scientists, to select the students for these projects. These
students will be identified as ‘joint students .

Joint students will necessarily have a main advisor (either at CSIR-NCLor NIT AGARTALA) and a co-
supervisor from the other institution. The rest of the thesis committee of the joint student will be
constituted in the normal manner, depending on the institution where the student is resident.

Joint students will be normally resident at either of CSIR-NCL(in which case, their advisor will be from
CSIR-NCLand, they will need to follow CSIR-NCLand AcsIR guidelines) or NIT AGARTALA (in which
case, their advisor will be from NIT AGARTALA and, they will need to follow the NIT Agartala academic
guidelines). intellectual property rights arising from collaborative work by joint students will be assigned,
after discussions between CSIR-NCLand NIT AGARTALA as and when such an occasion arises. IN
academic publications, the joint student will be shown to have affiliations to both CSIR-NCLand NIT
AGARTALA.


--- Page 5 ---
 

9 visit the co-supervisor’s institution regularly. The travel costs and per-diem
ported by the ‘stitution where the student Is normally

f cost to the students by the host institution.

Joint students are expected t
for the students during such visits will be sup
resident. Accommodation will be provided free o
