
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 56

 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,
AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, P.O- NIT Agartala, West Tripura, Pin: - 799046,
Url :- www. nita.ac.in

DNleT No.: 124/NITA/Estate Elect. /2023-24

Name of Work:
“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for

06 (Six) numbers of Diesel Generator Sets at NIT
Agartala campus.”

  
 

Certified that this DNleT contains 56 (Fifty Six) pages numbered from 1 to 56

A :
[Soar rl qr cue

el.
J.E (Elect.) A.E (Elect.) Estate Engineer dosent Dear (P&D) Elect.

Draft Notice Inviting e-Tender nd (Fifty Six) pages is hereby APPROVED

t—Vrolne? 4 f

Pe
Dean (P&D)
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of S6

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

 

 

 

 

 

 

INDEX
r
SL. Contents Page No.
No. i
A Notice Inviting e-Tender 3
| B _Pshedute of Important Events / Activities 4
C  |Guidelines for e-Tendering
D Other information and terms & conditions 8
r— E ~ Bigder Quatification Criteria

 

F

is of Documents to be scanned and uploaded 14

 

 

 

 

| | | | | Ely td |

 

Ppt et

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G {Safety Codes 14
- H ec Safety 14
| Form of Performance Security (Guarantee) } 15
J Integrity Pact 17
po
K {Agreement 25
L leeneral Condition of Contract 28
| M [Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions of Contract T 29 |
N  |Formats for Different Forms/ Certificates _i 41
0 Financial Bid 56 4
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Aa oy &


--- Page 3 ---
TST Beater AIA SRA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura, India, Pin-- 799046

   

No. F.NITA-23(243E)/Estate Elect./2020/Vol- [9662-67 « Date:- A4/£4/2024
Press Notice Inviting E-Tender (PNIe-T)

On behalf of NIT Agartala, the Registrar NIT Agartala invite Item rate e-tender from the eligible registered
bidder for 04 (Four) nos. Electricat works upto 05:00 PM on 14/12/2024. For details, please visit

http//www.nita.ac.in & https://eprocure.gov.in. Date of opening of bid on 16/12/2024 at
11:00 AM,

Any subsequent corrigendum will be availabie in the website only,

 

 

\ ‘4
oy iw

Registrar, NIT Agartala

Ta,

Ridge Advertising & Marketing Consultants, F-32, ist Floor (Back Side), Roshpa Tower, Main
Road, Ranchi-834001, Jharkhand, with a request to publish the notice in 03 (Three) Local Newspapers
i.e. Dainik Sambad, Tripura Times & Tripura Observer including 2 (Two) newspapers i.e. Assam Tribune &
Times of India (North East) on 28 / 11 /2024.

Copy to:

1. P.S. to the Director, for kind information of Director please.

7. The Nadal Officer, e-Procurement, NITA with a request to kindly arrange uploading the Tender
Documents in the CPP portal https://eprocure.gov.in/cppp.

3. A.R (Purchase)/A.R (Admin-2), NIT Agartala with a request to uploading the Tender documents in
the Institute website site & CPP porta! https://eprocure.gov.in/cppp and complete all procedure.

4. The A.R (Finance), for kind information.

5, Mr, Kamal Kanti Paul, System Administrator with a request to uploading the Advertisement and
relevant documents in the website: https://eprocure,gov.in/epublish/app & http://www. nita.ac.in.

Registrar, NIT Agartala

National Insticuce of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, P-O- NIT Agartala, West Tripura, Pin: - 799046, Tel, No, 088 1-2346630/ 6629,
Fax. No, 098 1-2546860, Url -- www.nitaac.in


--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 56

Usa Welt FIA sda

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura, India, Pin-- 799046

NOTICE INVITING e-TENDER

Ref: e-Tender Notice No. F.NITA-23(244E)/Estate Elect./2024

NIT Agartala invites online item rate tender through e-procurement portal for
the under mentioned work at NIT Agartala from the eligible bidders as per the

eligibility criteria mentioned in the tender document. The details are given
below:

 

A.1 information Related to Bid

       
   
  
  
     
     
      
 
     
   
  

 

DNleT No.: 124/NITA/Estate Elect. /2023-24

“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract
for 06 (Six) numbers of Diesel Generator Sets
at NIT Agartala campus.”

Rs. 81,400/- (Rupees Eighty One Thousand Four
Hundred Only) by e-payment through electronic
mode,

       

A.1.2. |Name of Work

  
    

  

Earnest Money Deposit
(Rs.}

 

  
 

Tender Processing Fee
(Rs. )

 

Rs. 1,500/- by e-payment through electronic
mode (Non-Refundable)

  

‘ initially for a period of 3 (Three) Years and it will
Ganthack period be extended to 4"" & 5" year based on the

 

 

 

 

 

satisfactory performance and subject to approval of
| the authority.
Mode of submission of :
A.1.6 Tender On-Line mode only

    

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Aa a4

 


--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 56

A.2 Key Events and Dates

 

A.2.1 | Publishing Date

    

/___/2024

= |

 

A.2.2 Period of seeking clarification

Upto 05:00 PMon___/ ss /2024

 

A.2.3 | Pre-Bid Meeting

11:00 AM on __/_ /2024 at oftice|
of the Dean P&D, Administrative
Block-1, 2™ Floor, NIT Agartala.
{Those who are interested can attend.

 

 

Last date and time of closing of
uploading/online submission of tender
A.2.4 | including scanned copy of EMD and
tender Processing Fee details/receipts
and other documents as specified

Upto 05:00 PMon___/ ——/2024

 

A.2.5

Date & Time of online opening of

| 05.00PMon__/__/2024 |

 

 

A.2.6

 

technical bid
late and Time of opening of financial
| bid of qualified bidders

 

| Will be notified at a later date

 

 

A.3 Other Important Information Related to Bid

 

Mode of
payment of
A.3.2 Tender
Processing
Fee and EMD

 

 

 

A.3.3 th Validity

Contractor

AB | Performance 5% of tendered value on acceptance of bid.

™ Guarantee
| | Bidders will have to deposit the Tender Processing Fee and

__| will not be entertained by the Institute.

 

EMD through On-Line mode only. Details for the same are as
below:

Name of beneficiary :NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

AGARTALA
Address : Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura-799046
Account No, : No. 30936141729,

MICR No:799002525
Name of the Bank _—_;State Bank of India
Address of the bank =: NIT Agartala
IFSC Code : SBINOO11491
Bidders will have to upload scanned copy of Payment details
towards cost of tender processing fee & EMD during the
submission of tender and the same will be accepted only on
verification & confirmation by the Institute. Any delay in credit

 

 

 

 

180 Days from the date of opening of Technical Bid

1

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Aa Cy *


--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 56

 

B.1 It is mandatory for all the applicants to have class II or Ill digital signature
certification from licensed certifying agency like NIC, MTNL, e-mudra, TCS,
safescrypt, GNFC etc.

B.2 Detailed NIT can be viewed free of cost on NIT Agartala website under the
URL http://www.nita.ac.in/tenders/ . Schedule of quantities (Financial bid form) can
be downloaded only from https://eproc v.in/e ure/a Uploading of
tender will be possible only after making payment of Tender Processing Fee and
EMD,

B.3 The tender shall be submitted online in the prescribed format before the
date and time as mentioned in NIT. No other mode of submission is acceptable.

B.4 The applicant have to upload the details of e-payment of processing fee &
EMD before the last date & time and download the tender documents form the e-

tendering portal https://eprocure,gov.in/eprocure/app.

B.5 Tenderer are advised to upload their documents well in time to avoid last
minute rush on the server or complication in uploading. NIT Agartala will not be
responsible for any type of problem in uploading the documents. No hard copies for
tender submission shall be entertained.

B.6 Online bid documents submitted by intending bidders shali be opened only
of those bidders, who has deposited e-Tender Processing Fee and Earnest Money
Deposit and other documents scanned and uploaded are found in order.

B.7 Information and Instructions for bidders posted on website shall form part
of bid document.

B.8 The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of
quantities of various types of items to be executed and the set of terms and
conditions of the contract to be complied with and other necessary documents can

be seen and downloaded from website https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app free

of cost.
B.9 Bids from Joint Ventures are not acceptable.
B.10 On opening date, the contractor can login and see the bid opening process.

After opening of bids he will receive the competitor, bid sheets.

B.11 Contractor can upload documents in the form of JPG format and PDF format.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 56

B.12 The price bid format is provided in a spread sheet file like BoQ_price
bid.xls, the rates offered should be entered in the allotted space only and uploaded
after filling the relevant columns. The Price Bid/BOQ template must not be
modified/replaced by the bidder; else the bid submitted is liable to be rejected for
this tender.

B.13 Contractor must ensure to quote rate of each item. Therefore, if any cell is left
blank and no rate is quoted by the bidder, rate of such item shall be treated as “0”
(ZERO).

B.14 The technical bid will be opened online first on due date and time as mentioned
above. The time and date of opening of financial bid of contractors qualifying the
technical bid shall be communicated to them at a tater date.

B.15 Completed Tenders containing technical bid and price bid will be received
ONLINE only on CPP Portal website https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app at the fixed
time and date indicted in the NIT. The Tenderer will be at liberty to be present either in
person or through an authorized representative at the time of opening of the Technical
Bid with the Bid Acknowledgement Receipt or they can view the bid opening event online
at their remote end.

B.16 If there are any clarifications, this may be obtained online through the tender
site, or thro’ the contact details. Bidder should take into account the corrigendum
published before submitting the bids online.

B17 It is construed that the bidder has read all the terms and conditions before
submitting their offer. Bidder should go through the tender schedules carefully and upload
the documents as asked; otherwise, the bid will be rejected,

B.18 The bidder has to digitally sign and upload the required bid documents one by
one as indicated. Bidders to note that the very act of using DSC for downloading the bids
and uploading their offers shall be deemed to be a confirmation that they have read all
sections and pages of the bid document including General conditions of contract without
any exception and have understood the entire document and are clear about the
requirements of the tender requirements.

B.19 The bidders are requested to submit the bids through online e-tendering system
to the Tender Inviting Authority (TIA) well before the bid submission end date & time (as
per Server System Clock). The TIA will not be held responsible for any sort of delay or the
difficulties faced during the submission of bids online by the bidders at the eleventh hour.
Tenderers are advised to upload their documents well in time to avoid last minute rush on
the server.

B.20 The time settings fixed in the server side & displayed at the top of the tender
site, will be valid for all actions of requesting, bid submission, bid opening etc., in the e-
tender system. The bidders should follow this time during bid submission.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

A, x


--- Page 8 ---
Page 8 of 56

 

{4 The bid submitted shall become invalid and e-tender processing fee shall
not be refunded if:
© lf the bidder is found ineligible.
® If the documents submitted by the successful bidder does not
match with the originals before the award of work.

C.2 The Contractors/companies that were black listed at any stage need
not to apply.

C,3 The Turnover certificate from CA (chartered accountant) for three years
showing annual turnover which should not be less than Rs. 25 Lakhs in average. As
per Annexure-2 Scanned copy of certificate from chartered accountant to be
uploaded.

C.4 IF ANY INFORMATION FURNISHED by the applicant is found to be incorrect
at a later stage, they shall be liable to be debarred from tendering/ taking up
works in NIT AGARTALA.

c.5 The competent authority on behalf of the Director NIT Agartala does not
bind itself to accept the lowest or any other bid and reserves to itself the authority
to reject any or all the bids received without the assignment of any reason. All
bids in which any of the prescribed condition is not fulfilled or any condition
including that of conditional rebate is put forth by the bidders shall be summarily
rejected.

C.6 Canvassing whether directly or indirectly, in connection with bidders is
strictly prohibited and the bids submitted by the contractors who resort to
canvassing will be liable for rejection.

C.7 The competent authority on behalf of the Director, NIT Agartala reserves
to himself the right of accepting the whole or any part of the bid and the bidders
shall be bound to perform the same at the rate quoted.

C.8 The bid for the works shall remain open for acceptance for a period of
ninety (180) days from the date of opening of technical bid. If any bidders
withdraws his bid before the said period or issue of letter of acceptance,
whichever is earlier, or makes any modifications in the terms and conditions of the
bid which are not acceptable to the department, then the NIT Agartala shall,
without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit 100% of the
said earnest money as aforesaid. Further the bidders shall not be allowed to
participate in the rebidding process of the work.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

(Oy ¥


--- Page 9 ---
Page 9 of 56

C.9 This notice inviting Bid shall form a part of the contract document. The
successful bidders/contractor, on acceptance of his bid by the Accepting Authority
shall within 15 days from the stipulated date of start of the work, sign the contract
consisting of: - 5

* The Notice Inviting Bid, all the documents including additional conditions,
specifications, General Conditions of Contract and drawings, if any, forming part
of the bid as uploaded at the time of invitation of bid and the rates quoted online

at the time of submission of bid and acceptance thereof together with any
correspondence leading thereto.

* Any other Standard CPWD Form /other forms as applicable/ mentioned.

€.10 Mode of payment of Tender Processing Fee and EMD: Bidders may deposit
the Tender Processing Fee and EMD through online mode only. Details for the same
are as below:

Name of beneficiary : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Address : Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura-799046
Account No. > No. 30936141729, MICR No:799002525
Name of the Bank ‘State Bank of India

Address of the bank :NIT Agartala

IFSC Code : SBINOO11491

Bidders will have to upload scanned copy of Payment details towards cost of tender
processing fee & EMD during the submission of tender and the same will be accepted
only on verification & confirmation by the Institute. Any delay in credit will not be
entertained by the Institute,

C.11 TAXES: -

i) This is Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract. The taxes as applicable
shall be deducted from each bill paid to the contractor.

i) item rate should be inclusive of GST.

ii} tncome Tax and Cess as applicable shall be deducted from each bill paid to
the contractor.

iii) Contractor should be registered under EPF and as per law, shall pay EPF of
contract workers to concerned Department from time to time.

iv) Any other taxes/cess as per Government directives shall be deducted from
each bill paid to the contractor from time to time or as per rule in case of
manufacturer.

C.12 For any queries regarding e-tendering process, the bidders are requested
to contact as provided in the tender document. Parallely, for any further queries,

the bidders may send a mail over to estateelectrical.nita@gmail.com &
estatesectioncivil@gmail.com

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Ba ~Y


--- Page 10 ---
Page 10 of 56

C.13 The specifications, Terms & Conditions, other regulations which are nox
herein mentioned will be guided by relevant CPWD guidelines, manual,
specifications / BIS / IS/ Other Central / State Govt. norms applicable for NIT
Agartala & as prescribed by the OEM and the decision in this regard will be guided
by the decision of the respective authority of NIT Agartala which shall be final and
binding to the contractor,

C,14 Tender documents may be downloaded from Central Public Procurement

Portal_https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. Aspiring Bidders/ Suppliers who

have not enrolled / registered in e-procurement should enroll /register before
participating through the website nttps://eprecure.gov.in/eprecure/app, The
portal enrolment is free of cost.

C.15 Tenderers can access tender documents on the website, fill them with
all relevant information and submit the completed tender document into

electronic tender on the website https: / /eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.

C.16 Tenders and supporting documents should be uploaded through e-
Procurement. Hard copy of the tender documents will not be accepted.

C.17 in the event of acceptance of a tender, the documents submitted by the
successful bidder shall be verified with the originals before the award of work.

C.18 The tenderer should not have been blacklisted or debarred by any
Central/ State / Public Agency from carrying out similar business during last three
financial years.

C.19 The party whose tender has been accepted has to execute an agreement
on non- judicial stamp paper immediately after work order is issued.

C.20 Performance guarantee in the form DD/BC @ 5% of tendered amount has
to be furnished within 15 days of issue of LOA.

C.21 If called for, originals of the document submitted shall be produced.

C.22 Latest General condition of contract (GCC) of CPWD will be applicable to
the extent relevant to the job.

€.23 The security deposit will be collected by deductions from the running bills
of the Bidders at the rate 10% including earnest money and “Performance Bank
Guarantee” (5%).The earnest money and Performance Bank Guarantee shall be
treated as part of security deposit. A sum @ 10% of the gross amount of the bill
shall be deducted from each running bill of the Bidder till the sum along with the
earnest money and “Performance Bank Guarantee” (5%). equal to amount of 10% of
the bided value of the work ..

C.24 Any dispute is subject to the jurisdiction of Civil Court Tripura.

C25 This work covers “Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 06
(Six) numbers of Diesel Generator Sets (make - Volvo Penta, Cummins) at NIT
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 11 ---
Page 11 of 56

Agartala campus”

C.26 The work shall be executed as per CPWD General Specifications for
Electrical Works Part VII D.G. Sets - 2013 with upto date amendments as per

relevant IS/ BIS /Other Central Govt./state Govt. norms, OEM standards applicable
and as per directions of Engineer-in-Charge. These additional specifications are to
be read in conjunction with above. However, nothing extra shall be paid on account
of these additional specifications & conditions as the same are to be read along with
schedule of quantities for the work.

C.27 Necessary clarification required by the NIT Agartala shall have to be
furnished by the Tenderer within the time given by the NIT Agartala for the same.
The Tenderer will have to depute his representative to discuss with the officer(s)
of the NIT Agartala as and when so desired. In case, in the opinion of the NIT
Agartala a Tenderer is taking undue long time in furnishing the desired
clarifications, his bid will be rejected without making any reference.

C.28 A tenderer will also not be allowed to withdraw or modify any
condition at a time after the technical bids have been accepted and the
decision to open the price bid has been taken by the NIT Agartala.

C.29 The Tenderer should in his own interest visit the site and familiarize
himself with the site conditions before tendering.

C.30 No T&P shall be issued by the NIT Agartala and nothing extra shall be
paid on account of this.

C.31 The Tenderer will have to fill up their rates only in the price bid in BoQ
format inclusive of Taxes, packing & transportation charges or any other charges
of the materials. Tenders in which the price bids are given in any other format are
liable to be rejected,

C.32 The NIT Agartala reserves the right to reject any or all the price bids and
call for fresh prices/ tenders as the case may be without assigning any reason.

€.33 All materials, articles and workmanship shalt be of respective best
quality and kind for the class described in the schedule of quantities and
specifications. All materials, so used in different items of work shall be subject to
the approval of the Engineer- in-charge.

C.34 The payment shall be on item rate basis and on the actual quantity
executed under AMC Services,

C.35 No extension of time shall be granted to the contractor on account of
rains or inclement weather conditions,

C.36 Terms of Payment:
Payments shall be released as per General Conditions of contract and the following
conditions.

* The payment will be made Half-Yearly on receipt of your bills and supporting
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Jy oe


--- Page 12 ---
Page 12 of 56

documents after satisfactory and successful completion.
e If the work carried out by the contractor is not satisfactory, NIT Agartala shall
hold such bills till satisfactory services are provided.

e® Any amount due from the contractor te NIT Agartala will be recovered from his
bill.

C.37 Performance Guarantee:

The contractor whose bid is accepted will be required to furnish performance
guarantee of 5% (Five Percent) of the bid amount within Seven days of issue of LOI.
This guarantee may be in the form of Banker's cheque of any nationalized
bank/Demand Draft of any nationalized bank. In case the contractor fails to
deposit the said performance guarantee within the period as indicated above,
including the extended period (Maximum allowable extension with another 07 days
with late fee @ 0.1% per day of Performance Guarantee amount), the Earnest
Money deposited by the contractor shall be forfeited automatically without any
notice to the contractor.

C.38 Refund of performance guarantee: The performance guarantee shall be
refunded to the contractor two months after the completion of the work.

C.39 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND INDIAN STANDARDS: All works
shall be carried out in accordance with relevant regulation, both statutory and
those specified by the Indian Standards related to the works covered by these
specifications,

c,.40 INDEMNITY: The successful tenderer/bidder shall at all times indemnify
the NIT Agartala, consequent on this works contract. The successful
tenderer/bidder shall be liable, in accordance with the indian Law and Regulations
for any accident occurring due to any cause and the NIT Agartala shall not be
responsible for any accident or damage incurred or claims arising there from
during the contract period under the supervision of the successful tenderer/bidder
in so far as the latter isresponsible.

C.41 Mobilization advance: Not Applicable.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

ADy ¥


--- Page 13 ---
Page 13 of 56

 

ontractors who fulfil the followine requirements shall ONLY alified for financial
bid opening:

1. Work Experience: The bidders having experience of successfully completed DG
Set AMC works during the last 3 years ending last day of the month previous to
the one in which applications are invited. The works completed up to previous
day of last date of submission of tenders shall also be considered.

2, Annual Financial Turnover: The Turnover certificate from CA (chartered
accountant) for three years showing annual turnover which should not be less
than Rs, 25 Lakhs in average. As per Annexure-2 Scanned copy of certificate
from chartered accountant to be uploaded

3. Self declaration by bidder that they have not been blacklisted by any
Ministry/Department/Govt. organization of Central/State or any Public sector
organization or there is no litigation with any organization on account of
similar type of services as per Annexure-3.

4. Self declaration by bidder that no Judicial case is pending in court of law
against firm as per Annexure-3.

5. Duly signed declaration regarding acceptance of terms and conditions of the
tender by bidder as per Annexure-4.

6. Previous experience for last 3 years & work in hand. (Specific work completion
certificate with satisfaction & work orders shall be produced.)

7, Personal and Bank details of bidder as per Annxure-5.

8. Certificate from the Manufacturer of DG sets, certifying the bidder as the
authorized representative / Dealer / Vendor of the Manufacturer.

9. Certificates: (scanned copy of original certificates to be uploaded)

A. Copy of Certification of Incorporation/ Registration of firm

B. PAN (Permanent Account Number)

C. GST (Goods & Service Tax) Registration Certificate

D. E-payment details towards cost of tender processing fee & EMD.
Contractor For and on behalf of NiT Agartata

R

 


--- Page 14 ---
Page 14 of 56

 

While submitting bid, the Scanned copies of the following original
certificates are to be uploaded:

i) Certificates of Work Experience: Work Orders along with Completion
Certificates issued’ by any officer of the Department.

ii) Certification of Registration of firm / company

iii) CA Certificate for Annual Financial Turnover for the FY 21-22, 22-23, 23-24.
iv) PAN (Permanent Account Number}

v) GST (Goods & Services Tax) Registration Certificate

vi) - Bank Account Detail.

vii) EPF & ESIC registration certificates

viii) E-payment details towards cost of tender processing fee & EMD

ix) Aadhaar card copy of the authorized officer of the company/firm
who will be signing agreement etc.

x) Undertaking having gone through the documents as per the Annexure-1.
xi) Any other document that bidder felt necessary in support of his candidature.

xii) Schedule of Price Bid in the form of BoQ_.xls

 

Agartala, Decision in this regard will be governed by the competent authority
of NIT Agartala which shall be final and binding to the contractor.

  
 

  

og: tee ace Pe : ean

per the Fire Safety codes of the CPWD to the extent applicable
to the NIT Agartala. Decision in this regard will be governed by the competent
authority of NIT Agartala which shall be final and binding to the contractor.

 

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 15 ---
Page 15 of 56

 

 

 

 

| Form of Performance Security (Guarantee) Bank Guarantee Bond |

 

 

 

In consideration of the Director, NIT Agartala (hereinafter called “The NIT
Agartala”) having offered to accept the terms and conditions of the proposed
ASTEEMENT DECWEEN.......ccsscsenserorsssecceveesers PING ccomnicessrecnarsinnmniarere (hereinafter called
“the said Contractor(s)”) for the WOrk..cssssescsssssscscssccosscsssseesessscesssnecesecccsseeses
(hereinafter called “the said agreement”) having agreed to production of an
irrevocable Bank

Guarantee for RS. .......000 (RUPCES........ccescnevcssuevenves only) as a
security/guarantee from the contractor(s) for compliance of his obligations

in accordance with the terms and conditions in the said agreement.

te “Wy werusrcumssssearresiniiees (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank”) hereby
undertake to pay to the NIT Agartalaan amount not exceeding Rs.
arenkans oman veceninenaxenite . (Rupees............. Only) on demand by the NIT Agartala.

Di WR: secssasssreascescsssimiciitiears (indicate the name of the Bank) do hereby

undertake to pay the amounts due and payable under this guarantee without
any demure, merely on a demand from the NIT Agartala stating that the
amount claimed as required to meet the recoveries due or likely to be due
from the said contractor(s). Any such demand made on the bank shall be
conclusive as regards the amount due and payable by the bank under this
Guarantee. However, our liability under this guarantee shall be restricted to
an amount not Exceeding RS.......ssecssseseeees (Rupeesonly)

3. We, the said bank further undertake to pay the NIT Agartala any money
so demanded notwithstanding any dispute or disputes raised by the
contractor(s) in any suit or proceeding pending before any court or Tribunal
relating thereto, our liability under this present being absolute and
unequivocal. The payment so made by us under this bond shall be a valid
discharge of our liability for payment thereunder and the Contractor(s) shall
have no claim against us for making such payment.

4. We, cu esssssssceevesccertsessoncessas {indicate the name of the Bank) further agree
that the guarantee herein contained shall remain in full force and effect
during the period that would be taken for the performance of the said
agreement and that it shall continue to be enforceable till all the dues of the
NIT Agartala under or by virtue of the said agreement have been fully paid
and its claims satisfied or discharged or till Engineer-in- Charge on behalf of

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

ay ©


--- Page 16 ---
Page 16 of 56

the NIT Agartala certified that the terms and conditions of the said
agreement have been fully and properly carried out by the said Contractor(s)
and accordingly discharges this guarantee.

DS. WO, veesecessescnscersenseeeravcentacs (indicate the name of the Bank) further agree
with the NIT Agartala that the NIT Agartala shall have the fullest liberty
without our consent and without affecting in any manner our obligation
hereunder to vary any of the terms and conditions of the said agreement or
to extend time of performance by the said Contractor(s) from time to time or
to postpone for any time or from time to time any of the powers exercisable
by the NIT Agartala against the said contractor(s) and to forbear or enforce
any of the terms and conditions relating to the said agreement and we shall
not be relieved from our liability by reason of any such variation, or extension
being granted to the said Contractor(s) or for any forbearance, act of
omission on the part of the NIT Agartala or any indulgence by the NIT
Agartala to the said Contractor(s) or by any such matter or thing whatsoever
which under the law relating to sureties would, but for this provision, have
effect of so relieving us.

6. This guarantee will not be discharged due to the change in the
constitution of the Bank or the Contractor(s).

Bo WE pssasmsssonmespreseeawes (indicate the name of the Bank) lastly undertake

not to revoke this guarantee except with the previous consent of the NIT
Agartala in writing.

8. This guarantee shall be valid UP tO woscccescceccesnecsceees unless extended on
demand by the NIT Agartala. Notwithstanding anything mentioned above, our
liability against this guarantee is restricted to RS... (Rupees ........00608- )

and unless a claim in writing is lodged with us within six months of the date of
expiry or the extended date of expiry of this guarantee all our liabilities under

this guarantee shall stand discharged. Dated the.............. day of
Stiebiin dean ticceaneins TOF .....sseeseeee. (indicate the name of the Bank).
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

MA, KE

v


--- Page 17 ---
Page 17 of 56

 

INTEGRITY PACT

SPACE Re POT ETE TTT RER RDS CeaE Es &

Sub; DNleT No.: 124/NITA/Estate Elect./2023-24 for the work of
“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 06 (Six) numbers of Diesel
Generator Sets at NIT Agartala campus”

Dear Sir,

it is here by declared that NIT Agartala is committed to follow the principle of
transparency, equity and competitiveness in public procurement. The subject
Notice Inviting e-Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made on the condition
that the Bidder will sign the integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of
tender/bid documents, failing which the tenderer/bidder will stand disqualified
from the tendering process and the bid of the bidder would be summarily
rejected.

This declaration shall form part and parcel of the Integrity Agreement and signing
of the same shall be deemed as acceptance and signing of the Integrity
Agreement on behalf of the NIT Agartala.

Yours faithfully

Registrar, NIT Agartala

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

faa y ©


--- Page 18 ---
Page 18 of 56

Letter of Transmittal

To,
The Registrar
NIT Agartala,

Sub: DNleT No.: 124/NITA/Estate Elect./2023-24 for the work of
“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 06 (Six) numbers of Diesel
Generator Sets at NIT Agartala campus”

Dear Sir,

I/We acknowledge that NIT Agartala is committed to follow the principles
thereof as enumerated in the Integrity Agreement enclosed with the tender/bid
document,

I/We agree that the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made
on the condition that I/We will sign the enclosed integrity Agreement, which is
an integral part of tender documents, failing which I/We will stand disqualified
from the tendering process. I/We acknowledge that THE MAKING OF THE BID
SHALL BE REGARDED AS AN UNCONDITIONAL AND ABSOLUTE ACCEPTANCE of this
condition of the NIT.

I/We confirm acceptance and compliance with the Integrity Agreement in letter
and spirit and further agree that execution of the said Integrity Agreement shall
be separate and distinct from the main contract, which will come into existence
when tender/bid is finally accepted by NIT Agartala. [/We acknowledge and
accept the duration of the Integrity Agreement, which shall be in the line with
Article 1 of the enclosed Integrity Agreement.

I/We acknowledge that in the event of my/our failure to sign and accept the
Integrity Agreement, while submitting the tender/bid, NIT Agartala shall have
unqualified, absolute and unfettered right to disqualify the tenderer/bidder and

reject the tender/bid is accordance with terms and conditions of the tender/ °
bid,

Yours faithfully

(Duly authorized signatory of the Bidder)

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

wi #


--- Page 19 ---
Page 19 of 56

INTEGRITY AGREEMENT
This Integrity Agreement is made at ............... OM ENSvce scence day of .........5.
2024
BETWEEN

The Director, NIT Agartala represented through Registrar, NIT Agartala,
(Principal /Owner)

aaa le el ee ee ee ee ee ee

(Hereinafter referred to as the (Details of duly authorized signatory)
“Bidder/Contractor” and which expression shall unless repugnant to the
meaning or context hereof include its successors and permitted assigns)

Preamble

WHEREAS the Principal /Owner has floated the Tender vide DNleT No.:
124/NITA/Estate Elect./2023-24 (Hereinafter referred to as “Tender/Bid”)
and intends to award, under laid down organizational procedure, contract for
“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 06 (Six) numbers of Diesel
Generator Sets at NIT Agartala campus” hereinafter referred to as the
“Contract”.

AND WHEREAS the Principal/Owner values full compliance with all relevant laws
of the land, rules, regulations, economic use of resources and of
fairness/transparency in its relation with its Bidder(s) and Contractor(s).

AND WHEREAS to meet the purpose aforesaid both the parties have agreed to
enter into this Integrity Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “Integrity Pact”
or “Pact”), the terms and conditions of which shall also be read as integral part
and parcel of the Tender/Bid documents and Contract between the parties.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of mutual covenants contained in this Pact,
the parties hereby agree as follows and this Pact witnesses as under:

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 20 ---
Page 20 of 56

Article 1: Commitment of the Principal/Owner

(1) The Principal/Owner commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent
corruption and to observe the following principles:

(a) No employee of the Principal/Owner, personally or through any of
his/her family members, will in connection with the Tender, or the execution of
the Contract, demand, take a promise for or accept, for self or third person, any
material or immaterial benefit which the person is not legally entitled to.

(b) The Principal/Owner will, during the Tender process, treat atl Bidder(s)
with equity and reason. The Principal/Owner will, in particular, before and
during the Tender process, provide to all Bidder(s) the same information and will
not provide to any Bidder(s) confidential / additional information through which
the Bidder(s) could obtain an advantage in relation to the Tender process or the
Contract execution.

(c} The Principal/Owner shall endeavour to exclude from the Tender process
any person, whose conduct in the past has been of biased nature.

(2) If the Principal/Owner obtains information on the conduct’ of any of its
employees which is a criminal offence under the Indian Penal code
(IPC)/Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (PC Act) or is in violation of the
principles herein mentioned or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard,
the Principal/Owner will inform the Chief Vigilance Officer and in addition can
also initiate disciplinary actions as per its internal laid down policies and
procedures.

Article 2: Commitment of the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)

(1) It is required that each Bidder/Contractor (including their respective
officers, employees and agents) adhere to the highest ethical standards, and
report to the NIT Agartala / Department all suspected acts of fraud or
corruption or Coercion or Collusion of which it has knowledge or becomes aware,
during the tendering process and throughout the negotiation or award of a
contract.

Q) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) commits himself to take all measures
necessary to prevent corruption. He commits himself to observe the following
principles during his participation in the Tender process and during the Contract
execution:

(a) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other
person or firm, offer, promise or give to any of the Principal/Owner’s em ployees
involved in the Tender process or execution of the Contract or to any third person

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

me. x

 


--- Page 21 ---
Page 21 of 56

any material or other benefit which he/she is not legally entitled to, in orderto
obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever during the Tender
process or during the execution of the Contract.

(b) The Bidder(s}/Contractor(s) will not enter with other Bidder(s) into any
undisclosed agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal. This
applies in particular to prices, specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts,
submission or non-submission of bids or any other actions to restrict
competitiveness or to cartelize in the bidding process.

(c) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not commit any offence under the
relevant IPC/PC Act. Further the Bidder(s)/ Contract(s) will not use improperly,
(for the purpose of competition or personal gain), or pass on to others, any
information or documents provided by the Principal/Owner as part of the
business relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals and business details,
including information contained or transmitted electronically. (d) The
Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of foreign origin shall disclose the names and addresses
of agents/ representatives in India, if any. Similarly Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of
Indian Nationality shall disclose names and addresses of foreign
agents/representatives, if any. Either the Indian agent on behalf of the foreign
principal or the foreign principal directly could bid in a tender but not both.
Further, in cases where an agent participate in a tender on behalf of one
manufacturer, he shall not be allowed to quote on behalf of another
manufacturer along with the first manufacturer in a subsequent/ parallel tender
for the same item.

(d) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will, when presenting his bid, disclose any
and all payments he has made, is committed to or intends to make to agents,
brokers or any other intermediaries in connection with the award of the
Contract.

(3) The Bidder(s}/Contractor(s) will not instigate third persons to commit
offences outlined above or be an accessory to such offences.

(4) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other
person or firm indulge in fraudulent practice means a willful misrepresentation
or omission of facts or submission of fake/forged documents in order to induce
public official to act in reliance thereof, with the purpose of obtaining unjust
advantage by or causing damage to justified interest of others and/or to
influence the procurement process to the detriment of the NIT Agartala
interests.

6) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other
person or firm use Coercive Practices (means the act of obtaining something,
compelling an action or influencing a decision through intimidation, threat or the
use of force directly or indirectly, where potential or actual injury may befail

Contractor For and on Benen of NIT Agartala

my &


--- Page 22 ---
Page 22 of 56

upon a person, his/her reputation or property to influence their participation in
the tendering process).

Article 3: Consequences of Breach

Without prejudice to any rights that may be available to the Principal/Owner
under law or the Contract or its established policies and laid down procedures,
the Principal/Owner shall have the following rights in case of breach of this
Integrity Pact by the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) and the Bidder/ Contractor accepts
and undertakes to respect and uphold the Principal/Owner’s absolute right:

(1) If the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s), either before award or during execution of
Contract has committed a transgression through a violation of Article 2 above or
in any other form, such as to put his reliability or credibility in question, the
Principal/Owner after giving 14 days notice to the contractor shall have powers
to disqualify the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) from the Tender Process or
terminate/determine the Contract, if already executed or exclude the
Bidder/Contractor from future contract award processes. The imposition and
duration of the exclusion will be determined by the severity of transgression and
determined by the Principal/Owner. Such exclusion may be forever or for a
limited period as decided by the Principal/Owner.

(2) Forfeiture of EMD/Performance Guarantee/ Security Deposit: If the
Principal/Owner has disqualified the Bidder(s) from the Tender process prior to
the award of the Contract or terminated/determined the Contract or has accrued
the right to terminate/determine the Contract according to Article 3(1), the
Principal/Owner apart from exercising any legal rights that may have accrued to
the Principal/Owner, may in its considered opinion forfeit the entire amount of
Earnest Money Deposit, Performance Guarantee and Security Deposit of the
Bidder /Contractor,

(3) Criminal Liability: If the Principal/Owner obtains knowledge of conduct
of a Bidder or Contractor, or of an employee or a representative or an associate
of a Bidder or Contractor which constitutes corruption within the meaning of IPC
Act, or if the Principal/Owner has substantive Suspicion in this regard, the
Principal/Owner wilt inform the same to law enforcing agencies for further
investigation.

Article 4; Previous Transgression

(1) The Bidder declares that no previous transgressions occurred in the last
3 years with any other Company in any country confirming to the anticorruption
approach or with Central Government or State Government or any other
Central/State Public Sector Enterprises in India that could justify his exclusion
from the Tender process.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

MO, &


--- Page 23 ---
Page 23 of 56

(2) if the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be
disqualified from the Tender process or action can be taken for banning of
business dealings/ hotiday listing of the Bidder/Contractor as deemed fit by the
Principal/ Owner.

(3) If the Bidder/Contractor can prove that he has resorted / recouped the
damage caused by him and has installed a suitable corruption prevention system,
the Principal/Owner may, at its own discretion, revoke the exclusion
prematurely.

Article 5: Equal Treatment of all Bidders/Contractors/Subcontractors

(1) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) undertake(s) to demand from allt
subcontractors a commitment in conformity with this Integrity Pact. The
Bidder/Contractor shall be responsible for any violation(s) of the principles laid
down in this agreement/Pact by any of its Subcontractors/sub-vendors.

(2) The Principal/Owner will enter into Pacts on identical terms as this one
with all Bidders and Contractors.

(3) The Principal/Owner will disqualify Bidders, who do not submit, the duly
signed Pact between the Principal/ Owner and the bidder, along with the Tender
or violate its provisions at any stage of the Tender process, from the Tender
process.

Article 6- Duration of the Pact

This Pact begins when both the parties have legally signed it. It expires for the
Contractor/Vendor 12 months after the completion of work under the contract
or till the continuation of defect liability period, whichever is more and for all
other bidders, till the Contract has been awarded. If any claim is made/lodged
during the time, the same shall be binding and continue to be valid despite the
lapse of this Pacts as specified above, unless it is discharged/determined bythe
Competent Authority, NIT Agartala.

Article 7- Other Provisions
(1) This Pact is subject to Indian Law, place of performance and jurisdiction
is the Headquarters of the Division of the Principal/Owner, who has floated the

Tender.

(2) Changes and supplements need to be made in writing. Side agreements
have not been made.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

{SS Gy KK


--- Page 24 ---
Page 24 of 56

(3) If the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this Pact must be
signed by all the partners or by one or more partner holding power of attorney
signed by all partners and consortium members. In case of a Company, the Pact
must be signed by a representative duly authorized by board resolution.

(4) Should one or several provisions of this Pact turn out to be invalid; the
remainder of this Pact remains valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come
to an agreement to their original intensions.

(5) It is agreed term and condition that any dispute or difference arising
between the parties with regard to the terms of this Integrity Agreement / Pact,
any action taken by the Owner/Principal in accordance with this Integrity
Agreement/ Pact or interpretation thereof shall not be subject to arbitration.

Article 8- LEGAL AND PRIOR RIGHTS

All rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be in addition to all theother
legal rights and remedies belonging to such parties under the Contract and/or
law and the same shall be deemed to be cumulative and not alternative to such
legal rights and remedies aforesaid. For the sake of brevity, both the Parties
agree that this Integrity Pact will have precedence over the Tender/Contact
documents with regard any of the provisions covered under this Integrity Pact.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed and executed this Integrity Pact at
the place and date first above mentioned in the presence of followi ng witnesses:

TPR R ORR eee ee

SOC eee Re ERR PT Te ee

(For and on behalf of Bidder/Contractor)

WITNESSES:

(Signature, name and address)

Place:
Dated:

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Oy &


--- Page 25 ---
Page 25 of 56

 

AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT made on the day of _ 2024
between NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA (hereinafter called "The NIT
AGARTALA" which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or meaning
thereof, include its administrators, successors and assigns) of the one part
AND (herein
after called "The Contractor” which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or
meaning thereof, include its successors and permitted assigns) of the other part.

WHEREAS

The NIT AGARTALA is desirous of carrying out the work of “Comprehensive Annual
Maintenance Contract for 06 (Six) numbers of Diesel Generator Sets at NIT Agartala
campus”

The Works are to be executed as per the schedules mentioned in tender document and
specifications describing the works to be done.

The Contractor has agreed to execute the said works subject to the provisions hereinafter
contained and subject also to General Conditions of Contract, Special conditions of
contract, Safety Code, Model Rules for the protection of health and sanitary
arrangements for workers, Specifications, Preambles and Schedule of Quantities and
installation schedule (all of which are hereinafter collectively referred to as the ‘said
tender conditions’) and strictly in accordance with the Scope of work annexed hereto at
or for the respective rates set out in the Schedule of Quantities amounting to the sum as
there under arrived at or such other sums as shall become payable there under
(hereinafter referred to as the said tendered amount).

NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS: -

1. In consideration of the said tendered amount to be paid by The NIT AGARTALA to
the Contractor at the time and in the manner set forth in the said tender
conditions and in accordance with the Schedule of Payments to execute and
complete the work shown strictly in accordance with the specifications, scope of
work and Schedule of Quantities.

2. The said tender conditions, scope of work and the annexures hereto shall be read
and considered as forming part of this contract and the parties hereto shail
respectfully abide by to the said conditions and perform the agreement on their
part respectively contained in the said conditions.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 26 ---
10,

11.

Page 26 of 56

The approved drawings if any, notice inviting tenders technical specification etc.
shall also form the basis of this contract.

This contract is neither a Lump sum Contract, nor a piece work contract, but is a
Annual maintenance contract to be carried out and to be paid for according to the
Schedule of Payments at the rates contained.

The contract herein contained shall comprise not only the works mentioned above
but all subsidiary works connected therewith within the same site as may be ordered
to be done from time to time by the said Engineer In charge for the time being,
even if such work may not be shown on the said Drawings or described in the said
Specifications and Schedule of Quantities.

The NIT AGARTALA reserves to themselves the right of altering the specifications
and the nature of the work by adding to or omitting from the scope of work any
item of work or portions of the same without prejudice to this contract.

Time shall be considered as the essence of this contract and the Contractor hereby
agrees to commence the work within 07 days from the date of work order or from
the date of handing over of the site, as provided for in the said terms and conditions,
whichever is later, and shall complete the entire work within the‘specified period,
subject nevertheless the provisions for extension of time as may be agreed to by
the NIT AGARTALA and as contained in the said conditions.

All payments by the NIT AGARTALA under this contract shall be made only at Indore.

All disputes arising out of or in any way connected with this contract shall be
deemed to have arisen at Indore and courts in Indore only shall have jurisdiction to
determine the same.

That the contract and several parts of this contract have been read by the
contractor and fully understood by him. The contractor shall not be entitled for
payment beyond tendered quantities & scope of work as specified unless ordered
specifically by written instructions of competent authority of NIT AGARTALA.

This contract shall be signed in duplicate, the original whereof shall be kept in the
custody of the NIT AGARTALA, and the duplicate with the Contractor.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the NIT AGARTALA has set his hands hereunto and two duplicates
hereof through his duly authorized official and the Contractor has caused these presents
and two duplicates hereof under his common seal by his duly authorized representative
at the place and on the date month and year first herein above written.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 27 ---
Page 27 of 56

SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED by NIT AGARTALA, by the hand of

Signature:
Name:
Designation: Registrar, NIT Agartala

IN THE PRESENCE OF

(1) Signature:
Name:
Address:

(2) Signature:
Name:
Address:

SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED BY the Contractor M/s.

Signature:
Name:
Designation:

iN THE PRESENCE OF
(1) Signature:
Name:
Address:

(2) Signature:

Name:
Address:

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

MG &


--- Page 28 ---
Page 28 of 56

 

This will be as per the General Conditions of Contract (GCC) of the CPWD to the
extent applicable to the NIT Agartala. Decision in this regard will be governed by
the competent authority of NIT Agartala which shali be final and binding to the
contractor.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 29 ---
Page 29 of 56

 

Scope of Work:
a. The contract is Initially for a period of 3 (Three) Years and it will be
extended to 4" & 5™ year based on the satisfactory performance and as
per the same contract rate subject to approval of the authority.

b. CAMC Contract may be terminated by NIT Agartala at its discretion by
giving 30 days’ notice to the service provider in case of failure to
maintain the AMC services at the satisfaction of the NIT Agartala and the
agreement with NIT Agartala in that case will be treated as cancelled
before expiry date of notice and the contract.

c. This Comprehensive Annual Maintenance contract is for the entire
Generator set including Generator, i.e. Oil Engines, Alternator, Battery,
Electric Panels (AMF & Change over panel), LT breakers etc. collectively
called Generator/equipment installed in NIT Agartala and will include
attending to all complaints received from users for proper working of
equipment/machinery as and when required. CAMC includes
monthly/quarterly/hatf-yearly/yearly visit as preventive maintenance.
For breakdown or corrective maintenance shalt be done. as and when
required as soon as complaint informed on phone or by any other way.

d. The entire Diesel Generator set system including electrical and
mechanical system (inside and outside) with LT breakers should be
under the CAMC.

e. This Annual maintenance contract is on site Comprehensive as may be
decided by NIT Agartala and inclusive of preventive, as well as
corrective maintenance of the Generators, as mentioned in above. The
spare parts of the generators / consumable material which are to be
replaced shall be of genuine make and of same company of the
generator.

f. This contract is for comprehensive maintenance of Diesel Generator
sets, which are installed in NIT Agartala and inciudes supplying and
replacement of all Spares, as per requirement. The spare parts of the
DG Sets, which are to be supplied and replaced shall be of genuine
make/O.E.M. & of same company of the equipment as far as possible,
Agency has to provide and maintain the refrigerant of appropriate make
and type in the compressor of DG Sets which shall be to the satisfaction
of Engineer-In-Charge / Competent authority of NIT Agartala. All work
shall be done to the satisfaction of Engineer In charge.

g. All kinds of spare parts and material needed to repair all DG Sets should
be kept in storage in advance so that the services should not be

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

AG &


--- Page 30 ---
Page 30 of 56

hampered. Machineries cannot be taken out of NIT Agartala campus due
to any internal repair or for any reason without permission of office /
authority.

h. You shail not engage any sub-agent or sub-contractor whatsoever for
running the CAMC Service.

i. The contract for running the CAMC Service shall be commercial contract
and between NIT Agartala & contractor. There shall be no employer-
employees relationship between NIT Agartala and the contractor and/his
personnel.

j. The CAMC is of Comprehensive type. Any replacement of spares should
be with new and of equivalent type or higher of same make.

k. Monthly routine maintenance and checkup to be carried out for the
machine, controls, ropes, breaks, control cables, batteries and other
mechanical and electrical parts and appliances.

|. Repair and /or replacement of the worn-out parts related to D.G Sets at
his own cost for ensuring smooth service.

m. All the replaced parts shall conform to relevant |.S. codes or D.G Sets Act
and rules made there under.

n. The technicians of Agency should submit monthly service report duly
signed by DG Set technician with all detailed repaired work/repair
status, in prescribed format with signature of concerned user where the
repair & maintenance work has been carried out. The agency will keep
the maintenance registers as directed by the NIT Agartala to monitor
day-to-day work of the agency. Same shall be certified by Engineer In
charge and it has to be enclosed with the Half Yearly bills raised.

o. The conditions given in this chapter deal with the special conditions for
the work of Annual Maintenance of the D.G. Set, viz. preventive
maintenance, specific maintenance, break- down repairs and upkeep of
the complete 0.G. Set including A.C. alternator and control panel. It
also includes all fitments, which are necessary for the operation of the
set like pipeline, gauges, meters, starters switches etc. The scope of
work will also cover the replacement of Fuel filters, Lube Oil filters and
Gasket Rocker Cover during every half yearly schedule. The cost of
these three items would not be paid extra against the cost of spare
parts.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 31 ---
Page 31 of 56

Preventive maintenance to be carried out monthly

(i). Cleaning, dusting, of D.G. Set including motor starters, control panels
etc.

{ii}. Repairing of leakage if any.

(iii). Checking of V-Belts tensions and tightness of nuts and bolts.

(iv). Checking of coupling, rubber bushes of pumps.

(v). Checking, replacement of ail valve for proper operation and for avoid of
leakage.

(vi). Checking of rubber seal, gasket and hosepipes and their replacement if
required.

(vii). Checking of coupling disk on fuel injection pumps.

(viii). Checking and setting the injectors.
(ix). Checking and replacing high-pressure fuel

pipe line.
(x). Checking and adjusting the valve timing and tappet.
(xi). Check and clean the blower and tube oil cooler.

(xii). Checking of batteries. Toppings up of the batteries with distill
water/electrolyte. External charging of batteries, repairing of
batteries.

(xiii). Checking and servicing of starter {cranking motor) and battery

charging alternator.
(xiv). Checking and tightening of foundation bolts of engine and alternator.
(xv). Checking of output voltage and current on load.

Preventive maintenance to be carried out quarterly

(i) All items that are covered under monthly schedule.

(ii) Checking of all safety controls operation and also the set points of all
controls such as temperature alarm and trip, high and low pressure alarm
and trip, earth fault relay, thermostats, and over load relay.

(ili) Complete checking and repairing or replacement of spares as and when

required in addition to checking and repairing of the tank.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

MA, a


--- Page 32 ---
Pape 32 of 56

(iv) Checking, repairing/replacement of all indicating lights, voltmeter,
ammeter, battery charging meters for its proper operation.

(v) Checking of control panel, checking and changing of MCB, time relays.
(vi). Checking of under slung HSD oil D.G Seting pump and repairing if
required.

(vii). Checking of turbocharger and repairing if required.

Preventive maintenance to be carried out half yearly

{i}. All items that are covered under monthly and quarterly schedule.

(ii). Insulation test for generator, motor and starter.

(ili). Greasing of generator.

(iv). Replacement of fuel filter

(v}. Changing of engine oil.

(vi). Replacement of Lube Oil oil filters.

(vit). Replacement of Gasket Rocker Cover.

(viii). Removing of sump bottom cover and cleaning of the lube oil suction
drain.

(ix). Checking and re-adjustment of tappet clearances.

(x). Checking of speed governor and engine shut down for proper
functioning.

(xi). Checking of all items covered under monthly and quarterly schedule.
(xii). Checking of carbon brushes, slip rings, diodes and regulator.

Replacement of same if required.

Preventive maintenance to be carried out once a year

 

(i). All items that are covered under monthly, quarterly and half yearly
schedule.
(ii). Alignment of engine and alternator with foundation.

(iii). Checking of V-belt and its pulley including replacement if required.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 33 ---
Page 33 of 56

(iv). Checking of flexible and rubber engine mount. Replacement if
required.

(v). Checking of injector.

(vi). Checking/replacement of fuel filter element.

(vii). Checking of fuel injection pump.

(viii). Checking of monitoring functions.

(ix). Checking of compression pressure.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 34 ---
Page 34 of 56

(x). Checking of all nuts and bolts for the specific torque.
(xi). Removal and cleaning of exhaust piping.

(xii) Cleaning of complete engine.

(xiii) Checking of crank case ventilation and breather.
(xiv). Checking and cleaning of inlet duct.

(v) Checking and repair of fly wheel, rings.

(vi) Supply of all spares required for the above works.

(xvii). Cleaning of HSD oil tank.

Any other work that may be required for the proper functioning of the D.G. Set and
its associated equipment shall be carried out by the contractor whether listed herein

or otherwise.

After every schedule, the following items shall be checked to avoid major failure
(i} Loss of power.

(ii) Heavy smoke.

(iii). Low oil pressure.

(iv). High oil temperature.

(v). High engine temperature.

(vi). Unusual noise and vibration.

(vii). Starting problem.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala
Fre Ly ¥

VY


--- Page 35 ---
Page 35 of 56

Special Conditions of Contract:

a.

L.

Details of monthly scheduled maintenance/break down shall be entered in the
register/service slip & jointly signed by the firm’s representative and NIT
Agartala representative.

. Contractor will have to make minimum 12 visits (01 visit per month) during the

CAMC period. Beside this, any number of breakdown calls will have to be
attended. The response time for such breakdown calls shall not exceeds 12
hours. Beyond this penalty shall be imposed as per penalty clause.

. Contractor’s mechanic/engineer shall reach to the site within 12 hour after

lodging a complaint. Delay in reporting period shall be recorded and penalty shall
be imposed at the rate of Rs. 1000/- per day per D.G Set.

- Contractor will have to take necessary care and precaution to keep the DG Set

safe for use and in good working condition. Trained technical staff shall carry out
maintenance work.

. Contractor will have to carry out all customary safety tests to examine all safety

devices.

As the contract is comprehensive in nature, no payment will be rhade as an extra
for replacement of spare parts etc.

- No parts or components of the DG Sets being maintained by contractor shall be

removed without prior approval and knowledge of NIT Agartala. Any part to be
removed from the D.G Set for repair shall be done after approval of the
nominated engineer/ supervisor.

. Any damage to NIT Agartala property while carrying out periodical maintenance

and attending break down will be contractors’ responsibility.

Thorough cleaning of machine room, controt panel machine unit & hoist way with
D.G Set car and pit shall be done once in a month, which will be certified by NIT
Agartala representative.

- Contractor shall not only attend the failure but also rectify the cause of failure

after investigation.

Penalty imposed for late reporting, late replacement of defective parts and Down
time of D.G Set shall be deducted from monthly bill of the firm. AMC bill shall
be paid after six month. No advance payment will be paid,

There should be a service centre in Tripura.

m. All payments shall be made in indian currency. The payment will be released on
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Joa ~y x


--- Page 36 ---
Page 36 of 56

Half Yearly basis after ascertaining that the service is rendered satisfactorily. The
preventive and corrective maintenance service report has to be submitted with bill.
The reports of periodic maintenance and breakdown maintenance shall be signed by
Junior Engineer (Elect.).

n. Annexure 6 to 10 should be submitted with each & every running bills.

o. The total value (BOQ) is inclusive of GST as applicable.

p. Cancellation of Contract

In cases of poor workmanship and non-compliance of tender/agreement or services
provided by the contractor are not found to be satisfactory, the contract shall be
terminated by the department by giving 10 days notice even before the expiry of
contract period and shall be forfeited the security deposit/EMD etc. without assigning
any reason what so ever.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

A


--- Page 37 ---
Page 37 of 56

Equipment Description:

The following 06 numbers of DG Set will be covered under this agreement:

 

 

 

  
   
  
 
  
 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to Technical Location Make & Model Quantity
No, Specification
500 KVA Near Auditorium,
Near Science ; 3 Nos.
| D.G Set Block, Near Dhalai Volvo-Penta
Hostel
250 KVA
2 R.N.T Hostel Cummins 1 No.
D.G Set
200 KVA
3 R.N.T Hostel Cummins 1 No,
D.G Set
160 KVA
4 Sports Complex Cummins 1 No.
D.G Set

 

 

Term and Price:

a. The NIT Agartala shall pay the Contractor the specified amount on Half Yearly
basis for the work performed during that period on presentation of an approved
invoice by the Contractor. No advance payment will be made in any case. Taxes
will be deducted from the bill as applicable.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

OG


--- Page 38 ---
Page 38 of 56

Termination of Agreement:

a. Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving the other party not less than
thirty (30) days written notice.

Contractor to comply with laws:

a. In the performance of this Contract, the Contractor shall abide by all existing laws,
codes, rules and regulations set forth by all governmental units and authorities
having competent jurisdiction over Contractor and/or the work performed by
Contractor hereunder. Contractor shall also procure and pay any necessary
permits or licenses pertaining to the work performed by Contractor pursuant to
this Contract.

b. All repair, parts replacement or adjustments called for hereunder shail be
performed in full compliance with specified laws, standards and codes set by the
government with latest edition, including amendments thereto, and with
applicable regulations of the state, city and/or local authorities. In case of
conflict, the more stringent regulations will apply.

Warranty:

Contractor warrants that the D.G. Set maintenance services will be provided to
the NIT Agartala in accordance with the terms of this Contract and with
prevailing industry standards for D.G. Set maintenance services. Contractor shall
use its best efforts under the circumstances to remedy any delays, interruptions,
omissions, mistakes, accidents or errors in Such services and restore any service
to compliance with the terms of this Contract.

Availability of Authorized Representative:

The contractor shall ensure availability of his authorized representative at NIT
Agartala to receive emergency calls and take remedial actions. The
representative should attend the call immediately to ensure the restoration of
the services promptly. !f shutdown of any D.G. Set continues for more than 12
hours a penalty of Rs. 1000/- per day per D.G. Set for delay beyond 12 hours shall
be imposed and the amount of penalty shall be recovered from the bills.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

OO ©


--- Page 39 ---
Page 39 of 56

Responsibility of Accident and hazards:

The contractor shall be responsible for any accident or hazard that take place
during the maintenance period due to negligence of work performed by the
agency. He shall atso be responsible for payment of compensation and penalties
payable to effected parties as a result of legal action. He shall also be
responsible for repairs and replacement of damaged parts of the D.G. Set and
restore services immediately failing which, a penalty @ Rs. 1000/- per day per
D.G Set shall be imposed and recovered from bills / deposit or any other sum due
to the contractor applicable maximum LD ceiling@10% of net contract value per
D,G. Set.

Spares & parts covered under CAMC:

The replacement of following spares shall be covered under the CAMC:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sl. | Item Sl. | Item SL Item
No. No. No.
1 CEMENT, LUB OIL 16 | FILTER INSERT 21 DINAMA FILTERING
2 17 | AIR FILTER 32 [PANEL BOARD
FILTER, FUEL ASTING
LL 3 | ELEMENT, AIR FILTER | 18 IC.R. BEARING 33 |ANAMOND
4

ELEMENT, FILTER 19 MAIN BEARING 34 PAINTING (MINOR)

 

 

 
   
 

> | RADIWASH 20 WozZLe 35 IpooR/ GATE LOCK

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 | INHIBITOR,CORROSION | 21 [ELEGENT 36 | EXHAUST BELOW

7 | BELT, V RIBBED 22 [D/ VALVE 37 | OIL FILTER

8 VALYOL INE PREMIUM | 23 bictron RING 38 | BY PASS FILTER
CARTRIDGE,LUB OIL 24 |MoBIL PUMP 39 | FUEL FILTER
FILTER

10 ALL ELECTRICAL
COOLANT BARTS

11 ALL MECHANICAL

  
  

DRY /WET BATTERES

12 | SEPARATOR, FUEL
WATER

13 | ELEMENT,AIR CLEANER| 28 DIESEL FILTER

PARTS

     

 

 

42

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

43

14 29 NUT & BOLTS 44
HEAD VALVE wssoreD sizes) | |

45

15 IHEAD GUIDE 30 | ENGINE OIL

 

 

 

 

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

AL ly, &


--- Page 40 ---
Page 40 of 56

Ail parts and components fitted by agency should be original parts or components. If
original parts or components are not available, the parts or components fitted will be of
equal quality and any defects in design, material or workmanship relating to parts and
components shall be limited to the replacement of spare parts or components as defined
by this article and which will be certified by the O.E.M.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Ag
v


--- Page 41 ---
Page 41 of 56

 

Annexure-1

Undertaking having gone through the documents as per the Technical bid

sub.: “Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 06 (Six) numbers of Diesel
Generator Sets at NIT Agartala campus”

DNleT No.: 124/NITA/Estate Elect. /2023-24

Dated: .....

To,

The Registrar,

NIT Agartala,

Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura - 799046.

Dear Sir,

We have carefully examined the specifications, design and schedule of quantities
relating to the work specified in the memorandum hereinafter set out and have visited and
examined the installation site of the works specified in the said memorandum and have
acquired the requisite information relating thereto as affecting the tender. We hereby
offer to execute the CAMC works specified in the said memorandum within the time
specified in the said memorandum at the rates mentioned in the Schedule of Quantities and
in accordance in all respects with specifications, designs and instructions in writing
referred to in articles of agreement, general instructions to the tenderers and special
conditions, General Conditions of Contract, conditions hereinbefore referred to,
specifications, schedule of works, data sheet and schedule of quantities and with such
materials as are provided for, by and in all other respects, in accordance with such
conditions so far as they may be applicable.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

JAG “y qr


--- Page 42 ---
Se epee ee ee

Page 42 of 56

Memorandum

A.1.1 |DNleT No.: 124/NITA/Estate Elect. /2023-24

 

“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance
A.1.2 |Name of Work Contract for 06 (Six) numbers of Diesel
Generator Sets at NIT Agartala campus.”

Rs. 81,400/- (Rupees Eighty One Thousand Four
Hundred Only) by e-payment through electronic
mode.

A.1.3 |Earnest Money Deposit
{Rs. )

 

 

Tender Processing Fee Rs. 1,500/- by e-payment through electronic

Aled (Rs.) mode (Non-Refundable)

 

Initially for a period of 3 (Three) Years and it
will be extended to 4" & 5'" year based on the
satisfactory performance and subject to approval
of the authority.

A.1.5 |Contract period

 

 

Mode of submission of
A.1.6 Tender On-Line mode only

 

2. We also agree that our tender will remain valid for acceptance by the NIT
Agartala for 180 days from the date of opening of technical bid of the tender
and this period of validity can be extended for such period as may be mutually
agreed between the NIT Agartala and us in writing, We also agree to keep the
Bank Guarantee towards earnest money valid during the entire period of
validity of tender and the extended period, if any, as per enclosed proforma.
Should this tender be accepted, we hereby agree to abide by and fulfil all the
terms and conditions of the contract and in default thereof, to forfeit Earnest
Money Deposit and pay to you or your successors, or assignees or nominees such
sums of money as are stipulated in the said conditions.

3. Should this tender be accepted, we hereby agree to abide by and fulfil all
the terms and conditions of the contract and in default thereof, to forfeit Earnest
Money Deposit and pay to you or your successors, or assignees or nominees such
sums of money as are stipulated in the said conditions.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 43 ---
Page 43 of S6

4. We understand that you reserve the right to accept or reject any or
all the tenders either in full or in part without assigning any reason
therefor.

Dated this day of 2024.

For and on behalf of M/s

(Signature with seal)
Name

Designation

Place

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Je (


--- Page 44 ---
Page 44 of 56

Annexure - 2
(To be scanned and uploaded)
(Printed on letter head of Chartered
Accountant)
Turnover Certificate

Name of the Company/Firm/Agency:

 

Address of the Company/Firm/Agency:

 

This is to certify that | have verified the annual turnover of the
Company/firm/Agency named above for business related to Comprehensive
Maintenance For Diesel Generator Set for The Years 2017- 2020 and it is as
mentioned below; and that it is correct.

 
   

    
   

 
 
      
   

Sr.
No.

Description

   
  

Financial Year Financial Year Financial Year
2021-22 2022-23 2023-24

Rs. (both, in figures | Rs. (both, in figures | Rs. (both, in figures
and words ) and words ) and words )

      

     

Annual Turnover

 

Place -
Date -
Name, Address, Signature and Seal of the Chartered
Accountant
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

f¥r— (  &
/


--- Page 45 ---
Page 45 of 56

Annexure-3

(To be scanned and uploaded) (Printed on
letterhead of firm/ company)

Self-Declaration regarding not being blacklisted

I Shri / Smt, Proprietor/ Director /
Authorised signatory of the Company/ firm/ Agency M/s

 

hereby declare that we are
not black-listed by any Central/State Government/Public Sector Undertaking or
any other organisation for Comprehensive Maintenance For Diesel Generator Set in
India or elsewhere.

 

We are not involved in any litigation that may have an impact on execution

of contract or may compromise the delivery of service as required under this
tender.

There is no Judicial case is pending in court of law against firm.

(Signature of Authorized Person)

Place:

Name

Date : Designation
Address:
Seal

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 46 ---
Page 46 of 56

Annexure-4
(To be scanned and uploaded) (Printed on
letterhead of firm/ company)

SELF DECLARATION

Declaration as regards acceptance of terms and conditions of contract

i. | Shri. /Smt. Proprietor / Director
/ authorized = signatory of the Company/Firm/Agency M/s
am competent to sign this declaration

and execute this tender document;

2. | have carefully read and understood all the terms and conditions of the
tender and undertake to abide by them;

3. The information/documents furnished along with the tender are true and
authentic to the best of my knowledge and belief. | / We, am / are well
aware of the fact that furnishing of any false information / fabricated
document would lead to rejection of my tender at any stage, besides the
liabilities towards prosecution under appropriate law.

(Signature of Authorized Person)

Place:
Name
Date : Designation
Address:
Seal
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

wn

Aa, i


--- Page 47 ---
Page 47 of 56

Annexure-5
(To be scanned and uploaded)

Personal & Bank Details for RTGS
All columns are mandatory

Sr .No, Personal Detail

Us NAME OF THE
COMPETENT PERSON &
AGENCY

ADDRESS OF THE
AGENCY
CONTACT DETAILS

 

 

      
  

 
 
  

 
 

 

 

  
      

 

 

 

 

1) LANDLINE NO. :
2) MOBILE NO.:
3) e-mail ID;

    
   
 
    
 
   
 
  
  
  

 

  
  

 

 

6. GST NO. -
Bank Details -
po NAME OF THE AGENCY
FOR ONLINE TRANSFER
NAME OF THE BANK
3. CITY OF THE BANK
7.

 

 

 

 
 

 

7
=

 

 

ACCOUNT TYPE
BRANCH CODE

|.

| 6.
ADDRESS OF THE
BRANCH

| 8

   

 

 

IFSC CODE

   

 

 

 

 

 

9.
(Signature of Authorized Person)
Place: Name
Date : Designation
Address:
Seal
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Oy ®


--- Page 48 ---
Page 48 of 56

Annexure -6

DESCRIPTION OF EQUIPMENT : D.G. SET

D.G. Set capacity

 

 

Details to be supplied before starting of work :

Name of the Agency
(with office address)

Name of Proprietor/ partner

 

Telephone Nos. of the firm
Name and address of the supervisor

24 Hrs. contact No.

 

 

Particulars of the License/ Registration

 

 

 

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Vv


--- Page 49 ---
Page 49 of 56

Annexure -7

 

 

COMPLAIN REGISTER (D.G. SET NO.......... )
Date & Date &
Sl. ne . Nature of Si Pare & of Time of Cause | Material | Signature of
No. Comolaint Complaint ron tainant attending | of Fault Used Firm’s
P P complaint Representative

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Firm’s Representative Junior Engineer

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

fAr— ( &

 


--- Page 50 ---
Page 50 of 56

Annexure -8
Programme for Periodical Maintenance for the Month of

Name of Firm:
D.G. Set No.:

Name of Site :

The firm shall see that the following work is carried out by an authorized
person appointed by him under these rules at least once in a month and the
result are recorded by such person in log book. ;

Nature of
Complaint (if
any)

Maintenance Type
(Monthly/ Quarterly/
Yearly)

Date & Time of
Complaint (if any)

 

Contractor For and on behalf of NiT Agartala

 


--- Page 51 ---
Page 51 of 56

Firm’s Representative Junior Engineer

Annexure -9

Actual for Periodical Maintenance carried out for the Month of

Name of Firm:

 

D.G. Set No.:

 

Name of Site:

 

 

SI Maintenance Type "Result
No (Monthly/ Quarterly/ Date & Time) (Satisfactory/
‘ Yearly)

Unsatisfactory)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Firm’s Representative Junior Engineer

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Gy


--- Page 52 ---
Page 52 of 56

Annexure -10

FAULT - FORMAT

D.G. Set No.
Date Time (of occurrence of Fault)
Date Time (of Reporting of Fault)

1. Fault Reported to : Technical support centre (Name of the person} on phone:

2. Mode of Reporting: Landline ( } Mobile( ) E-mail ( )

3. Description of fault & observation of the reporting officer.

4. Details of Services affected :

5. Date Time (of receiving the 1* assistance over phone
from Technical support centre)

6. Details of Assistance received:

(Note : Add additional sheet if needed)

7, Was the fault restored by following the instructions given over phone ?
A. YES B-NO (Tick whichever is applicable)

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Oy R


--- Page 53 ---
Page 53 of 56

8. If Yes, record the date & time of restoration & duration of fault :

Date Time (In hours & Minutes)

9. Duration of fault Days Hours Minutes

10. Was the fault restored ?

A. YES B-NO (Tick whichever is applicable)

11. If the fault is not restored or restored only partially, give details of observation :
(Note: add additional sheet if needed)

12. Note : Date & Time of giving feedback

Date Time {in hours & Minutes)

13. Date & Time of arrival of Firm’s Expert at site of Fault:

Date Time (In hours & Minutes)

14. Brief of observation and works done by the firm’s staff/ expert : (Detailed entry to
be made by firm’s staff in the Log-Book) :

15. Date & Time of complete restoration of system :

Date Time (In hours & Minutes}

16. Total duration of Fault : days hours minutes

 

17. Remarks of in charge (if any):

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 54 ---
Page 54 of 56

18. Remarks of visiting Engineer (of firm), if any:

Countersigned by Engineer-in-charge

Nore:
1. Each page of the Fault-Format must be signed by concerned staff.

2. A copy of the Fault-Format must be sent to the firm, immediately by E-Mail after
restoration of fault.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Jen X

Y


--- Page 55 ---
Page 55 of 56

 
    
 

 
 
  

 

 

 

ry g
SL Name of Description Remarks
No. Customer of wo Start | completion

  

  

Sign and Seal of Contractor

FORM-2

List of work related Equipment, Machinery and toois
tackles etc immediately available with the Bidder for
use on this work,

(On the letter head of the Contractor)

Function/Purpose

 
  

  

     

   

Sign and Seal of Contractor

FORM-3
Details of technical personnel with the bidder who will

be deployed forthis work
(On the letter head of the Contractor)
Whether Mode of Period for which
working employment & | the person is
in Field Experience working with the
or in

 

   

Sign and Seal of Contractor

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala
fs

 


--- Page 56 ---
Page 56 of 56

 

FINANCIAL BID

Name of Work: “Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 06
(Six) numbers of Diesel Generator Sets at NIT Agartala campus.

DNteT No.: 124/NITA/Estate Elect. /2023-24

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Basic Rate Total Amount
SI (Per Year) for 3 (Three)
No Item Description Qnty | Unit | With Taxes in Years With
. Figure Taxes
Rs. P | Rs. P
[ A T B | C D E F=3XEXC
Capacity :- 500 KVA D.G.Set. . |
Make :- Volvo-Penta
104 Location :- Near Auditorium, Near 3 Each
Science Block, Near Dhalai Hostel
| 2 |
Capacity :- 250 KVA D.G.Set. |
2.01 | Make :- Cummins 1 Each
Location :- R.N.T Hostel | |
Capacity :- 200 KVA D.G.Set.
3.01 | Make :- Cummins 1 Each

 

 

 

 

Location :- R.N.T Hostel | |

Capacity :- 160 KVA D.G.Set.
4.01 | Make :- Cummins 1 Each
Location :- Sports Complex

 

 

 

 

Total in Figures

 

Total in Words

 

 

The Financial Bid is available on the e- procurement website
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/a

 

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

jC, &

 
