
--- Page 1 ---
™_.

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
BARJALA, JIRANIA, WEST TRIPURA, TRIPURA-799046

Notice Inviting Tender for “Digitization of Old Records and
Provide Document Management System (Open-Source Software) for Accessing Digitized
Records”

 

 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

 

RY Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 1 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

of

 


--- Page 2 ---
Table of Contents
SECTION-1: Brief information and Definition of Tender Document 4

SECTION-2: INSTRUCTION TO BIDDERS

SECTION-3: SCOPE OF
Responsibilities of the Vendor

Document type and Size:

Standards of Digitization Process: .............c.sccccccescccccceccsvcsecesececs 12

Software Application:

Roles and responsibilities
Eligibility Criteria: ......
SECTION-4: PRE-QUALIFICATION CRITERIA FOR BIDDERS 14
Technical Bids:

Financial Bid:

ANNEXURE-A

ANNEXURE-B

ANNEXURE-D
10 ANNEXURE-E
11 ANNEXURE-F

12 ANNEXURE-G

 

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 2 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 3 ---
Checklist

The bidder shall verify his tender properly b

efore its submission and satisfy that all the information is

submitted. Copy of documents should be numbered (page numbering) at the bottom. Numbering
should be started as Page No. 1 and continued; and should be properly attached to the Technical

bid.

Name of the Firm / Agency / Dealer / Supplier with full
address including contact number and email id etc.

SL
No.
—
| Trade License issued by Government / Statutory Body
| or Company Registration on the item(s) related to this

tender,

3 | GST Registration of the Supplier/F irm/Bidder

7 Up to date GST return / any other tax clearance
& 9B)
Up to date Income Tax Return (Last filled ITR)

fo
? | “Bid Security Declaration form” on Company Letter
12

Annual Turnover (last three years) ,

Financial Solvency issued by Bank per
guidelines) not less than 50 lakhs. __

i

certificate. (last filed GST return) (GSTR 9

Service Support details (if applicable)

| Certification of holiday and non-black listin
(Self-Certification) (Annexure-G)

| Self-certificate as per applicability (Annexure- D or E)
regarding offered item(s) as per Office Mernorandum
No. 6/18/2019-PPD dated 23-07-2022 & 24-07-2020
and Office Memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated

| 8th February, 2021

A

Head (Annexure-C)
1

Experience, if any, with govt. sector /Public
Undertaking /Private sector (if applicable)
relaxed for MSME, NSIC & Startup as per
India Norm)

Self-certificate as per Government Public Procurement
Order No. P-45021/2/2017-BE-II dt. 15.06.2017, P-
45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 28.05.2018] P-

| 45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 29.05.2019 |and P-

| 45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 16.09.2020 (Annexure-
F)

May be
ovt. of

Seal and signature of the bidder

 

PAN Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder |
8B, BI " a

il

g [ Whether submitted

Certificate under MSME, NSIC, Make-in-India & _
Startup as per Govt. of India Norms :

Supplier/Firm/Bidder should accept all Terms &
Conditions and specification of the items given in the
Tender Document (Self Declaration) =| si

- Rage 3 of 28 -

Page
No. for
ref.

Checklist “
Whether submitted

Whether submitted | Yes / No

Whether submitted | Yes / No
Whether submitted

Whether submitted
Whether submitted

Whether submitted

Whether submitted
Whether submitted | Yes/No |

Z

| Yes/No [|
eM tT

a
[Yes/No] |
Pl
| i Hl

[ “Whether submitted | Yes/No |

fl
7

Whether submitted

| Whether submitted
|

Whether submitted

Whether submitted

| Whether properly
filled and verified

a

 

Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 4 ---
SECTION - 1
Brief information and Definition
of Tender Document

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Rage 4 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 5 ---
NosNITA22(15-PURY2024/ [A4 Cc

 

the website http:// eprocure.gov.in.

   

wOT}ag /
yuourjedaq

 
 
 
   
  

No.F.NITA/22 | digitization
(15- to records r
PUR)/2024

   
  

&

the tender document.

tender documents.

Tender sent by any other mode wil

Seal and signature of the bidder

E-Tender Notice

Implementing

  

 

On behalf of National Institute of Technology Agartala, online quotation through
Central Public Procurement Portal (CPPP) are invited from the reputed resourceful Agency /
Service Provider etc. for implementing digitization solution for old records related to Finance,
Academic, Estate and Administrative sections at NIT Agartala as per specification mentioned
in Annexure of tender document available at our website www.nita.ac.in and central public
procurement portal i.e. www.eprocure.gav.in. The tender document can be downloaded from

cost
(Rs.)

solution

elated to | 25,00,000.00
selected se¢tions at
NIT Agartala

The interested Agency / Service Provider etc. may arrange online submission of the
tender through www.eprocure.gov.in along with scan copy of essential documents mentioned in

Tender(s) is/are to be submitted only online through central public procurement portal
i.e. “http://eprucure.gov.in”. All the documents are to be scanned and uploaded along with the

I not be accepted.

- Rage 5 of 28 -

 

Estimated

Date: /9 /p¢ 2025

  
 
   
   

  

 
 
      
 
     
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
   
  
 

    
     

Time and date
of opening of
Technical bid

   
  
 

Last date of
receipt of tender

 
 

   
 
 
   
  

 
     
     

'T 0% 2024 | 12 O% 12024
Up to 3:00 PM At 3:00 PM

  
  

   

 

 
 
   
 
     
   

  

     
 

 
 

fr
Registra \ sm
NIT Agartala

     

Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 6 ---
.

4

No.F.NITA/22(15-PUR)/2024 / A A

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

Name of the Institute

Date: lg 2025

E- Tender Enquiry

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TE CHNOLOGY

AGARTALA

GST Number of the Institute
PAN of the Institute

TAN of the Institute

Institute Bank A/C No.
Ag

Name of Department / Branch

Enquiry / Reference Number No

Some important/Critical dates:

16AAAGN0550K1ZG
AAAGNO0550K

SHLN00719F
030936141729 (IFSC: SBINOO1 1491) under SBI, NIT

artala Branch.

Purchase Section.

F.NITA/22(15-PUR)/2024

Uploading on CPP Portal and | Date: 2 ¥/08//202 Time: 5:00 PM
Department’s web-site .

Bid submission start date

y
D

Time: 5:00 PM

Pre bid conference date Date: OS | Oh 2026- Time: 11:00 AM
Bid submission end date Date: TY [UA /2024 Time: 3:00 PM

Opening of technical bid Date: [7/0 024 Time: 3:00 PM

A Pre-bid Conference will be held dn schedule mentioned above. All prospective bidders

are requested to kindly

nitapurchasesection2@gmail.com at least

Details of e-tender document.

submit

their queries to the email address

two days before Pre-Bid Conference:

The National Institute of Technology- Agartala (NITA), an Autonomous Body under
Ministry of Education, Govt. of India, is country’s premiere Research Institute to generate

scientific knowledge in the field of Science and Technology.

importance for basic and applied research i

NIT Agartala inviting Tenders to

It functions as a national
n the field of science and technology.

select a firm/vendor for implementing digitization

solution for its old records related to Finance, Academic, Estate and Administrative sections.

The detailed Notice document indicating the scope of work, qualifyin
procedure for submission of proposal is mentioned below.

Seal and signature of the bidder

- Rage 6 of 28 -

requirements and

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

 

Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 7 ---
BRIEF INFORMATION ABOUT TENDER

Tender No.: No.F.NITA/22(15-PUR)/2024 Date: {2025

Name of work / service: Digitization of Old Records and Provide Document Management
System (Open-Source Software) for Accessing Digitized Records.

Tendering Process: The bids (technical and financial) should be submitted online
through CPP portal i.e www.epuocure.gov.in before the last date &
time of submission specified in tender document.

Evaluation Process: Both the Technical and Financial bids will be evaluated by NITA. In
the first stage] technical bids shall be opened and evaluated by the
committee constituted by the Competent Authority. ©

At the second $tage, financial bids of only the technically acceptable
offers should be opened for further evaluation and recommendations
for awarding the work order / contract.

Cost of Tender Document: The tender/document is free of cost, which can be downloaded
from Institute’s website as well as CPP Portal (e-Procurement).

Bid security (EMD amount): INR 1,00,000/- (Rupees one lakh only) to be paid through RTGS
/ NEFT preferably, DD, BC&BG in an acceptable form
safeguarding the NITA interest in all respect.

Security Deposit amount: The Contractor shall deposit Rs. 5,00,000 (Rupees Five Lakh only)
as interest free Security Deposit which shall be refunded after the
expiry of the agreement and after adjusting applicable deductions,
if any.

Validity of Bid : 180 days from the date of opening of technical bid.

[sp —

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 7 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 8 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

POST OFFICE — NIT AGARTALA, WEST TRIPURA, PIN NO. — 799046

SECTION — 2

(Instruction to Bidders)

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 8 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 9 ---
_No.F.NITA/22(15-PUR)/2024
2.1 Definitions:

2.1.1 Digitization includes following activities:

2.1.1.1. Preparation of records for scanning.

2.1.1.2 Scanning of documents and converting them into electronic form.

2.1.1.3. Provision of Customized software application for classifying pages in an
indexed PDF file bs document types and extracting data points from
document types using OCR/ ICR technologies with other features for
highest data accuracy.

2.1.1.4 Quality check and authentication.

2.1.1.5 Loading scanned documents on database/electronic media.

2.1.2 Vendor means the firm which is awarded the contract to digitize the records of
this office.

2.1.3 Competent Authority means the Director, NIT Agartala.
2.2. General Instructions:

National Institute of Technology, Agartala intends to carry out digitization of old
records Finance, Academic|and Administration section and providing document
management solution for digitized records.

Bids are invited through | e-tender on behalf of the National Institute of
Technology Agartala, Tripura, Agartala-799046 for Digitization of old office
records for Finance, Academic, Estate and Administration sections of NIT
Agartala from reputed vendors who have the required experience and capabilities
for taking up this assignment as per guidelines contained in this document. The
number of section for which records are to be digitized may increase or decrease
as per requirement.

2.2.3 The bidders should quote their rates in clear terms without ambiguity. The
quotation should be only in prdian Rupees. The last date & time for submission of
the bid is marked in the enquiry.

 

2.2.4 The bids should be submitted! online through www.eprocure.gov.in before the last
date & time of submission specified in tender document.

2.2.5 Bids received after the deadline of receipt indicated in para 2.2.4 above, shall not
be taken into consideration.

2.2.6 Each bidder shall submit only one bid against one enquiry. A bidder, who submits
more than one bid against single enquiry, shall be disqualified and considered
non-responsive.

2.2.7 At any time prior to the due date for submission of bids, the Purchaser may, for any
reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by
a prospective bidder, modify the bidding documents by amendment.

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 9 of 28 - Regt , NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 10 ---
2.2.8 All prospective bidders are expected to surf the website before formulating and
submitting their bids to take cognizance of the amendments.

2.2.9 For any clarifications regarding this tender please contact with Mr. Kamlesh
Tilwani, Asst. Registrar (Pur), Ph.7022230363.

2.2.10 This e-tender document may also available in the official website of the Institute
https://www.nita.ac.in

2.2.11 This Notice is being issued with no financial commitment and the Buyer reserves
the right to change or vary any part thereof at any stage. Buyer also reserves the
right to withdraw the Notice, should it become necessary at any stage.

2.2.12 Submission of bids - Bids should be submitted through CPP Portal ice.
www.eprocure.gov.in.

2.2.13 Clarification regarding contents of the bids: During evaluation and comparison of
bids, the Buyer may, at its discretion, ask the bidder for clarification of his bid.
The request for clarification will be given in writing and no change in prices or
substance of the bid will be sought, offered or permitted. No post-bid clarification
on the initiative of the bidder will be entertained.

2.2.14 Rejection of bids: Canvassing by the bidder in any form, unsolicited letter and
post- tender correction may invoke summary rejection with forfeiture of Earnest
Money Deposit. Conditional tenders will be rejected.

2.2.15 Validity of bids: The bids should remain valid for six months from the last date of
submission of bids.

2.2.16 Earnest Money Deposit: bidders are required to submit Earnest Money Deposit
(EMD) for amount of Rs. 1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakhs only) along with their
bids. The EMD may be submitted in the form of a crossed Bank Draft/Bankers
cheque in favour of Registrar, NIT Agartala from any of the public sector banks
or a private sector bank authorized to conduct government business. The amount
of EMD will be relaxed as per the guidelines of Central Government in relation to
MSME‘SStart-up units, proved such certificate is made available by the vendor.
EMD is to remain valid for a period of Sixty days beyond the final bid validity
period. EMD of the eet eee bidders will be returned to them at the earliest
after expiry of the final bid validity. The bid security of the successful bidder
would be returned, after the receipt of Performance Security from them as called
for in the contract. The EMD will be forfeited if the bidder withdraws or amends
or impairs or derogates from the tender in any respect within the validity period
of their tender. No interest will be payable by the NIT Agartala on the Earnest

Money Deposit. ho
Regisjrar

National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

 

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 10 of 28 - Regjstr@r, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 11 ---
No.F.NITA/22(15-PUR)/2024

3 Section-3: Scope of Work

3.1 Responsibilities of the Vendor.

3.1.1 The vendor will catry out review of the physical records available with
this office along with the/register/list available to gain better understanding of
the work and better planning of work.

3.4.2 The vendor, in consultation with the client, shall prepare parameters for
indexing/Bookmarking, dreation and uploading of metadata for digitized

documents.

3.1.3. The vendor will prepare a detailed action plan for digitization of records

of this office along with
commence the work only
approved by the competent

detailed schedule and workflows. The vendor will
after the detailed plan, schedule and workflow are
authority of this office.

3.1.4 The vendor is responsible to scan and digitize the records provided. After scanning

nd

The vendor should provide for!

and digitizing the records, indexing, and cataloguing is to be done for the records.

3.1.4.1 An image cleaning application which can Automatically Binarize, remove
black blocks, increase contrast, and remove noise from images as the
documents under consideration are decades old.

An application which can classify each page/set of pages in the PDF
document as specific section, so that data points can be extracted.

An application which
35) from each file of a

Vendor may note that

can extract a minimum number of data points (25 -
specified type.

OCR/ICR based data capture from scanned files may
be restricted only to 20-25% of the entire set of records.

A web-based application that can be hosted at the NIT Agartala and provide
access to users to do quality check and index data verification from
home/remote location for the complete duration of this project/job.

The application should have t

he following modules:

3.1.5.1 User Management module.

3.1.5.2 Scan quality control module.

3.1.5.3 Data verification module.

3.1.5.4 Reports module.

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 11 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 12 ---
3.1.5.5 Types of reports: User level, Department Level, and Section/Office level
reports.

The work shall be completed within 180 days of the award of the work including
mobilization and deployment of manpower and equipment.

The vendor will authenticate the scanned document for its accuracy and
completeness through a digital signature and ensure 100% accuracy of extracted data
points by doing 100% quality ¢heck.

The vendor will also provide for a software application, do quality check and
index data verification from home/remote location for the complete duration of this
project by designated official of this office, authenticating scanned records and
digitally signing them before being transferred to database or any electronic media
for preservation.

The vendor shall provide extensive training to staff of the client on using the
web- based Quality Control Software application for checking scan quality of the
images, verifying the accuracy of the data points captured and suggesting corrections
on online mode.

3.1.10 | The vendor shall deploy |the required equipment (including UPS, scanners,
desktop computers, printers | etc.) and manpower to carry out the complete
digitization of all records as per the time schedule given in clause above.

The operation also involves collection of the documents from the record
room/concerned section for digitizing. The documents once received are to be
arranged, scanned, indexed, and placed back to the same location from where it was
received from. It is the responsibility of the vendor to return the files/registers in the
same condition as it was received.

The vendor shall maintain marking and listing of all the files before scanning and
handover the physical files safely after the digitization is completed.

The vendor shall submit an MIS Report on a weekly basis regarding the work
completed to the Nodal Officer, NIT Agartala.

A DMS application to be made available for storage and consumption of the scanned
files. The application should have features which would make document retrieval

efficient.

3.1.15 The vendor shall carry out onsite scanning at NIT Agartala.

3.2 Document, Type & Size:

3.2.1 Document Type: Letters, Legal notes, documents (Hand-written and computer-
generated sheets), registers, broadsheets (A3 size), hand books, Sketches etc.

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 12 of 28 - Sgistrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 13 ---
3.2.2 Size: More or less 2000000 (twenty lakhs) nos. pages will be scan (more than 90%
of the pages available in the file are of A4 and Legal size and only a nominal 10%
are in other sizes, mainly A3).|Nos. of copies for scanning may increase or decrease
as per requirement.

3.3 Standards of Digitization Process:

The vendor shall adhere to the flowing standards at all stages of the digitization process.

3.3.1 During digitization process, the|vendor is required to ensure the scanned image to be
as close to the original as possible. Resolution of the scanned documents shall be 300
dpi and above.

3.3.2. Documents are to be scanned in| colour.
3.3.3. The database created by the vendor shall be non-editable.

3.3.4 PDF files should be indexed and enabled for interactive use like applying digital
signature, annotations and comments using PDF reader.

3.3.5 Authentication by Digital Signature of vendor: - The Digital Signature is to be placed
at either the beginning or at end of the final PDF that is completely processed, signed
by authorized personnel of the Vendor before saving it in the database.

Software Application:

The vendor shall, immediately on commencement of digitization work, provide a
web- based software application with the following features/modules: The
application shall need to have Image cleaning capability which can automatically
binarize, remove black blocks, increase contrast, and remove noise from images as
the documents to be scanned are decades old.

The application shall classify) each page/set of pages in the PDF document as a
specific section, so that data points can be extracted.

The application should have the capability to extract a minimum number of data
points (25 - 35) from each |file of a specific document type using OCR/ICR
technologies.

Application should have the capability to classify documents based on the OCR
confidence level (between scanned document and the data extracted). The
confidence threshold for such |classification would be decided in consultation with
the client.

The application should be web enabled and it shall be hosted at NIT Agartala and
provide access to users to do the scan quality check and index data verification from
home/remote location for the complete duration of the project.

 

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 13 of 28 - Registrar,\NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 14 ---
3.4.5 The application should have the following modules.
3.4.5.1 User Management module
3.4.5.2 Scan quality control module
3.4.5.3. Data verification module
3.4.5.4 Reports module

3.5 Roles and responsibilities of the|client:

3.5.1 This office will deploy a Nodal officer to supervise the work.

3.5.2 This office will identify, mark and handover the documents to be digitized.

3.5.3 This office will deploy officials for quality check and authentication of scanned
documents.

3.5.4 The signature (digital) is to be placed at either the beginning or end of the final PDF
that is completely processed.

3.5.5 This office will arrange to take back the physical records alter digitization is
completed.

3.5.6 This office will provide the space required (approx. 2,000 sq. ft.) at a single location
along with power connection, basic furniture (like tables, chairs etc.) as mutually
agreed.

3.6 Eligibility Criteria :

Evaluation Criteria

Scanning/Digitization of record 1) Vendor should have completed at-least
ONE project of scanning and indexing of
more than Twenty-Five Lakh pages each
for any Government organization.

2) Vendor should have completed at-least
one project of digitization of records

which are older than 20 years.

National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 14 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 15 ---
No.F.NITA/22(15-PUR)/2024
4 Section-4: Pre-Qualification criteria for bidders:
4.1 Technical Bids:

4.1.1 Technical Bids are invited from only those firms which fulfill the following
conditions. Supporting documents may please be attached. If not, the firm
will be disqualified at the Technical bid stage itself and the financial bid
will not be considered for opening.

4.1.2 Evaluation of Technical Bids:

The vendor should be able to demonstrate the following features of the
application:

4.1.2.1 An image cleaning |tool that would be used in the application. This tool
shall automatically binarize, remove black blocks, increase contrast, and
remove noise from images as the documents to be scanned are many
decades old.

4.1.2.2 A tool to classify jeach page/set of pages in the PDF document as a
specific section from where data points can be extracted.

4.1.2.3 A Document Management System.

4.1.2.4 Extraction of data points from the document (at-least 25 points)

4.1.2.5 The demonstration of the software should be made within 4 days from
opening of the technical bid.

4.1.2.6 Quality check and 100% Accuracy of the extracted data to be ensured.

4.1.2.7 The vendor should provide a web-based application that can be hosted at
NIT Agartala and provide access to users to do the scan quality check and
index data verification from home/remote location for the complete
duration of the project.

4.1.3. The application should have the following modules:
4.1.3.1 Users Administration Module.
4.1.3.2 Scan Quality control] module.

4.1.3.3 Data Verification maddule.

4.1.3.4 Reports module.

4.1.4 Vendor should be a well-established firm with a positive net worth. The firm
should have an average turnover of | crore in the last three years (2020-2023).

4.1.5 No consortium is allowed.

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 15 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 16 ---
4.2 Financial Bid:
At second stage, financial bid(s) of Technically Qualified bidder(s) will be
opened.

4.2.1 Price has to be | filled through CPP portal as per BOQ
(https://www.eprocure.gov.in). The scanned copy of Price Bid, dully filled in,
has to be uploaded on the above e-procurement site. The prices filled in the e-
procurement site will be treated final and shall be binding to the vendor.

4.2.2 The bidders should quote their rates in clear terms without ambiguity. The
quotation should be only|in Indian Rupees.

4.2.3. The rates quoted by the |Bidders/Agency should preferably be on basic price,
GST, and all other charges including delivery (if any) of the Materials at
National Institute of Technology, Agartala.

4.2.2 All taxes and duties will be paid extra and such amounts of mandatory/statutory
taxes & duties shall be explicitly mentioned in BOQ while submitting of bid. If
GST amount not quoted in the BOQ (price bid), the total cost will be treated as
inclusive of GST.

Evaluation of Financial |Proposal: The Competent Authority will determine
whether the Financial Proposals are all-inclusive, complete, qualified or
unqualified, and unconditional. The cost per page indicated in the Financial

Proposal shall be deemed as final and reflecting the total cost of services.
Omissions, if any, in costing any item shall not entitle the firm to be
compensated and the liability to fulfill its obligations.

Financial evaluation will be done based on LCS method i.e, responsive technically
qualified proposal with the lowest evaluated cost shall be selected.

~

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 16 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 17 ---
No.F.NITA/22(15-PUR)/2024 Date: /2025
5 Section-5: Standard Terms & Conditions of Bid:

5.1 The bidder is required to giye confirmation of their acceptance of the Standard
Conditions of this E-tender enquiry mentioned below which will automatically be
considered as part of the Contract concluded with the successful Bidder (i.e. Seller
in the Contract) as selected by the Buyer (client). Failure to do so may result in
rejection of the Bid submitted by the Bidder.

The bidders who are registered as a Micro or Small Enterprise under
NSIC/MSME organization of Govt. of India for exemption of submitting
EMD/Bid security must enclose relevant documentary proof of authentication
of their firm’s registered as|a Micro or Small Enterprise under NSIC/MSME
organization of Govt. of India.

If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME
rules, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover”
criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the offered products, it
would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria. In case any
bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover /Experience Criteria, the supporting
documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded with technical
bid.

If the bidder is a Startup, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of
"Bidder Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the
offered products, it would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover"
criteria. In case any bidder jis seeking exemption from Turnover / Experience

Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be
uploaded with technical bid.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala is following and abide with the Public
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017, DIPP, MoCI Order No. P-
45021/2/2017-B.E.II dated 15th June 2017 and subsequent amendments to the order.
Accordingly preference will be given to the Make in India products while evaluating
the bids, however, it is the sole responsibility of the bidder(s) to specify the product
quoted by them is of Make in India product along with respective documentary
evidence as stipulated in the/ aforesaid order in the technical bid itself. A self-
declaration as per Annexure- F| should be enclosed in the technical bid.

Bidder(s) is/are required to upload a self-certificate as per applicability
(Annexure- D or E) regarding offered item(s) as per Office Memorandum No.
6/18/2019-PPD dated 23-07-2022 & 24-07-2020 and Office Memorandum No.
F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8" February, 2021 issued by Department of
Expenditure, Procurement Policy Division, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India.

Bidders are required to upload|a declaration on company letter head stating that the
bidder has not been | black-listed & holiday listed by any
Ministry/Department/Organization (As per Annexure-G).

Bidders are required to upload Bid Securing Declaration Form on company letter
(As per Annexure-C).

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 17 of 28 - Reeftstrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 18 ---
The technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted through
www.eprocure.gov.in. The technical bids shall be opened and evaluated by the
competent committee/authority. At the second stage, financial bids of only the
technically qualified bidders shall be opened for further evaluation and
recommendations for awarding the purchase order/contract.

It may specifically be mentioned whether quotation is strictly as per terms and
conditions of the tender. Deviation, if any, must be spelt out specifically in technical
bid. In the absence of this, the quotation may be rejected.

Law: The Contract shall be considered and made in accordance with the laws of the
Republic of India. The contract shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance
with the laws of the Republic of India.

Effective Date of the Contract; The contract shall come into effect on the date of
signatures of both the parties on the mutual agreement (Effective Date) and shall
remain valid for one year or till/the completion of the obligations of the parties under
the contract. The deliveries and supplies and performance of the services shall
commence from the effective date of the contract.

Arbitration: All disputes or differences arising out of or in connection with the
Contract shall be settled by bilateral discussions. Any dispute, disagreement or
question arising out of or relating to the Contract or relating to construction or
performance, which cannot be settled amicably, may be resolved through
arbitration and will be restricted within the jurisdiction of High Court of
Tripura, Agartala only.

Non-disclosure of Contract documents: Except with the written consent of the Buyer/

Seller, other party shall not disclose the contract or any provision, specification, plan,
design, pattern, sample, or information thereof to any third party.

Termination of Contract: The Buyer shall have the right to terminate this contract in
part or in full in any of the following cases:

5.14.1 At any time without assigning any reason after giving a notice of one
month.

5.14.2 The Seller is declared bankrupt or becomes insolvent.

5.14.3 The Buyer has noticed that the Seller has utilized the services of any
Indian/Foreign agent in getting this contract and paid any commission to
such individual/company etc.

5.14.4 As per decision of the Arbitrator.

5.14.5 The Seller will not be entitled to claim any compensation against such
termination. However, while terminating the contract, if any payment in
terms of due to seller for maintenance services already performed in terms
of the contract, the same would be paid to it as per the contract terms.

Notices: Any notice required or permitted by the contract shall be written in the
Hindi/English language and may be delivered personally or may be sent by FAX or
registered pre-paid mail/airmail, addressed to the last known address of the party to
whom it is sent.

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 18 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 19 ---
Transfer and Sub-letting: The /Seller has no right to give, bargain, sell, assign, or
sublet or otherwise dispose of the Contract or any part thereof, as well as to give or to
let a third party take benefit or advantage of the present contract or any part thereof.

Liquidated Damage: No payment would be made for the documents not scanned,
indexed, merged etc. properly or up to the satisfaction of the end user. The vendor
must produce a certificate duly |signed from the end user in this regard, indicating the
quantity and quality of the above work. If the vendor fails to complete the works
within the stipulated time-period, a recovery or penalty at the rate of 0.05% per week
or part thereof on total contract value will be deducted from the Payment. A joint
review will be conducted at regular interval (at the end of every month) during the
contract period.

If document taken for the scanning is not returned in the same condition or the
document is lost/misplaced/torn during the scanning, the department will penalize the
firm, who must pay the penalty, which will be decided by the NIT Agartala.

Amendments: No provision of present Contract shall be changed or modified in any
way (including this provision) either in whole or in part except by an instrument in
writing made after the date of this Contract and signed on behalf of both the parties
and which expressly states to amend the present Contract.

Taxes and Duties: Quoted price must be all inclusive of taxes and duties applicable.
The Bidder is required to give confirmation of their acceptance of Special Conditions
of the RFP mentioned below which will automatically be considered as part of the
Contract concluded with the successful Bidder (i.e. Seller in the Contract) as selected
by the Buyer. Failure to do so may result in rejection of Bid submitted by the Bidder.

Performance Guarantee: The Bidder will be required to furnish a Performance
Guarantee with an amount of Rs. “5,00,000.00” by way of Bank Guarantee
through a public sector bank or a private sector bank authorized to conduct
government business within 15 days from the receipt of the confirmed order.
Performance Bank Guarantee| should be valid up to 60 days beyond the duration
of the contract.

Tolerance Clause - Buyer reserves the right to increase or decrease the quantity of
work by 50% - 70% of pages to be scanned / cataloguing proposed for scanning
without any change in the term & condition and per page prices quoted by the Seller.
However, timeline for completing the task will be extended proportionately. If the
vendor cannot complete the work awarded within the specified time for reason
whatsoever, the vendor shall engage another vendor to complete the work at the cost
of original vendor to whom the contract is awarded.

Validity of Contract: The period of contract is till the completion of scanning and
digitization of old records.

Payment Terms: The payment will be made by this Office through electronic mode
(RTGS/NEFT). The PO part payment will be released on satisfactory
completion of 25%, 50%, 75% and 100% of the awarded work respectively. The bank

details like bank account number, bank name, IFSC Code, MICR Coda for E-payment

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 19 of 28 - Re@istrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 20 ---
must be submitted with the bill! Payment due will be calculated based on the number
of pages scanned/digitized and price per page quoted by the Vendor.

Penalty for use of Undue influence: The Seller undertakes that he has not given,
offered or promised to give, directly or indirectly, any gift, consideration, reward,
commission, fees, brokerage or| inducement to any person in service of the Buyer or
otherwise in procuring the Contracts or forbearing to do or for having done or
forborne to do any act in relation to the obtaining or execution of the present Contract
or any other Contract with the Government of India for showing or forbearing to show
favour or dis favour to any person in relation to the present Contract or any other
Contract with the Government of India. Any breach of the aforesaid undertaking by
the Seller or any one employed by him or acting on his behalf (whether with or
without the knowledge of the Seller) or the commission of any offers by the Seller or
anyone employed by him or acting on his behalf, as defined in Chapter IX of the
Indian Penal Code, 1860 or the| Prevention of Corruption Act, 1986 or any other Act
enacted for the prevention of corruption shall entitle the Buyer to cancel the contract
and all or any other contracts with the Seller and recover from the Seller the amount
of any loss arising from such cancellation. A decision of the Buyer or his nominee to
the effect that a breach of the| undertaking had been committed shall be final and
binding on the Seller.

Giving or offering of any gift, bribe or inducement or any attempt at any such act on
behalf of the Seller towards any officer/employee of the Buyer or to any other person
in a position to influence any officer/employee of the Buyer for showing any favour in
relation to this or any other contract, shall render the Seller to such liability / penalty

as the Buyer may deem proper, including but not limited to termination of the
contract, imposition of penal damages, forfeiture of the Bank Guarantee and refund of
the amounts paid by the Buyer.

Bidder should arrange their own machineries (hardware & software) to perform the
Job. NIT Agartala will not provide any machinery(ies) (hardware & software) for
performing the said job.

An agreement should be sign between “Successful Bidder” and “NIT Agartala” to
maintain the confidentiality of the records/documents.

5.29 The bidder has to submit valid trade license, GST registration certificate, Last filled ITR, last
filed GST return (GSTR 9 & GSTR| 9B) and Annual turnover (not less than 1 cror) for Last

three years and other certificates & undertaking as per bid document.

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

 

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 20 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 21 ---
ANNEXURE — A

Details of Work:

a. Review of the physical records available with this office along with the register/list
available to gain better understanding of the work and better planning of work.

b. To prepare parameters for indexing/Bookmarking, creation and uploading of metadata
for digitized documents in consultation with the client.

. To prepare a detailed action plan| for digitization of records of this office along with
detailed schedule and workflows! The vendor will commence the work only after the
detailed plan; schedule and workflow are approved by the competent authority of this
office.

. After scanning and digitizing the records, indexing, and cataloguing is to be done for the
records. The vendor should provide for.

i.. An image cleaning application which can Automatically Binarize, remove
black blocks, increase contrast, and remove noise from images as the
documents under consideration are decades old.

An application which) can classify each page/set of pages in the PDF
document as specific section, so that data points can be extracted.

iii. An application which can extract a minimum number of data points (25 - 35)
from each file of a specified type.

iv. Vendor may note that OCR/ICR based data capture from scanned files may
be restricted only to 20-25% of the entire set of records.

e. A web-based application that can be hosted at the NIT Agartala Office/data center and
provide access to users to do quality check and index data verification from home/remote
location for the complete duration of this project/job.

The application should have the following modules:

i.. User Management module
ii. Scan quality control module
iii. Data verification module
iv. Reports module
v. Types of reports: User level, Department Level, and project-level reports.

Authenticate the scanned document for its accuracy and completeness through a
digital signature and ensure 100% accuracy of extracted data points by doing 100%
quality check.

A software application also provide for quality check and index data verification from
home/remote location for the complete duration of this project by designated official
of this office, authenticating scanned records and digitally signing them before being
transferred to database or any electronic media for preservation.

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 21 of 28 - ReGisttar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 22 ---
Vendor shall provide extensive training to staff of the client on using the web- based
Quality Control Software application for checking scan quality of the images,
verifying the accuracy of the |data points captured and suggesting corrections on
online mode.

Vendor shall deploy the required equipment (including UPS, scanners, desktop
computers, printers etc) and manpower to carry out the complete digitization of all
records as per the time schedule.

The operation also involves collection of the documents from the record
room/concerned section for digitizing. The documents once received are to be
arranged, scanned, indexed, and placed back to the same location from where it was
received from. It is the responsibility of the vendor to return the files/registers in the
same condition as it was received.

Maintain marking and listing jof all the files before scanning and handover the
physical files safely after the digitization is completed.

The vendor shall submit an MIS Report on a weekly basis regarding the work
completed to the Nodal Officer of this office.

A DMS application to be made available for storage and consumption of the scanned
files. The application should have features which would make document retrieval
efficient.

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 22 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 23 ---
ANNEXURE — B

PRICE BID

As per BOQ

 

|
Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 23 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 24 ---
Annexure-C
Bid Securing Declaration Form

Tender Ref. No: .........ccceceeeeseeceee
Tender ID: .....cccccc cee ee eee oeees

To (insert complete name and address of the purchaser)
I/We. The undersigned, declare that:

I/We understand that, according to your conditions, bids must be supported by a Bid Securing
Declaration.

I/We accept that I/We may be disqualified from bidding for any contract with you for a period
of one year from the date of notification if I am /We are in a breach of any obligation under the
bid conditions, because I/We

a) have withdrawn/modified/amended, impairs or derogates from the tender, my/our Bid during
the period of bid validity specified in the form of Bid; or

b) having been notified of the acceptance|of our Bid by the purchaser during the period of bid
validity (i) fail or reuse to execute the contract, if required, or (ii) fail or refuse to furnish the
Performance Security, in accordance with the Instructions to Bidders.

I/We understand this Bid Securing Declaration shall cease to be valid if I am/we are not the
successful Bidder, upon the earlier of (i) the receipt of your notification of the name of the
successful Bidder; or (ii) thirty days after the expiration of the validity of my/our Bid.

Signed: (insert signature of person whose name and capacity are shown)

in the capacity of (insert legal capacity of person signing the Bid Securing Declaration)

Name: (insert complete name of person signing he Bid Securing Declaration)

Duly authorized to sign the bid for an on behalf of (insert complete name of Bidder)

Dated on day of (insert date of signing)
Corporate Seal (where appropriate)

(Note: In case of a Joint Venture, the Bid Securing Declaration must be in the name of all
partners to the Joint Venture that submits the bid)

 

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 24 of 28 - Registrar,\NIT Agartala


--- Page 25 ---
Annexure-D

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(as applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated
23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021

regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules (GFRs),
2017. |

tem Name: fo
Penguiry Now |

(name of the bidder company)
have read the clauses pertaining to the Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public
Procurement Division Order (Pul lic procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref.
F.No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on
procurement from a bidder of a country that shares a land border with India.

We hereby certify that we are not from such a country and eligible to be
considered for this tender.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment,

(if any), by any bidder(s) shall lead p commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-
Agartala)

 

For and behalf of ...(Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 25 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 26 ---
Annexure-E

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(as applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated
23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021
regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules (GFRs),

AY (name of the bidder company)
have read the clauses pertaining to the Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public
Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref.
F.No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on
procurement from a bidder of a country that shares a land border with India.

We are from such a country which shares a land border with India & have been
registered with the Competent Authority as specified in the above-said order. We
hereby certify that we fulfill all requirements in this regard and are eligible to be
considered.

Evidence of valid registration by the Competent Authority is attached.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment,
(if any), by any bidder(s) shall lead to commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-
Agartala)

For and behalf of (Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 26 of 28 - Registrdr, NIT Agartala


--- Page 27 ---
Annexure -F

Self-Certification on the letterhead of the company

In line with Government Public Procurement Order No. P-45021/2/2017-BE-II dt.
15.06.2017, P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 28.05.2018, P-45021/2/2017-PP
(BE-II) dated 29.05.2019 and P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 16.09.2020,

we hereby certify that :. (Supplier name)
local supplier meeting requirement of minimum local
% defined in as above orders for the material against

We also understand false declarations will be in breach of the Code of Integrity
under Rule 175(1)(i)(h) of the General Financial Rules for which a bidder or its
successors can be debarred for up to two years as per Rule 151 (iii) of the General
Financial Rules along with such other actions as may be permitted under law.

Signature:

Name and Designation:
Mobile no:

Office Telephone No:
Email ID: Office Seal

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 27 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 28 ---
Annexure -G

NON BLACKLISTING SELF CERTIFICATE

[To be submitted on letterhead]

I/We hereby certify that the [Name of the
company / firm] has not been ever blacklisted/debarred by any Central / State

Government / Public Undertaking / University / Institute on any account.

I/We also certify that firm will provide material as per the specification given by
NIT Agartala and also abide all the terms and conditions stipulated in the bid
document.

I/We also certify that the information given in bid is true and correct in all aspects
and in any case at a later date it is found that any details provided are false and
incorrect, contract given to the concerned firm or participation may be summarily
terminated at any stage, the firm will be blacklisted and NIT Agartala may impose
any action as per the rules.

Date : Name:
Place :

Business Address:

Signature of Service

Seal of the Service Provider:

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 28 of 28 - Registrar, NIT Agartala
