
--- Page 1 ---
Director’s Message:
The National Institute of Technology Agartala(NITA),an Institute of National Importance
(INI) was instituted by Government of India with the mission to herald excellence in
technical education and research in the North-East region. The institute was established by
the Ministry of Education (MoE) in the era of renaissance in technical education in north east.
NIT Agartala, in its strategic initiatives realizes the responsibilities of higher education to
meet the future challenges of a sustained development in knowledge-based economy and
roots its commitment in inculcating the values of quality education as per National Education
Policy 2020 (NEP2020). The institute strives to the causes of higher education taking the
academic and research dissemination in its stride. These impetus will be the key in furthering,
fostering and enhancing the frontiers of creating sustained employment potential for the rural
and socio-economically challenges for the country and particularly in the North East region.
Among its objective, NITA pledges to revitalize the indices of education from technical to
excellence in conventional science and management areas through a plethora of
undergraduate, post graduate and doctoral programs. The academics programs target to a
multifaceted knowledge hub in the region. The academic programs provide holistic education
incorporating innovation, promotion of entrepreneur skills with assistance of newly
established Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Center. The patronage of national
and internationally reputed faculty strive to secure and promote education of highest
standard. NITA has initiated and will continue to patronize state of the art research endeavors
beyond the realms of pure academic pursuance. The institute actively encourages researchers
efforts culminating in securing commercially exploitable intellectual property rights which
will help to realize the objectivity of a higher education system in its perspective and
encourages the disclosure of innovations achieved. Establishment of a vocational Training
and Skill Development Center under the auspices of the Indian Society for Technical
Education, a nodal center for research and Development under the auspices of TIFAC, a
School of Rural Technology and Development technical education and development at the
institute. The Kendriya Vidyalaya within the campus cater to quality primary school
education, have been, a notable achievements in the societal commitments. The institute has
broken impediments and barriers in its way of becoming a preferred institute.