
--- Page 1 ---
  
 

TWsSla Wehr Fea SERA
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Fax : 0381 254-6360, Website : http// www.nita.ac.in

 
    
   
 

 

No.F.NITA.12(04-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics Lab/2024/ /712./2024

E-Tender Notice

On behalf of National Institute of Technology Agartala, bids are invited in sealed cover from the
reputed resourceful Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/ Authorized Suppliers for supply of item(s)/goods
as per specification mentioned in Annexure of tender document available at our website www.nita.ac.in.

     
   
  
  
    
   

  
  
  

Time and date of
opening of
Technical bid

Estimated
cost
(Rs.

 
  
 

 
  
  

Last date of
receipt of tender

 

uo0rq9a¢ /
yuounsredaq

 

     
  
   

 
  
    

Laboratory and
Scientific
Equipment

No.F.NITA.12(94-
EE)/Procurement
Power Electronics
Lab/2024

 
   
   

 
   
  
  
 

     
 

2d / 32/2024 3) / (2/2024
Up to 3:00 PM At 3:00 PM

Electrical

: . 15,38,160.00
Engineering

 

The interested Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/Authorized Suppliers may arrange online
submission of the tender through www.eprocure.gov.in along with scan copy of essential documents mentioned in
the tender document.

Tender(s) is/are to be submitted only online through central public procurement portal ice.
“http://eprocure.gov.in”. All the documents are to be scanned and uploaded along with the tender documents.

Tender sent by any other mode will not be accepted.

Registrar

 

 

egistrar©™| lols
NIT Agartala

Copy to:

1. The P.S. to the Director for kind information.
The Nodal Officer, e-Procurement, NITA with a request to kindly arrange uploading the
Tender Documents in the CPP portal https://eprocure.gov.in/eppp.

Be Mr. Kamal Kanti Paul, System Administrator, Computing & ICT Unit with a request to uploading
the Tender documents in the Institute website site.

4. The Deputy Registrar (F & A). Pa

Registrar

NIT Agartala


--- Page 2 ---
USA WNP BI SPAM

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.12(94-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics Lab/2024/ 42}-10 Date: 6 / 19/2024

E- Tender Enquiry
IMPORTANT INFORMATION

Name of the Institute : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TE CHNOLOGY
AGARTALA

GST Number of the Institute : 16AAAGN0550K1ZG

PAN of the Institute : AAAGNOS50K

TAN of the Institute : SHLNO0719F

DSIR No. : TU/V/RG-CDE(1053)/2022 dated 18/12/2022

Institute Bank A/C No. : 030936141729 (IFSC: SBIN0011491) under SBI, NIT
Agartala Branch.

Name of Department / Branch : Electrical Engineering Department

Enquiry / Reference Number : No.F.NITA.12(94-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics

Lab/2024

Some important/Critical dates:

 

Uploading on CPP Portal and | Date: O4 / 12/2024 Time: 5:00 PM
Department’s web-site

Bid submission start date : OY / 32/2024 Time: 5:00 PM

 

 

Bid submission end date Date: a0 / 19./2024 Time: 3:00 PM
Opening of technical bid Date: 3\/ 39/2024 Time: 3:00 PM

 

1|Page


--- Page 3 ---
TS War PIM seed

aes National Institute of Technology Agartala
SA AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

    

Details of e-tender document.

NIT, Agartala intends to purchase the commodities/serrie(s)
specified in Annexure enclosed and invites quotations in accordance with the
terms and conditions detailed in the bid document. If you are interested,
kindly submit your offer with prices within the time mentioned above fulfilling

all the terms and conditions marked in the bid documents.

[Ack

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

Encl :

(1) Schedule of requirement, specifications, dates etc.
(2) Bid document containing detail terms and conditions.

2|Page


--- Page 4 ---
1.

 

UST Weel BVI SERA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Description of Goods/Service

         
     
   
    
  

DC-DC Bidirectional Buck Boost Converter for EV Charger with
Controller

2. Single Phase, 5 Level Diode Clamped Inverter with inbuilt FPGA 01 no
Controller

3. Single Phase, 5 level Cascaded Symmetric H-Bridge inverters with 01 no
inbuilt FPGA Controller

4. Study of VI Characteristics of SCR, TRIAC, IGBT and MOSFET 01 no

5. Study of single-phase full Wave-Controlled Rectifier Circuits and 01 no
Semi Converter (mid-point and bridge type) with R and R-L Load.

6. DC-DC Buck Boost Converter 01 no

7. Power Factor Correction (PFC) based setup and applications in 01 no
SMPS Boost Converter with Power Factor Correction.

 
 

 

8. Three phase SCR based Full Wave Rectifiers.
9. 3-phase Shunt Active Power Filter (SAPF)

   
 
  
  

 
 
 
  

(Details as per SI] No.1 to 9 at Annexure-B).

 

Specifications and allied Technical Details

 
      
      
 

1. DC-DC Bidirectional Buck Boost Converter for EV Charger with Controller

2. Single Phase, 5 Level Diode Clamped Inverter with inbuilt FPGA Controller

3. Single Phase, 5 level Cascaded Symmetric H-Bridge inverters with inbuilt FPGA Controller

4. Study of VI Characteristics of SCR, TRIAC, IGBT and MOSFET

5. Study of single-phase full Wave-Controlled Rectifier Circuits and Semi Converter (mid-point and
bridge type) with R and R-L Load.

6. DC-DC Buck Boost Converter

7. Power Factor Correction (PFC) based setup and applications in SMPS Boost Converter with Power

    
 

Factor Correction.

8. Three phase SCR based Full Wave Rectifiers.
3-phase Shunt Active Power Filter (SAPF)

(Details as per SI No.1 to 9 at Annexure-B).

Estimated Cost
15,38,160.00

Quotations should be valid for a period of 180 days from the opening date of the technical bid.

Bid Security or EMD: 2% of the estimated cost of the tender or Bidders should submit “Bid
Security Declaration Form” on company letter head as per annexure-D of this tender document.

 
  

 
  

 

Performance Security: The amount of the Performance Security shall be 5%(five percent) (not
applicable for consumable item(s)) of the Purchase Order / Contract value, valid up to 60 days after
the date of completion of contract obligations including warranty obligations.

Delivery Option: 60 (sixty) days after receipt of the purchase/work order(s).
Please go through the enclosed “bid document” carefully for other bidding instructions.

For any technical details, you may contact through email-id: nitapurchasesection2@qmail.com.

Yours sincerely,

co“
+

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 5 ---
TS Wealhreal Fe sien

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.12(94-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics Lab/2024/ Date: / /2024

BID DOCUMENT
1. Instructions to the bidders:

1.1 Bids are invited through e-tender on behalf of the National Institute of
Technology Agartala, Tripura, Agartala-799046 from the intending bidders for
supply of the goods/stores/ equipments/Learning resources for the Institute as
detailed in the enquiry letter.

1.2 | The bidders should quote their rates in clear terms without ambiguity. The
quotation should be only in Indian Rupees.

1.3. The last date & time for submission of the bid is marked in the enquiry.

1.4 The bids should be submitted online through www.eprocure.gov.in before the
last date & time of submission specified in tender document.

1.5 Bids received after the deadline of receipt indicated in para 1.4 above, shall not
be taken into consideration.

1.6 Each bidder shall submit only one bid against one enquiry. A bidder, who
submits more than one bid against single enquiry, shall be disqualified and
considered non-responsive.

1.7 The bidder has to enclose a check list at per Annexure - C duly filled in along
with all relevant/supporting documents while submitting technical bid through

Wwww.eprocure.gov.in.

1.8 Opening of Bids by the Purchaser will be done as per the provisions of the e-
procurement system.

1.9 At any time prior to the due date for submission of bids, the Purchaser may, for
any reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification
requested by a prospective bidder, modify the bidding documents by
amendment.

1.10 All prospective bidders are expected to surf the website before formulating and
submitting their bids to take cognizance of the amendments.

1.11 Custom Duty Exemption Certificate will be provided from the Institute for
availing Custom Duty Exemption in trams of notification No. 51/96-Custom
dated 23-07-1996, amended by notification No. 43/2017 dated 30-06-2017,
further amended by notification No. 42/2022 dated 13-07-2022, as amended
from time to time in case of imported items per OM No. F.4/1/2021-PPD dated
01-09-2021.

Yours sincerely,

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

>; oO
4|Page


--- Page 6 ---
 

TS Weal FA SET

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

No.F.NITA.12(94-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics Lab/2024/ Date: / /2024

2. General Terms & Conditions:

rae |

22

2.3

2.4

25

2.6

oF

2.8

5|Page

The rates quoted by the Supplier/Bidders should preferably be on
basic price, Annual Maintenance Charges(if applicable), packing,
forwarding, freight, Insurance and all other incidental charges
including delivery of the Materials at National Institute of Technology,
Agartala.

All taxes and duties will be paid extra and such amounts of
mandatory/statutory taxes & duties shall be explicitly mentioned in
BOQ while submitting of bid. If GST amount not quoted in the BOQ
(price bid), the total cost will be treated as inclusive of GST.

Price has to be filled through CPP portal as per BOQ
(https://www.eprocure.gov.in). The scanned copy of Price Bid, dully filled in,
has to be uploaded on the above e-procurement site. The prices filled in the e-
procurement site will be treated final and shall be binding to the vendor.

Insurance: The Goods supplied under the Contract shall be fully insured against
any loss or damage incidental to manufacture or acquisition, transportation,
storage and delivery up to the final destination.

All the Machines/Equipments/goods will be covered by Annual Maintenance
Contract (AMC) / CMC/ Warranty beyond the normal warranty/guarantee period.
Interested bidders are requested to quote price against AMC/Extended warranty
as an optional item in the price bid. Optional items will not be taken into
consideration while selecting L; bidder.

AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty will be awarded after completion of standard
warranty period. AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty may be carried out only after
receipt of confirmation letter from this Institute. The Institute will not be
responsible for any due payments / obligations may arise as a result of
execution of AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty without confirmation letter from this
Institute.

Conditional discount, if any, offered by the bidder shall not be considered at the
time of evaluation.

The bidders who are registered as a Micro or Small Enterprise as per
latest definitions under MSME rules, Govt. of India for exemption of
submitting EMD/Bid security must enclose relevant documentary
proof of authentication of their firm’s registered as a Micro or Small
Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME rules, Govt. of India.


--- Page 7 ---
USA Well FIM SRA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

2.9 If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME
rules, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover"
criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the offered products, it
would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria. In case any
bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover /Experience Criteria, the supporting
documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded with technical
bid.

2.10 If the bidder is a Startup, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of
"Bidder Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the
offered products, it would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover"
criteria. In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover / Experience
Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be
uploaded with technical bid.

2.11 National Institute of Technology, Agartala is following and abide with the Public
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017, DIPP, MoCI Order No.
P-45021/2/2017-B.E.1I dated 15th June 2017 and subsequent amendments to
the order. Accordingly preference will be given to the Make in India products
while evaluating the bids, however, it is the sole responsibility of the bidder(s)
to specify the product quoted by them is of Make in India product along with
respective documentary evidence as stipulated in the aforesaid order in the
technical bid itself. A self-declaration as per Annexure- G should be enclosed in
the technical bid.

2.12 Onsite Comprehensive Warranty:

e The successful bidder shall provide a Comprehensive Warranty for minimum
period of 2 years (not applicable for consumable item(s)) after the installation
and commissioning of the instrument / software/items. If within a warranty
period after installation any such product or component is proven to be
defective such product shall be repaired or replaced by the supplier/vendor.
Such repair and replacement shall be sole obligation of supplier/vendor.
Supplier / vendor shall be responsible for payment for all charges (to-and-fro)
for repair/ replacement. Any design defects or installations deficiencies or
any outer defects, if noticed during the warranty/ maintenance period, shall
be rectified promptly by the successful bidder with no cost at all the places,
which also includes the field installations.

e Down-time call attendance should be within 48 hrs.

e In case the Equipment / System remains non-operational for more than 5
days then warranty period will be extended for the equal period for which
Equipment / System remained non-operational. Warranty extension in such
case shall be done without prejudice to any other Term & condition of the

contract. Up
/

6|Page


--- Page 8 ---
 

TS WealPrat AIM SERA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

al
2.13 The documentary evidence of the bidders qualification to perform the contract if

the bid is accepted shall establish to the purchasers satisfaction that:

     

      

| (a) | The bidder meets the qualification criteria listed in bidding documents, if any.
(b) | Bidder who doesn’t manufacture the goods it offers to supply shall submit
Manufacturers’ Authorization Form using the form specified in the bidding
document to demonstrate that it has been duly authorized by the
manufacturer of the goods to quote and / or supply the goods/services.

     
     
            

2.14 The successful bidder has to furnish “Performance Guarantee/Security” (not

applicable for consumable item(s)) for an amount specified in the enquiry by E-
Payment System to NITA Account within 15(fifteen) days of intimation of
contract/supply order.

Alternatively, “Performance Guarantee/Security” will be retained by the Institute
from the billed amount of the contract/supply order which will be released two
months after the completion of warranty period (not applicable for consumable
item(s)).

2.15 Delivery Schedule: As per e-Tender.

The item(s)/goods are required to be delivered at the indenting Department of
National Institute of Technology, Agartala, and must be dispatched within
specified days from the date of placement of the supply/purchase/work order.

If the supplier fails to Supply, Install and Commission the system/instrument as
per specifications mentioned in the order within the due date, the Supplier is
liable to pay liquidated damages of 0.5% of order value per week or part
thereof of delay subject to a maximum of 10%, as the case may be, beyond the
due date. Such money will be deducted from any amount due or which may
become due to the supplier. Any exemption towards delay without LD can be
resolved through mutual consent under exceptional circumstances.

2.16 Force Majeure: Notwithstanding the provisions of clauses relating to Extension

of Time, Penalty and Termination for Default the Supplier shall not be liable for
forfeiture of its Performance Security, Liquidated Damages or Termination for
Default, if and to the extent that, its delay in performance or other failure to
perform its obligations under the Contract is the result of an event of Force
Majeure.

2.17 Evaluation of Bid: The Technical Bid shall be evaluated on the basis of technical

and other parameters usually taken in to consideration. Financial bid shall be
evaluated on the basis of financial parameters. Govt. of India rules shall be
taken in to account for evaluating both technical and financial bids.

2.18 The successful bidder(s) may be required to execute a contrac eo the basis of
evaluation as per annexure(s) (as applicable). ‘


--- Page 9 ---
 

USA WENT VIA BRAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

249

2.22

2.23

2.24

2.25

2.26

8|Page

NIT Agartala will reject a proposal for award if it determines that the Bidder
recommended for award has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt,
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices in competing for the Contract in
question.

The bidder has to submit valid trade license, GST registration certificate, Last
filled ITR and last filed GST return.

Payment: 100% will be made in INR (Indian National Rupees) after
successful Installation, Commissioning of item against submission
of Performance Guaranty (PG) otherwise an equal amount of PG
will be retained by the Institute till the completion of warranty
obligations.

Note: All payments due under the contract shall be paid after deduction of
statutory levies at source (like ESIC, IT (TDS), GST, LBT / Octroi etc.), wherever
applicable.

In the event of any dispute arising out of the bid or from the resultant contract,
the decision of the Competent Authority, National Institute of Technology,
Agartala shall be final.

The bid document/resultant contract will be interpreted under Indian Laws.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala will not take any responsibility for
arranging road permit/way bill or clearance from tax department for delivery of
goods. All such requirements should be completed by the bidder for delivery of
goods at National Institute of Technology, Agartala. GST payment, if required,
should be paid by successful bidder and if GST not paid, National Institute of
Technology, Agartala will deduct the applicable amount from successful bidder's
bills and pay the same to Tax Authority. If there is any mandatory tax(es) other
than GST/other taxes mentioned in this tender document, imposed by State
Govt., the same may also be deducted from the bills of the successful bidder, as
applicable.

Competent Authority of National Institute of Technology, Agartala
reserves the right to cancel the entire e-tendering process at any
stage of the procurement process without mentioning any reason.

Legal disputes, if any with NIT Agartala will be restricted within the
jurisdiction of Agartala only.

Yours er
Registra

National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 10 ---
 

   

Ca
Ser ree we C

Gee

3.

Bie

  

USA WNP A SPAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala

> AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

No.F.NITA.12(94-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics Lab/2024 Date: / /2024

Special Terms & Conditions:

oom

3:2

3.3

3.4

3.9

3.6

3d

3.8

3.9
3.10

Acceptance of Technical bid strictly depends on National Institute of Technology,
Agartala’s requirements credentials, manufacturing capability, quality control
systems, past performance, after-sales service, financial background,
commercial terms & conditions etc. of the supplier(s).

Detailed Specifications, brand, make, model & parts number, tolerance limit,
resolution, corresponding ISO standard etc. of quoted Equipments/Items should
be mentioned with supported leaflet/catalogue/brochure and list of buyers for
acceptance of technical bid.

The technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted through
www.eprocure.gov.in. The technical bids shall be opened and evaluated by the
competent committee/authority. At the second stage, financial bids of only the
technically qualified bidders shall be opened for further evaluation and
recommendations for awarding the purchase order/contract.

It may specifically be mentioned whether quotation is strictly as per terms and
conditions of the tender. Deviation, if any, must be spelt out specifically in
technical bid. In the absence of this, the quotation may be rejected.

Installation & Commissioning: Within 15 (fifteen) days after delivery (if
applicable).

The Quantity of each Item(s)/Equipment(s) may increase (as per Govt. Norms)
or decrease at the time of issued of Purchase / Supply / Work Order. The
Institute reserves right to purchase partly or not to purchase any item / cancel
the entire process at any stage of procurement process.

Penalty: Penalty will be charged @ 0.5 % of per week or part thereof except for
force majeure conditions for the unexecuted part of the supply/work order.

Arbitration: All disputes should be attempted to be resolve mutually between the
National Institute of Technology, Agartala and the suppliers failing which
jurisdiction of any Court of Agartala shall be applicable.

The successful bidder has to give at least 3-4 days on site training for each &
every items/equipments by Certified Person (if required).

Model No. of the product should be given with catalogue (if any).
Items/Goods should be sent through Registered Transporter (preferably).

Bidders are required to upload a declaration on letter head stating that the
bidder has not been black-listed & holida listed by any
Ministry/Department/Organization. ahs


--- Page 11 ---
 

USIy Weal FVII BPM

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

3.12

3.13

10 | Pa ge

Bidder(s) is/are required to upload a self-certificate as per
applicability (Annexure- E or F) regarding offered item(s) as per Office
Memorandum No. 6/18/2019-PPD dated 23-07-2022 & 24-07-2020
and Office Memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8" February,
2021 issued by Department of Expenditure, Procurement Policy
Division, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India.

Bidders are requested to provide valid e-mail ID and phone number for further
communication.

Bank A/C in the Exact Name of Bidder/Firm/Supplier with Name, A/C No., IFSC
code must be furnished with technical bid.

Bidder has to submit annual turnover not less than 7.80 lakh per year with
technical bid for last 3 (three) years. Bidder also has to submit OEM turnover
not less than 61 lakhs per year for last 3(three) years (if bidder is not OEM).

If bidder itself OEM, has to be submit turnover not less than 61 lakhs per year
for last 3 (three) years with technical bid.

Yours sincerely,

y J
RegiStrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 12 ---
(7)
ANNEXURE- B

DETAIL SPECIFICATIONS

01. DC-DC BIDIRECTIONAL BUCK BOOST CONVERTER FOR EV CHARGER WITH
CONTROLLER

 

DC-DC BIDIRECTIONAL CONVERTER:
e 2Nos of Switching device SEMIKRON IGBT Rating @600v,75A ,20khz with proper heatsink and snubber circuit Used to form
power circuit.
BOOST MODE:
I/P voltage range: -min: 24v Dc
O/P voltage range: -max: 48V Dc
Output power: 1000W(max)
Switching Frequency---5-20khz
2 Nos of HCPL316J IC based Negative Turn Off (0-8 to +15v) with short circuit pwm driver circuit used
One Hall effect current sensor used to sense Input current
One Hall effect current sensor used to sense Inductor current and over load trip purpose.
One hall effect voltage sensor used to sense the I/P voltage.
One hall effect voltage sensor used to sense the 0/p voltage.
Voltage ad current sensor o/pts terminated in front panel bs2 connector.
Over load fuse protection available.
Over temperature protection will be provided
One no of 4” cooling fan used to dissipate switching device heat
Controller to be provided at the time of installation

ARTIX7 7 XC7A35T FPGA CONTROLLER:

On-Board Features:
e Xilinx XC7A35T Artix 7 FPGA IC
256Mb SDRAM
8MB SPI FLASH Memory
On-Board USB JTAG Programmer
USB to UART Interface
4 Digit Seven Segment Display
50 MHz Clock
ADC 4 channel 0-3V
Temperature Sensor
LDR Interface
SPI DAC
2x16 LCD Display
16 Slide switches
5 Push Button
5v Buzzer
16 LEDs
31 External I/O's

02. SINGLE-PHASE, 5-LEVEL DIODE CLAMPED INVERTER WITH INBUILT FPGA
CONTROLLER

¢ 8no’s of IGBT rating @600v,15A & 4 Nos Diodes used to form 1 phase 5 level cascaded h-bridge Inverterpower circuit,
e Snubber capacitor provided for dv/dt.

e 8nos TLP250 IC based PWM driver circuit used.

¢ 8no’s of driver circuits used to isolate and Drive IGBT PWM signals.

* 8no’s of Isolated Regulated power supply rating @+15v/0.5A Used for IGBT PWM drivercircuits.

2 no’s of current sensor used to sense the de link current. All sensorO/P’s used for current protection and terminated in front panel
for measurement purpose.

1 no of CT used to sense the 1 phase load currents. The sensor output scaling needs to be mentioned, and the scaling control
knobs must be accessible for the sensors.

¢ Sensor O/P’s will used for over load Trip and terminated in front panel for measurement purpose.
¢ Necessary Interfacing connectors provided for PWM Input from FPGA controller and analog O/P’s to FPGA controller.

Me.

Ge


--- Page 13 ---
ANNEXURE- B

e Over load trip and indication circuit is available.

Over load fuse protection also provided.

2 no’s of 2A single phase 24V isolation transformer and Iph, 6A diode bridge rectifier’s usedto provide the isolated Dc supply
each diode clamped inverter included in each box.

The mentioned above all components covered with a Nice industrial type cabinet and Frontpanel covered with Power circ
mimic diagram sticker and labelling Will be provided for each terminal.

e Each Inverter De Link volt:30V dc max
e Each Inverter o/p voltage :20 Vac rms

Each inverter o/p current :2A max

FPGA Spartan6 Controller:
On-Board Features:
Programming & Memory section

Processor speed 20 MHZ.
57 Individually Programmable GPIO Pins.
4MB On board PROM for standalone program execution memory.

Interfaces

8 outputand 8 input lines with 5V Level.

Isolated serial communication interface through USB connector.
4 position user DIP switch.

8 user LEDs.

2 no of input push switches.

20x4 (or 16x2) LCD interface header.

Headers

2 no’s of 16 pin and 1 no of 10 pin headers for GPIO line termination (49 Pins).
5 pin Unicon connector for power supply (+5V, GND).
20 pin header used to interface 20x4 LCD or 16x2 LCD.

LOAD:

50W Lamp Load TO be provided.

03. SINGLE-PHASE, 5-LEVEL CASCADED SYMMETRIC H-BRIDGE INVERTER WITH INBUILT
FPGA CONTROLLER

8 no’s of IGBT rating @600v,15A used to form 1 phase 5 level cascaded h-bridge Inverterpower circuit,

All IGBT are mounted on proper heat sink. Each H-bridge consist of 4 IGBTS with Anti parallel diodes totally 2 H-bridges used

to form | phase 5level Inverter power module.

Snubber capacitor provided for each H-bridge for dv/dt protection.

Each H-bridge 4nos TLP250 IC based PWM driver circuit used.

8no’s of driver circuits used to isolate and Drive IGBT PWM signals.

8 nos of Isolated Regulated power supply rating @+15v/0.5A Used for IGBT PWM drivercircuits.

2 nos of current sensor used to sense the dc link current. All sensorO/Ps used for current protection and terminated in front panel

for measurement purpose.

1 no of CT used to sense the 1 phase load currents. The sensor output scaling needs to be mentioned, and the scaling contr
knobs must be accessible for the sensors.

Sensor O/P’s will used for over load Trip and terminated in front panel for measurement purpose.

Necessary Interfacing connectors provided for PWM Input from FPGA controller and analog O/P’s to FPGA controller.

Over load trip and indication circuit is available.

Over load fuse protection also provided.

2 no’s of 2A single phase 24V isolation transformer and 1ph, 6A diode bridge rectifiers usedto provide the isolated DC supply 1
each H-bridge inverter included in each box.

The mentioned above all components covered with a Nice industrial type cabinet and Frontpanel covered with Power circu
mimic diagram sticker and labelling Will be provided for each terminal.

Each Inverter DC Link volt:30V de max

Each Inverter o/p voltage :20 Vac rms

Each inverter o/p current :2A max


--- Page 14 ---
 
 

ANNEXURE- B

   

FPGA Spartan6 Controller:
On-Board Features:

Programming & Memory section
e Processor speed 20 MHZ.
e 57 Individually Programmable GPIO Pins.
e 4MB On board PROM for standalone program execution memory.
Interfaces
e 8 output and 8 input lines with SV Level.
e Isolated serial communication interface through USB connector.
e 4position user DIP switch.
e 8user LEDs.
e 2no of input push switches.
e 20x4 (or 16x2) LCD interface header.
Headers
e 2no’s of 16 pin and 1 no of 10 pin headers for GPIO line termination (49 Pins).
e 5pin Unicon connector for power supply (+5V, GND).
e 20 pin header used to interface 20x4 LCD or 16x2 LCD.

Load: 4
> 50W Lamp Load will be provided.

04. STUDY OF VI CHARACTERISTICS OF SCR, TRIAC, IGBT AND MOSFET

It should Consist of power devices SCR, TRIAC, MOSFET, IGBT

eTwo no. of 12V fixed DC power supply and one no of 30V fixed power supplyfor characteristics of all devices

eTwo nos. of potentiometer to vary the gate/base current

e Fixed load resistor

e Power on/off switch provided, LED indication for 12V, 30V

¢ All necessary points terminated in the front panel Provision for connecting ammeter and voltmeter 3 meters (multi meter) are
provided to measure the variouspower devices Current and voltage to find the static characteristics.

e For SCR only forward characteristics can be performed.

05. STUDY OF SINGLE-PHASE FULL WAVE-CONTROLLED RECTIFIER CIRCUITS AND
SEMI CONVERTER(MID-POINT AND BRIDGE TYPE) WITH R AND R-L LOAD

This trainer should consist of two modules can be used to study all types of single-phase half & fully controlled bridge converters
and single-phase AC regulator. It consists of two following modules.
a. Single phase SCR power circuit
eFour thyristor and two diodes are provided
@SCR rating: 1200Volt @ 25 Amp
e The device is mounted on suitable heat sinks and placed inside a nicely designed cabinet
e Snubber circuit is provided to each device
e All SCR and Diode points are terminated at sockets for easy wiring by patch cords
eFacilities are provided for switching ON/OFF, the AC supply to the convertercircuit with fuse and miniature circuit Breaker
protection
¢ Various circuit configurations like half and fully controlled bridge can be wired byinterconnecting the devices using patch cords.
b. SCR pulse controller
e This module can be used to generate SCR Pulse for single phase and three phasehalf & fully controlled converter and ac
regulator.
eOne sucker of Digital Controller based (dsPIC) pulse controller for SCR Powercircuit.
eFive Number of Touch Key Provided for Mode Selection
eOne number of LCD provided to indicate the firing angle value etc
eOne Number of toggle switch provided for Pulse Enable / Disable selection -+Sv 1Amp isolated de supply provided for control
circuits.
¢ All are mounted in a nice powder coated cabinet with stickered front panel withmimic diagram indication
©230VAC input, One number of power on/Off switch with indication
¢One number of 15 pin connector provided for Pulse output to external powermodule
e7 Numbers of test points provided in the front panel for wave form
¢100W/230V lamp with holder will be provided by

  


--- Page 15 ---
 

06. DC-DC Buck Boost Converter

Switching device MOSFET Rating @200V,8A ,20khz with proper heatsink and snubber circuit Used to form power circuit.
One Inductor used to boost the voltage.

I/P voltage range: -max: 12v DC

O/P voltage range: -max: 24V DC

Switching Frequency---5-20khz

TLP 250 IC based pwm driver circuit used

One Voltage divider used to sense the o/p voltage.

Over load fuse protection available.

One dsPIC 4011 based controller used to generate the pwm pulses

4*20Icd used to display the o/p voltage and duty cycle of the pwm. :

One no 0-30V /2A Regulated power will be provided to give variable input voltage.

07. POWER FACTOR CORRECTION (PFC) BASED SETUP AND APPLICATION IN SMPS BOOST
CONVERTER WITH POWER FACTOR CORRECTION

@eeeeee#ene?e#eeeeekesteeeeete &@ @

INo of SEMIKRON IGBT rating @600v/75A with Heat sink and Snubber circuit used to form power circuit.
Ino Ultrafast high frequency Diode used

Ino 2mh/10A Inductor will be used.

1No SKYPER32 R SEMIKRON Based Isolated Negative Turn OFF (-7 to +15v) with High Speed PWM Driver circuits Used.
2 Nos of Current Transducer used for sensing the input and output of the converter current

2 Nos of IC7840 based Voltage Sensing circuit used for sensing the input and output of the converter voltage
I/P--- is 230V AC

O/P is 350VDC

O/P CURRENT---6A

Power Rating is 2000Watts

680mfd/450V electrolytic capacitor will be used

One no (0-900v dc) 72*72MM Analog Volt meter used to indicate the I/P voltage

One no (0-100v dc) 72*72MM Analog Volt meter used to indicate the O/P voltage

1No of 1PH Diode Bridge Rectifier used to convert AC in to DC

One no LC filter will be used in Input AC side

Over Current Protection is available

Short circuit protection Available.

Over voltage Protection Available

Additional External Controller can be interfaced.

Outputs terminated in Banana socket

08. THREE PHASE SCR BASED FULL WAVE RECTIFIERS

3-@ SCR POWER CIRCUIT:

Four thyristors and two diodes will be used

SCR rating @: 1200Volt /25 Amp

All SCR and Diode points will be terminated at sockets for easy wiring by patch cords

One ON/OFF switch will be used for main 230v AC supply

Over load fuse and miniature circuit Breaker protection will be used

Various circuit configurations like half and fully controlled bridge will be wired by interconnecting the devices using patch cords.

SCR PULSE CONTROLLER:
This module will be used to generate SCR Pulse for three phase half & fully controlled converter and ac regulator.

One number dsPic4011controller used for pulse generation for SCR Power circuit.

Five Number of Touch Key will be provided for Mode Selection

One number of 20 x 4 LCD will be provided to indicate the firing angle value etc

One Number of toggle switch should be provided for Pulse Enable / Disable selection

+Sv 1Amp isolated de supply will be provided for control circuits.

All components will be mounted in a nice powder coated cabinet with stickered front panel with mimic diagram indication
415VAC input, one number of power On/Off switch with indication will be used

One number of 15 pin connector should be provided for Pulse output to external power module

7 Numbers of test points will be provided in the front panel for wave form /


--- Page 16 ---
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
   

THREE PHASE RESISTIVE LOAD

e Power- 1KW

“e  Voltage---230v

e 5no’s selector switches will be provided

0.5HP DC SHUNT MOTOR WITH SPRING BALANCE LOAD:

e Armature Voltage-----220v

e = Armature current-----2.5A

e Field Voltage----------- 220Vv

e Speed--------------------- 1500rpm

e One no Proximity sensor used to sense the speed of the motor

09. 3-PHASE SHUNT ACTIVE POWER FILTER (SAPF)

° 110V, 50 Hz, Three phase supply

¢ 500 VA harmonic producing load,

° 1 kVA three phase IGBT based power converter for compensation

*  Multi-parameter for measuring supply voltage, current and other parameters.

* Control algorithm developed in Synchronous Reference Frame

* ARM Cortex M4 32-bit microcontroller based digital controller

* — Intermediate stage test point observations using Two Digital to Analogue Converter (DACs)
* Different test points in control and power

Controller Card:

   

STM32F407VGT MCU @168MHz

Buffered I/O Ports using 74HC573

2 DAC outputs

9 ADC input channels with buffering using LM324 IC
On board QEI (Quadrature Encoder Interface) section
5 Keys push to ground

16*2 LCD (JHD162A) display

UART section (RS-232) (IC Max 232)

RS-485 serial communication port

   

  
  

  

XXXXXXXKKXXXKXKXXXKXXKKXKKKKKKKKK

7

 


--- Page 17 ---
US Weal FI SPAM

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.12(94-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics Lab/2024 Date: / /2024

ANNEXURE — B

PRICE BID

As per BOQ

12|Page


--- Page 18 ---
 

WS Well BA SERA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.12(94-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics Lab/2024/ Date: / /2024
ANNEXURE - C

Documents for Comprising the Bid

Name of the Firm / Agency / Dealer / Supplier with full Yes / No
address including contact number and email id etc.

 

   

COMPLIANCE | Document

Submitted

Yes / NA

Yes / NA

Trade License issued by Government / Statutory Body or
Company Registration on the item(s) related to this tender Yes / No
GST Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder Yes / No

PAN Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder Yes / No
Financial Solvency issued by Bank(as per RBI guidelines) is ik
(in case of estimated cost is Rs.25.00 lakhs and above). weeds
Up to date GST return / any other tax clearance certificate.

(last filed GST return, GSTR 9 and 9B) arm

Yes / NA

 

Yes / NA

Yes / NA

Yes / NA

 
  
 

Yes/ NA

Up to date Income Tax Return (Last filled ITR) Yes / No Yes / NA

“Bid Security Declaration form” on Company Letter Head Yes / No

Yes / NA
Scanned copy to be uploaded along with Technical bid). 7

    
 

Service Support details (if applicable) Yes / No Yes / NA

 

 

13|Page

    

Certification of holiday and non-black listing (Self
Certification
Certification as per memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD
dated 8 February 2021, Dept. of Expenditure, Ministry of

Finance, Govt. of India (Self Certification
Proprietary Certificate from OEM to be uploaded along Yas No
with the Technical Bid in case of Proprietary items

Manufacturers Authorization Form (MAF) (if applicable) Yes / No

Certificate under MSME, NSIC, Make-in-India & Startup as
per Govt. of India Norms (if applicable).

 
      
 

Yes / No Yes / NA

      

Yes / No Yes / NA

Yes/NA

Yes/NA

  

Yes / No Yes / NA

 
 

Experience, if any, with govt. sector /Public Undertaking
/Private sector (if applicable) (May be relaxed for MSME,
NSIC & Startup as per Govt. of India Norm

Any other criteria related to this tender. Yes / No

Supplier/Firm/Bidder should accept all Terms &
Conditions and specification of the items given in the
Tender Document.

 
 

Yes / No Yes / NA

  
  

   

  

Yes /NA

          
 
 

   

Yes / No

    

   

 

(Signature of the bidder)

gs


--- Page 19 ---
US WNP A SPAM

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

eee ee eee ae,
No.F.NITA.12(94-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics Lab/2024 Date: / /2024
Annexure-D

Bid Securing Declaration Form

DBC Pda Piwkcolasee cot avon Terider- Ret. No: cis...6.5.cccssieeecesse Tender ID: «00... ccceccceacesess

To (insert complete name and address of the purchaser)
I/We. The undersigned, declare that:

I/We understand that, according to your conditions, bids must be supported by a Bid Securing
Declaration.

I/We accept that I/We may be disqualified from bidding for any contract with you for a period of one
year from the date of notification if I am /We are in a breach of any obligation under the bid conditions,
because I/We

a) have withdrawn/modified/amended, impairs or derogates from the tender, my/our Bid during the
period of bid validity specified in the form of Bid; or

b) having been notified of the acceptance of our Bid by the purchaser during the period of bid validity
(i) fail or reuse to execute the contract, if required, or (ii) fail or refuse to furnish the Performance
Security, in accordance with the Instructions to Bidders.

I/We understand this Bid Securing Declaration shall cease to be valid if I am/we are not the successful
Bidder, upon the earlier of (i) the receipt of your notification of the name of the successful Bidder; or
(ii) thirty days after the expiration of the validity of my/our Bid.

Signed: (insert signature of person whose name and capacity are shown)

in the capacity of (insert legal capacity of person signing the Bid Securing Declaration)
Name: (insert complete name of person signing he Bid Securing Declaration)

Duly authorized to sign the bid for an on behalf of (insert complete name of Bidder)

Dated on day of (insert date of signing)

Corporate Seal (where appropriate)

(Note: In case of a Joint Venture, the Bid Securing Declaration must be in the name of all partners to
the Joint Venture that submits the bid)

14|Page


--- Page 20 ---
WS Wel FM SPAM

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.12(94-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics Lab/2024 Date: / /2024

Annexure-E

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(as applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated
23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021
regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules (GFRs), 2017.

Pe ee Pe ee ee ace el
BR i eee

PE I ca hah Gos hdmi aes SR a een oa (name of the bidder company) have
read the clauses pertaining to the Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public
Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref. F.No.6/18/2019-
PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder
of a country that shares a land border with India.

We hereby certify that we are not from such a country and eligible to be considered for
this tender.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment, (if any),
by any bidder(s) shall lead to commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-Agartala)

For and Behalf of 2... ..0.....0.cc0s0000000 (Name of the bidder) =

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

15|Page


--- Page 21 ---
US Wealhihl BA SPAM

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.12(94-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics Lab/2024 Date: / /2024
Annexure-F

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(as applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated
23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021
regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules (GFRs), 2017.

eee Se Oe ee eee
Peme e

ON ee a sap 3 2 wane bs ane aco dg ae ae ean oe (name of the bidder company) have
read the clauses pertaining to the Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public
Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref. F.No.6/18/2019-
PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder
of a country that shares a land border with India.

We are from such a country which shares a land border with India & have been
registered with the Competent Authority as specified in the above-said order. We hereby
certify that we fulfill all requirements in this regard and are eligible to be considered.

Evidence of valid registration by the Competent Authority is attached.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment, (if any),
by any bidder(s) shall lead to commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-Agartala)

Por and DeMgil OF o.oo. sce 4 oi vnnid vase ove custo oiiases (Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

16|Page


--- Page 22 ---
UST WIP! AIM SEMA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.12(94-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics Lab/2024/ Date: / /2024
Annexure -G

Self-Certification on the letterhead of the compan

 

In line with Government Public Procurement Order No. P-45021/2/2017-BE-II dt.
15.06.2017, P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 28.05.2018, P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II)
dated 29.05.2019 and P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 16.09.2020,

WE Tay CTE Tae oii cons ow chao vs tds ssa vaso ve deaap bore (Supplier name) are
local supplier meeting requirement of minimum local content......................05. %
defined in as above orders for the material against Enquiry / Tender No
ag gasice diene spats liad meu gas wks wan gen Oo os OUR Ze esters ssest cnet

Details of the location at which local value addition will be made are as follows:

SOHO Pee eee EH EEE HEE HEHEHE HEH HEE HEH HEHEHE HEE TEE HEE EEE EHH EHH EEE EEE EEE HOT HES ESE EHH E ESET OE HOLES EEE HE SEES
ee eee eee eeerereeeeseeeeee eee ree eee EEE EE EEE ESET EERE EERE EEE HEHEHE ERE EHO HEHEHE EEE RE HEE EEE EEE EE EEE EOE EE O®
Cee e ee eeee reteset ees ee ee EEE HEE EEE EEE EEE HEE HET EEE HEHEHE HEE EEE EEE HEHEHE HEHEHE HEHEHE EEE ESET E SED EO EEOC

Ce ee

We also understand false declarations will be in breach of the Code of Integrity under
Rule 175(1)(i)(h) of the General Financial Rules for which a bidder or its successors can
be debarred for up to two years as per Rule 151 (iii) of the General Financial Rules along
with such other actions as may be permitted under law.

Date: Signature:

Place: Name and Designation:
Mobile no:
Office Telephone No:

Email ID: Office Seal

17|Page


--- Page 23 ---
US Werth A SERA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.12(94-EE)/Procurement Power Electronics Lab/20247..2=~=~*~C“«~‘“C*‘“‘*‘“‘:‘“‘*‘*‘*‘“:*‘C*«~éiSa:«~<C*é«*«CS*é«O
Annexure -H
NON BLACKLISTING SELF CERTIFICATE
[To be submitted on letterhead]
I/We hereby certify that the -------------------------------------------- [Name of the company
/ firm] has not been ever blacklisted/debarred by any Central / State Government / Public

Undertaking / University / Institute on any account.

I/We also certify that firm will provide material as per the specification given by NIT
Agartala and also abide all the terms and conditions stipulated in the bid document.

I/We also certify that the information given in bid is true and correct in all aspects and in
any case at a later date it is found that any details provided are false and incorrect,
contract given to the concerned firm or participation may be summarily terminated at
any stage, the firm will be blacklisted and NIT Agartala may impose any action as per
the rules.

Date : Name :
Place:

Business Address:

Signature of Service Provider:

Seal of the Service Provider:

1|Pa

ge
a
