
--- Page 1 ---
 

 

° |
use senha Ra sera
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Fax : 0381 254-6360, Website : http// www.nita.ac.in

   

J
2(26-PURY2023/ BbEIbF Date:/P 7 of /2025

E-Tender Notice

 

 

 

On behalf of National Institute of Technology Agartala, bids are invited in sealed cover from the
reputed resourceful Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/ Authorized Suppliers for supply of item(s)/goods
as per specification mentioned in Annexure of tender document available at our website www.nita.ac.in.

™ .
SL. Os Estimated cost | Last date of receipt Time and date of
N ed Ref. No. Items R f tender opening of
° S 5 (Rs.) or ren Technical bid

Answer
; Purchase | No.F.NITA.22(26- Script | se gooooo9 | (/ (282025 [12 1 68/2025
Section PUR)/2023/ Loose Sheet oe _ Up to 3:00 PM At 3:00 PM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

L po

The interested Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/Authorized Suppliers may arrange online

submission of the tender through www.eprocure.gov.in along with scan copy of essential documents mentioned in
the tender document.

 

Tender(s) is/are to be submitted only online through central public procurement portal i.e.
http://eprucure.gov.in”. All the documents are to be scanned and uploaded along with the tender documents.

“

Tender sent by any other mode will not be accepted.

 

 

 

 

I Registrar
Registrar
NIT Agartala
Copy to:
1. The P.S. to the Director for kind information.

2. The Nodal Officer, e-Procurement, NITA with a request to kindly arrange uploading the
Tender Documents in the CPP portal https://eprocure.gov.in/cppp.
3. Mr. Kamal Kanti Paul, System Administrator, Computing & ICT Unit with a request to uploading

the Tender documents in the Institute website site.
t "Wh

4. The Deputy Registrar (F & A).
Registrar

NIT Agartala

¢

 

Jno


--- Page 2 ---
Weal AWEIPIh! FRM SPM AT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.22(26-PUR)/2023/ 3.66 1-64 Date: (} / 05/2025

E- Tender Enquiry
IMPORTANT INFORMATION

Name of the Institute : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TE CHNOLOGY AGARTALA

GST Number of the Institute : 16AAAGNO0550K1ZG

PAN of the Institute : AAAGNO550K

TAN of the Institute : SHLN00719F

DSIR No. _ TU/V/RG-CDE(1053)/2022 dated 18/12/2022

Institute Bank A/C No. 030936141729 (IFSC: SBIN0011491) under SBI, NIT Agartala
: Branch.

Name of Department / Branch : Purchase Section

Enquiry / Reference Number > No.F.NITA.22(26-PUR)/2023/

Some important/Critical dates: .

Date: 12 /O¥ 2025 Time: 3:00 PM

Details of e-tender document.

      
   

 
 
  
 
    

NIT, Agartala intends to purchase the commodities/serrie(s) specified in Annexure enclosed and invites
quotations in accordance with the terms and conditions detailed in the bid document. If you are interested, kindly

submit your offer with prices within the time mentioned above fulfilling all the terms and conditions marked in the

bid documents.

é

 

nsw) —

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

Encl :

(4) Schedule of requirement, specifications, dates etc.
(2) Bid document containing detail terms and conditions.

1 ‘Page so


--- Page 3 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

Answer Script/Answer Book and Loose Sheet Answer Script- A Series, 24 pages)
(Details as per list at Annexure-A,B & C) 1,20,000 nos (Annexure-A)

Answer Script- 14 pages- 1,20,000 nos
(Anexure-B)

Loose Sheet -4 pages -- 2,00,000 nos
(Annexure-C)

 

2. Specifications and allied Technical Details
Answer Script/Answer Book and Loose Sheet

   

(Details as per list at Annexure-A, B & C)

 

 

1. Estimated Cost
16,00,000.00
0
2. Quotations should be valid for a period of 180 days from the opening date of the technical bid.
3. Bid Security or EMD: 2% of the estimated cost of the tender or Bidders should submit “Bid Security Declaration

Form” on company letter head as per annexure-D of this-tender document.
4. Performance Security: The amount of the Performance Security shall be 5%(five percent) (not applicable for
consumable item(s)) of the Purchase Order / Contract value, valid up to 60 days after the date of completion of

contract obligations including warranty obligations.

5. Delivery Option: 60 (sixty) days after receipt of the purchase/work order(s).

6. Please go through the enclosed “bid document” carefully for other bidding instructions.
7. For any technical details, you may contact through email-id: nitatenders@gmail.com .

Yours s{ncerely,

‘
Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

2|Page


--- Page 4 ---
 

Uses Wearihl FAT SRAM

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

No.F.NITA.22(26-PUR)/2023/ Date: / /2025
BID DOCUMENT
1. Instructions to the bidders:
1.1 Bids are invited through e-tender on behalf of the National Institute of Technology Agartala, Tripura,

1.2 The bidders should quote their rates in clear terms without ambiguity. The quotation should be only in
Indian Rupees.

1.3 The last date & time for submission of the bid is marked in the enquiry.

1.4 The bids should be submitted online through www.eprocure.gov.in before the last date & time of
submission specified in tender document.

1.5 Bids received after the deadline of receipt indicated in para 1.4 above, shall not be taken into
consideration.

1.6 Each bidder shall submit only one bid against one enquiry. A bidder, who submits more than one bid
against single enquiry, shall be disqualified and considered non-responsive.

1.7 The bidder has to enclose a check list at per Annexure - C duly filled in along with all relevant/supporting
documents while submitting technical bid through www.eprocure.gov.in.

1.8 Opening of Bids by the Purchaser will be done as per the provisions of the e-procurement system.

1.9 At any time prior to the due date for submission of bids, the Purchaser may, for any reason, whether at its.
own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by a prospective bidder, modify the bidding
documents by amendment.

1.10 All prospective bidders are expected to surf the website before formulating and submitting their bids to
take cognizance of the amendments.

2. General Terms & Conditions:

2.1 The rates quoted by the Supplier/Bidders should preferably be on basic price, GST, packing,
forwarding, freight, Insurance and all other incidental charges including delivery of the Materials at
National Institute of Technology, Agartala.

2.2 All taxes and duties will be paid extra and such amounts of mandatory/statutory taxes & duties shall
be explicitly mentioned in BOQ while submitting of bid. If GST amount not quoted in the BOQ
(price bid), the total cost will be treated as inclusive of GST.

2.3 Price has to be filled through CPP portal as per BOQ (https://www.eprocure.gov.in). The scanned copy of
Price Bid, dully filled in, has to be uploaded on the above e-procurement site. The prices filled in the e-
procurement site will be treated final and shail be binding to the vendor.

2.4 Insurance: The Goods supplied under the Contract shall be fully insured against any loss or damage
incidental to manufacture or acquisition, transportation, storage and delivery up to the final destination.

2.5 Conditional discount, if any, offered by the bidder shall not be considered at the time of evaluation.

2.6 The bidders who are registered as a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under
MSME rules, Govt. of India for exemption of submitting EMD/Bid security must enclose relevant
documentary proof of authentication of their firm’s registered as a Micro or Small Enterprise as per
latest definitions under MSME rules, Govt. of India.

2.7 If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME rules, the bidder shall be
exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is
OEM of the offered products, it would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria. In
case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turmover /Experience Criteria, the supporting documents to
prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded with technical bid.

2.10 If the bidder is a Start-up, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover" criteria

3|Page

Agartala-799046 from the intending bidders for supply of the goods/stores/ equipments/Learning
resources for the Institute as detailed in the enquiry letter.

and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the offered products, it would also be exempted from
the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria. In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover /
Experience Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded

with technical bid.


--- Page 5 ---
 

2.12

2.13

 
   
 
 
 

2.14

2.15

2.16

2.17

2.18

2.19

2.20

2.21

4|Page

UWS Wealth FIM SPA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

National Institute of Technology, Agartala is following and abide with the Public Procurement (Preference
to Make in India), Order 2017, DIPP, MoCI Order No. P-45021/2/2017-B.E.II dated 15th June 2017 and
subsequent amendments to the order. Accordingly preference will be given to the Make in India products
while evaluating the bids, however, it is the sole responsibility of the bidder(s) to specify the product
quoted by them is of Make in India product along with respective documentary evidence as stipulated in
the aforesaid order in the technical bid itself. A self-declaration as per Annexure- G should be enclosed in
the technical bid.

On site Comprehensive Warranty:

e The successful bidder shall provide a Comprehensive Warranty for minimum period of | year (not
applicable for consumable item(s)) after the installation and inspection of the items. If within a
warranty period after installation any such product or component is proven to be defective such product
shall be replaced by the supplier/vendor. Such replacement shall be sole obligation of supplier/vendor.
Supplier / vendor shall be responsible for payment for all charges (to-and-fro) for replacement. Any
design defects or installations deficiencies or any outer defects, if noticed during the warranty/
maintenance period, shall be rectified promptly by the successful bidder with no cost at all the places,
which also includes the field installations.

The documentary evidence of the bidders qualification to perform the contract if the bid is accepted shall
establish to the purchasers satisfaction that:

   
 

The bidder meets the qualification criteria listed in bidding documents, if an
Bidder who doesn’t manufacture the goods it offers to supply shall submit Manufacturers’
Authorization Form using the form specified in the bidding document to demonstrate that it has been
duly authorized by the manufacturer of the goods to quote and / or supply the goods/services.

The successful bidder has to furnish “Performance Guarantee/Security” (not applicable for consumable

item(s)) for an amount specified in the enquiry by E-Payment System to NITA Account within 15(fifteen)

days of intimation of contract/supply order.

Alternatively, “Performance Guarantee/Security” will be retained by the Institute from the billed amount

of the contract/supply order which will be released two months after the completion of warranty period

(not applicable for consumable item(s)).

Delivery Schedule: As per e-Tender.

The item(s)/goods are required to be delivered at the indenting Department of National Institute of

Technology, Agartala, and must be dispatched within specified days from the date of placement of the

supply/purchase/work order.

If the supplier fails to Supply, Install and Commission the system/instrument as per specifications mentioned in

the order within the due date, the Supplier is liable to pay liquidated damages of 0.5% of order value per week

or part thereof as the case may be, beyond the due date. Such money will be deducted from any amount due or

which may become due to the supplier. Any exemption towards delay without LD can be resolved through

mutual consent under exceptional circumstances.

Force Majeure: Notwithstanding the provisions of clauses relating to Extension of Time, Penalty and

Termination for Default the Supplier shall not be liable for forfeiture of its Performance Security,

Liquidated Damages or Termination for Default, if and to the extent that, its delay in performance or other

failure to perform its obligations under the Contract is the result of an event of Force Majeure.

Evaluation of Bid: The Technical Bid shall be evaluated on the basis of technical and other parameters

usually taken in to consideration. Financial bid shail be evaluated on the basis of financial parameters.

Govt. of India rules shall be taken in to account for evaluating both technical and financial bids.

The successful bidder(s) may be required to execute a contract on the: basis of evaluation as per

annexure(s) (as applicable).

NIT Agartala will reject a proposal for award if it determines that the Bidder recommended for award has,

directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices in competing

for the Contract in question.

The bidder has to submit valid trade license, GST registration certificate, Last filled ITR and last filed

GST return.

Payment: 100% will be made in INR (Indian National Rupees) after successful supply and Inspection
of item against submission of Performance Guaranty (PG) otherwise an equal amount of PG
will be retained by the Institute till the completion of warranty obligations.

  

     

-Note: All payments due under the contract shall be paid after deduction of statutory levies at source

 

(like ESIC, IT (TDS), GST, LBT / Octroi etc.), wherever applicable.

   


--- Page 6 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

2.23

2.24
2.25

2.26

2.27

In the event of any dispute arising out of the bid or from the resultant contract, the decision of the
Competent Authority, National Institute of Technology, Agartala shall be final.

Printing Quality: Printing Quality of the answer book should be readable otherwise NIT Agartala
not bound to make any payment.

The bid document/resultant contract will be interpreted under Indian Laws.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala will not take any responsibility for arranging road permit/way
bill or clearance from tax department for delivery of goods. All such requirements should be completed by
the bidder for delivery of goods at National Institute of Technology, Agartala. GST payment, if required,
should be paid by successful bidder and if GST not paid, National Institute of Technology, Agartala will
deduct the applicable amount from successful bidder’s bills and pay the same to Tax Authority. If there is
any mandatory tax(es) other than GST/other taxes mentioned in this tender document, imposed by State
Govt., the same may also be deducted from the bills of the successful bidder, as applicable.

Competent Authority of National Institute of Technology, Agartala reserves the right to cancel the
entire e-tendering process at any stage of the procurement process without mentioning any reason.

Legal disputes, if any with NIT Agartala will be restricted within the jurisdiction of Agartala only.

3. Special Terms & Conditions:

3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

3.6

3.7
3.8

3.9

3.10
3.11

5|Page

Acceptance of Technical bid strictly depends on National Institute of Technology, Agartala’s requirements
credentials, manufacturing capability, quality control systems, past performance, after-sales service,
financial background, commercial terms & conditions etc. of the supplier(s).

Detailed Specifications, brand, make, corresponding ISO standard etc. of quoted Equipments/Items should
be mentioned with supported leaflet/catalogue/brochure and list of buyers for acceptance of technical bid.

The technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted through www.eprocure.gov.in. The technical
bids shall be opened and evaluated by the competent committee/authority. At the second stage, financial
bids of only the technically qualified bidders shall be opened for further evaluation and recommendations
for awarding the purchase order/contract.

It may specifically be mentioned whether quotation is strictly as per terms and conditions of the tender.
Deviation, if any, must be spelt out specifically in technical bid. In the absence of this, the quotation may
be rejected.

The Quantity of each Item(s)/Equipment(s) may increase (as per Govt. Norms) or decrease at the time of
issued of Purchase / Supply / Work Order. The Institute reserves right to purchase partly or not to purchase
any item / cancel the entire process at any stage of procurement process.

Penalty: Penalty will be charged @ 0.5 % of per week or part thereof except for force majeure conditions
for the unexecuted part of the supply/work order.

Arbitration: All disputes should be attempted to be resolve mutually between the National Institute of
Technology, Agartala and the suppliers failing which jurisdiction of any Court of Agartala shall be
applicable.

Items/Goods should be sent through Registered Transporter (preferably).

Bidders are required to upload a declaration on letter head stating that the bidder has not been black-listed
& holiday listed by any Ministry/Department/Organization.

Bidder(s) is/are required to upload a self-certificate as per applicability (Annexure- E or F)
regarding offered item(s) as per Office Memorandum No. 6/18/2019-PPD dated 23-07-2022 & 24-07-
2020 and Office Memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8" February, 2021 issued by
Department of Expenditure, Procurement Policy Division, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India.

Bidders are requested to provide valid e-mail ID and phone number for further communication.
Bank A/C in the Exact Name of Bidder/Firm/Supplier with Name, A/C No., IFSC code must be furnished
with technical b

Yous sincerely,

4

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 7 ---
  
 
      
 
      
   
   
     
   
   
    
    

Answer Scripts “A” series

Description of the Items

    

 

Each Containing:
1.

RON

Nan

ANNEXURE - A

24 pages. The front and its back pages to be printed as per
the sample provided.

Paper: Good Quality writing paper (Cream wave), 7OGSM.
Finishing Size (Nominal) = 22x28cm. .

Pages: 24(twenty four) pages including printed front and its
back page as per sample provided.

Centrally stitched / stapled along the fold.

Pore for attaching loose sheet in the top left hand corner.
Perforated material / text / symbol (NI T A) in the top right
hand corner.

Serial Number in each answer script with batch code “A”.
Any other specification: sample will be provided along with
work order.

pew
get

 


--- Page 8 ---
ANNEXURE - B

  

Each Containing:
1. 14 pages. The front and its back pages to be printed as per

the sample provided.

Paper: Good Quality writing paper (Cream wave), 7OGSM.

Finishing Size (Nominal) = 22x28cm.

Pages: 14{fourteen) pages including printed front and its

back page as per sample provided.

Centrally stitched / stapled along the fold.

Pore for attaching loose sheet in the top left hand corner.

Perforated material / text / symbol (NIT A) in the top right

hand corner. ,

8. Serial Number in each answer script with batch code “B’.

9. Any other specification: sample will be provided aleng with
work order.

 

Answer Scripts “B” series

    
    
   
 
     
 

kod

 
 
 
     
 

Nan

  
  

 

 
    


--- Page 9 ---
Loose Sheets

 

ANNEXURE - C

Each Containing:

4 pages. The front page to be printed as per the sample
provided.

Paper: Good Quality writing paper (Cream wave), 70GSM.
Finishing Size (Nominal) = 22x28cm.

Pages: 4(four) pages including printed front page as per

1.

sample provided.

Pore for attaching loose sheet in the top left hand corner.
Perforated material / text / symbol (N I T A) in the top right
hand corner.

Serial Number in each answer script with batch code “C’.
Any other specification: sample will be provided along with
work order.

wn Men
gp 0

 

 


--- Page 10 ---
TSSg Wear GIT SET
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F NITA.22(26-PUR)/2023/ Date: / /2025

ANNEXURE - B

PRICE BID

As per BOQ

7|Page


--- Page 11 ---
Wl Wella FIA SET

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

 

No.F.NITA.22(26-PUR)/2023/ Date: / /2025
ANNEXURE -— C

Documents for Comprising the Bid

TENDER REQUIREMENT COMPLIANCE

Name of the Firm / Agency / Dealer / Supplier with full address including
ws Yes/No
contact number and email id etc.

Trade License issued by Government / Statutory Body or Company

Document
Submitted

     
    
 

 

1 Yes/NA

Registration on the item(s) related to this tender. Yes/No Yes/NA
P| GST Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder. Yes /NA

PAN Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder Yes/No Yes/NA

Up to date GST return / any other tax clearance certificate. (last filed GST

return, GSTR 9 and 9B) Yes/No Yes /NA

—
N
..
.

Annual Turnover Yes/No Yes/NA

 
    

Up to date Income Tax Return (Last filled ITR) Yes/No Yes/NA

“Bid Security Declaration form” on Company Letter Head

(Scanned copy to be uploaded along with Technical bid). Yes/No Yes /NA

Service Support details (if applicable) Yes/No Yes/NA
Se Certification of holiday and non-black listing (Self Certification) Yes/No Yes/NA

 

Certification as per memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8
February 2021, Dept. of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India Yes / No Yes/NA
(Self Certification)

Yes /No Yes /NA

  

Certificate under MSME, NSIC, Make-in-India & Startup as per Govt. of
. : . Yes/NA
India Norms (if applicable).

Experience, if any, with govt. sector /Public Undertaking /Private sector (if
14 applicable) (May be relaxed for MSME, NSIC & Startup as per Govt. of Yes/No Yes/NA

 
 
  

India Norm)

Any other criteria related to this tender. Yes / No Yes /NA

Supplier/Firm/Bidder should accept all Terms & Conditions and
specification of the items given in the Tender Document. Yes / No

 

 

(Signature of the bidder)

$|Page sec te


--- Page 12 ---
USA WeaNPThl AA SERA
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.22(26-PUR)/2023/ Date: / /2025

Annexure-D

Bid Securing Declaration Form

Date: .....cccccec cee ceceeeeeeeeeees Tender Ref. No: ..........c.cccececeeeeee Tender ID: ............ccccec sence

To (insert complete name and address of the purchaser)
I/We. The undersigned, declare that:
I/We understand that, according to your conditions, bids must be supported by a Bid Securing Declaration.

I/We accept that I/We may be disqualified from bidding for any contract with you for a period of one year from the date of
notification if I am /We are in a breach of any obligation under the bid conditions, because I/We

a) have withdrawn/modified/amended, impairs or derogates from the tender, my/our Bid during the period of bid validity
specified in the form of Bid; or

b) having been notified of the acceptance of our Bid by the purchaser during the period of bid validity (i) fail or reuse to
execute the contract, if required, or (ii) fail or refuse to furnish the Performance Security, in accordance with the Instructions

to Bidders.

I/We understand this Bid Securing Declaration shall cease to be valid if I am/we are not the successful Bidder, upon the
earlier of (i) the receipt of your notification of the name of the successful Bidder; or (ii) thirty days after the expiration of the
validity of my/our Bid.

Signed: (insert signature of person whose name and capacity are shown)

in the capacity of (insert legal capacity of person signing the Bid Securing Declaration)
Name: (insert complete name of person signing he Bid Securing Declaration)
Duly authorized to sign the bid for an on behalf of (insert complete name of Bidder)
Dated on day of (insert date of signing)
Corporate Seal (where appropriate)

(Note: In case of a Joint Venture, the Bid Securing Declaration must be in the name of all parmers to the Joint Venture that
submits the bid)

9|Page


--- Page 13 ---
Wy WaIPTl A SERA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.22(26-PUR)/2023/ Date: / /2025
Annexure-E

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(as applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No.
F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021 regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules
(GFRs), 2017.

[Tem Names
[EnquiryNow

We MIS, 20... .cccceccee ene ve rece cee eseeeseteaeeeegen nesses (name of the bidder company) have read the clauses pertaining to the
Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref.
F.No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country that
shares a land border with India.

We hereby certify that we are not from such a country and eligible to be considered for this tender.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment, (if any), by any bidder(s) shall lead to
commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-Agartala)

For and behalf of ................-2 2. ee eee (Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

10 ‘Page. ae


--- Page 14 ---
TSS WIP Ae SPLAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.22(26-PUR)/2023/ Date: / /2025
Annexure-F

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(as applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No.
F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021 regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules
(GFRs), 2017.

[Item Names
[EnquiryNow Pd

We MIS. 0.2... .ccceccecceeececee cence eneneeneeeaeaee ees (name of the bidder company) have read the clauses pertaining to the
Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref.
F.No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country that
shares a land border with India.

We are from such a country which shares a land border with India & have been registered with the Competent Authority
as specified in the above-said order. We hereby certify that we fulfill all requirements in this regard and are eligible to be
considered.

Evidence of valid registration by the Competent Authority is attached.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment, (if any), by any bidder(s) shall lead to
commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-Agartala)

For and behalf of ......... 0.0... ccc cece eee eee eee cues (Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

li|Page a


--- Page 15 ---
WS WaT! AIM SERIA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.22(26-PUR)/2023/ Date: / /2025

Annexure -G

Self-Certification on the letterhead of the company

In line with Government Public Procurement Order No. P-45021/2/2017-BE-II dt. 15.06.2017, P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II)
dated 28.05.2018, P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 29.05.2019 and P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-ID dated 16.09.2020,

We hereby certify that ........0.. 0c eee eee eee eee eee e nena e tenes (Supplier name) are local supplier meeting requirement of
minimum local content................cccee eee % defined in as above orders for the material against Enquiry / Tender No

We also understand false declarations will be in breach of the Code of Integrity under Rule 175(1)(i)(h) of the General
Financial Rules for which a bidder or its successors can be debarred for up to two years as per Rule 151 (iti) of the General
Financial Rules along with such other actions as may be permitted under law.

Date: Signature:
Place: Name and Designation:
Mobile no:

Office Telephone No:
Email ID: Office Seal

12|Page


--- Page 16 ---
WS Wer FIM SPA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.22(26-PUR)/2023/ Date: / /2025
Annexure -H
NON BLACKLISTING SELF CERTIFICATE
[To be submitted on letterhead]
I/We hereby certify that. the -------------------------------------------- [Name of the company / firm] has not been ever

blacklisted/debarred by any Central / State Government / Public Undertaking / University / Institute on any account.

I/We also certify that firm will provide material as per the specification given by NIT Agartala and also abide all the terms
and conditions stipulated in the bid document.

I/We also certify that the information given in bid is true and correct in all aspects and in any case at a later date it is found

that any details provided are false and incorrect, contract given to the concerned firm or participation may be summarily
terminated at any stage, the firm will be blacklisted and NIT Agartala may impose any action as per the rules.

Date : Name :

Place :

Business Address:

Signature of Service Provider:

Seal of the Service Provider:

13|Page
