
--- Page 1 ---
CI,
Page 1 of 51
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,
AGARTAI.A
Barjata, Jirania, P.O- NIT Agartata, West Tripura, Pin: - 799046,
Urt :- www.nita.ac.in
DNIeT No.; 137 INITA/Estate Etect. 12022-23
Name of Work:
"Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for
14 (Fourteen) numbers of Johnson make lifts
installed at NIT Agartala campus. "
Certified thot this DNIeT contoins 51 (Fifty One) pages numbered from I to 51
M
W
#Wdh*s,ffi**$*.g
)
.E (Etect. A
Draft Notice lnviting e-Tender contoining 51 (Fift ') pages is hereby APPROVED
Contractor or and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 51
v
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
!,
INDEX
Contents Page No.
SL.
No.
A Notice lnviting e-Tender 3
B Schedute of lmportant Events / Activities 4
c Guidetines for e-Tendering 6
D Other information and terms & conditions 8
E Bidder Quatification Criteria 13
F List of Documents to be scanned and uptoaded 14
14
G Safety Codes
14
H Fire Safety
Form of Performance Security (Guarantee) 15
I
J lntegrity Pact 17
K Agreement 25
L GeneraI Condition of Contract 28
M Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions of Contract 29
N Formats for Different Forms/Certificates 36
o Financiat Bid 51
For and on behatf of NIT Agartata
Contractor
Vf,'

--- Page 3 ---
Page 3 of 51
ftdrffi
rtq?T {{€nT srrpffi1
National lnstitute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura, tndia, pin-- T99046
PRESS NOTICE tNVtTtNG e,TENDER
File No. F. NITA-23(2T!E)/Estate Etect/202\ t 6 I g - Ltt Date:-lti0$zOzq
I)
-(P|\l-e-
on behal l' ol N Il A ga.tala' the Registrar N I I' A gartalrr ittvite Pcrcentage rare e-rcntle r fiom the eligiblc registered biclclcr lirr 0 i
(.I'hree) nos' dif]'erent types ot'Electrical rvork upto 05:00 I,M on[g!o712024. Iror derails, please visitXg4urvw.grg..asj! a
Ittps://eplncure.eoy.in. Date of opening of bicl onlf,!Ol!Z}Z+ at I I:00 AM.
Any subsequent colrigendurn wiil be availabre in the rvebsite only.
Registrar. NI-l Agartala
t*::r#f i,ffi::"8,ff,,.ffi f ffi ilffi [;::li":i:i,::,i,"#' :,:l,i[,fl*;:1"f*f H*';lil;il,l Public Sector LJndcr.taking /
_lt]teqt l gg' ..tlgryrl firrns as per ltrllowirre tahles. 31tf ,)/MESRailwayIP&1<tr
r,,),*,i,,7-r;W;T,'",* i"T;{J=:mff-
fl, ";l- I tlate ofOpening (tf I
I possihle)
I
I I I
lcu,npr.l,",rrir. o,r,uo,
Ill
' I Mairrrenance Conrracr ftx la I I llritially for a I II
l1:;1ilil1l,,o""Jr.rl'll,,.,,,ll l Rs e3'000' I 'iillJi' I o'. ,.,0,r- I ,,1f:#,33fi, 1 (a t t g ll.0 lq 0A p M o ) za I I
I
_i____:_l_l_"_.lll
permitted.
i [ i u ; r i, n i e lli s ! t , , M i,i o ,i n i e !' y ,, ( : R :; e : ' ; fu ', n ,? do f, b i, le :: ) . o s n B d I N B 0 itl 0 F t1 'e 4 dt s e t n , t le M r I c ( o ,R s(N N on o ' : R 7 e e .f i u 0 n 0 d 2 a s b 2 te s ) , ' a s r t e ,i 'i r o . n h * e 'o p f a -id tn / d rr i a a n , s . i f i e r r re i d i" s i e i , , p r o , ra re B r r y a n to c h th , e th I r n o s u t g itu h r c r it A e r c :< tr : o ou n n i. t
Bid(s) shall bc opcnecl through onlirlc by respr:ctive []irl ope.ers on behall<rfthe NI'r'Agartara anrl thc sanre shirll be trccessiblc b'
openl ng.
l;trrattyenc1tlit.y'plcascct>Ittactbyc-ntiriltor.
Aru rulra.or"nt .o.rin.n,tu- ,ni]l b. rurilrbl. in t]rf r".hiit
l)etails are available in the Institutc's rvebsite: h1tpftyw1v.qit1a.g.in & httns://enrocure,sov.in
.$'),-I
t)
:il'
',4i
Contractor
For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 5t
rrfrffi{€msrrrffiTr
National lnstitute
of Technology
Agartala
Agartala, Tripura, lndia, pin-_ 799046
NOTTCE tNV|T|NG eTENDER
Ref: eTender Notice No. F.NrrA-z3(Z7zE)Estate
Elect .lzozz
; t N h li l e r J u A il n g l d t a * e rt r a c l m a r i e t i e n n r v ti i i o a te n s e m d o e n n w l t i o i n o r e n k e i a t d e t m i N n l r r t a h A t e e g a t t e r e ta n n l d d a e e f r r r o t d h m o ro c t u u h g m "e h e e n e li t - g . p i T b ro l h e c e u b r d i e d e m d ta e e i r n r s s t a a p s r o e p r t e a g r i l v t f e h o n e r
schedule of rmportant Events / Activities
A.1 lnformation Retated to Bid
DNIeT No. : 137lNtTA/Estate
Etect./ZOZZ-23
Name of Work "Comprehensive Annual llaintenance Contract
for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of Johnson make
Lifts installed at NIT Agartala campus.,,
Earnest Money Deposit Rs..93,000/- (Rupees Ninety Three Thousand
(Rs.) Only) by e-payment through etectronic mode.
Tender Processing Fee Rs. 1,500/- by e-payment through etectronic
(Rs.)
mode (Non-Refundabte)
Contract period b ln e iti a e l x ly te f n o d r e a d p t e o ri o 4 d t h o & f 3 5 (T ,n h r ) e ^ e * ) ye L a a r s s e a O n d o n it w th it t
satisfactory performance
and suUiect to approval
the authoritv.
On-Line mode only
z^\ryV
Contractor
For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 51
v
A.2
Key Events and Dates
@t
4.2.1 Pubtishing Date
o|iLoLl
Lsl
Period of seeking ctarification upto o5:oo PM on
4.2.2
lrt
1 1:00 Ar\{ onol/ ollzoz Office
of the Dean P&D, Administrative
A.2.3 Pre-Bid Meeting
Btock-1, 2nd Floor, NIT Agartata.
Those who are interested can attend.
Last date and time of ctosing of
uploading/ontine submission of tender uoto oJ,$o PM on 16 | o11LoL\
4.2..4 inctuding scanned copy of EMD and
tender Processing Fee detaits/ receipts
and other documents as specified
*"1
Date & Time of ontine opening of -gr%H". l810fl
A.2.5
technical bid
Date and Time of opening of financial
4.2.6 Wilt be notified at a later date
bid of quatified bidders
A.3
Other lmportant lnformation Retated to Bid
Performance 5% of tendered vatue on acceptance of bid.
A.3.1
Guarantee
Bidders wil[ have to deposit the Tender Processing Fee and
EMD through On-Line mode onty. Details for the same are as
below:
Name of beneficiary :NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Mode of AGARTALA
Address
payment of : Barjata, Jirania, West Tripura-799046
A.3.2 Tender No.
Account : No.30936141729,
Processing
MICR No:799002525
Fee and EMD
Bank
Name of the :State Bank of lndia
Address of the bank :NlT Agartata
Code
IFSC : SB1N0011491
Bidders wit[ have to upload scanned copy of Payment detaits
towards cost of tender processing fee & EMD during the
submission of tender and the same witt be accepted onty on
verification & confirmation by the Institute. Any detay in credit
witl not be entertained bv the lnstitute.
A.3.3 Bid Vatidity 180 Days fro*m thev date of opening of Technicat Bid
/ffi\,-
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 6 ---
Page 5 of 51
Guidelines for e-Tendering
B.1
lt is mandatory for att the appticants to have ctass ll or lll digitat signature
certification from licensed certifying agency tike Nlc, MTNL, e-mudra, Tcs,
safescrypt, GNFC etc.
8.2
Detaited NIT can be viewed free of cost on NIT Agartata website under the
9 b n e t i d llg llwww.n!ta.ac.in/tenderg! . Schedute of quantities (Financiat bid form) can
Uptoading of
!e1derwittbepossibteon[yaftermakingssingFee-and
EMD.
B.3
The tender shatl be submitted ontine in the prescribed format before the
date and time as mentioned in NlT. No other mode of submission is acceptabte.
P:1 The appticant have to uptoad the detaits of e-payment of processing fee &
EMD before the last date & time and downtoad the tender documents form the e-
te n de ri n g porta I httos : //eo roc u re. qov. i n/eo rocu relaoo.
B.5 Tenderer are advised to uptoad their documents wetl in time to avoid last
minute rush on the server or comptication in uptoading. NIT Agartata witt not be
responsibte for any type of probtem in uptoading the doCuments. No hard copies for
tender submission sha[[ be entertained.
8.6
Ontine bid documents submitted by intending bidders shatt be opened onty
of those bidders, who has deposited e-Tender Proceising Fee and Earnest rVtoney
Deposit and other documents scanned and uptoaded are rouna in order.
8.7 lnformation and lnstructions for bidders posted on website shatl form part
of bid document.
8.8
The bid document consisting of ptans, specifications, the schedute of
quantities of various types of items to be executed and the set of terms and
conditions of the contract to be comptied with and other necessary documents can
be seen and downtoaded from website httos://eorocure.eov.in/ejrocure/aop free
of cost.
8.9
Bids from Joint Ventures are not acceptabte.
Bt10
On opening date, the contractor can login and see the bid opening process.
After opening of bids he witt receive the competifor, bid sheets
1
B.1 Contractor can uptoad documents in the form of JPG format and pDF format.
r\
+,/
Contractor
For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 51
8,12
The price bid format is provided in a spread sheet file like BoQprice
bid.xls, the rates offered should be entered in the allotted space only and uploaded
after fitling the relevant columns. The Price Bid/BOQ template must not be
modified/replaced by the bidder; else the bid submitted is liable to be rejected for
this tender.
8.13
Contractor must ensure to quote rate of each item. Therefore, if any cett is teft
btank and no rate is quoted by the bidder, rate of such item shatt be treated as "0"
(ZERO).
8.14
The technicat bid witt be opened ontine first on due date and time as mentioned
above. The time and date of opening of financial bid of contractors quatifying the
technical bid shatt be communicated to them at a later date.
8.15
Compteted Tenders containing technicat bid and price bid witt be received
ONLINE onty on CPP Portal website httos://eprocure.eov.in/eorocure/aoo at the fixed
time and date indicted in the NlT. The Tenderer witt be at tiberty to be present either in
person or through an authorized representative at the time of opening of the Technical
Bid with the Bid Acknowtedgement Receipt or they can view the bid opening event ontine
at their remote end.
8.16
lf there are any ctarifications, this may be obtained ontine through the tender
site, or thro' the contact detaits. Bidder shoutd take into account the corrigendum
pubtished before submitting the bids ontine.
8.17
lt is construed that the bidder has read att the terms and conditions before
submitting their offer. Bidder shoutd go through the tender schedules carefutty and uptoad
the documents as asked; otherwise, the bid witt be rejected.
8.18 The bidder has to digitatty sign and uptoad the required bid documents one by
one as indicated. Bidders to note that the very act of using DSC for downtoading the bids
and uptoading their offers shatt be deemed to be a confirmation that they have read atl
sections and pages of the bid document inctuding Generat conditions of contract without
any exception and have understood the entire document and are ctear about the
requirements of the tender requirements.
B.19
The bidders are requested to submit the bids through ontine e-tendering system
to the Tender lnviting Authority (TlA) wett before the bid submission end date & time (as
per Server System Ctock). The TIA witl not be hetd responsibte for any sort of detay or the
difficutties faced during the submission of bids ontine by the bidders at the eteventh hour.
Tenderers are advised to uptoad their documents wetl in time to avoid [ast minute rush on
the server.
8.20
The time settings fixed in the server side & disptayed at the top of the tender
site, witl be vatid for atl actions of requesting, bid submission, bid opening etc., in the e-
tender system. The bidders shoutd fottow this time during bid submission.
#V
/\^t'-
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 8 ---
Page 8 of 51
Other information and terms & conditions
:l
c.1 The bid submitted shatl become invatid and e-tender processing fee shatt
not be refunded if:
.
lf the bidder is found inetigibte.
.
lf the documents submitted by the successfut bidder does not
match with the originats before the award of work.
c.2 The Contractors/companies that were btack tisted at any stage need
not to appty.
C.3
The Turnover certificate from CA (chartered accountant) for three years
showing annual turnover which shoutd not be less than Rs. 25 Lakhs in average. As
per Annexure-2 Scanned copy of certificate from chartered accountant to be
uptoaded.
C.4
lF ANY INFORMATION FURNISHED by the appticant is found to be incorrect
at a later stage, they shatt be [iabte to be debarred from tendering/ taking up
works in NIT AGARTALA.
C.5
The competent authority on behatf of the Director NIT Agartata does not
bind itsetf to accept the lowest or any other bid and reserves to itsetf the authority
to reject any or att the bids received without the assignment of any reason. At[
bids in which any of the prescribed condition is not futfitted or any condition
inctuding that of conditiona[ rebate is put forth by the bidders shatt be summarity
rejected.
C.6
Canvassing whether directty or indirectty, in connection with bidders is
strictty prohibited and the bids submitted by the contractors who resort to
canvassing witt be tiabte for rejection.
C.7
The competent authority on behatf of the Director, NIT Agartata reserves
to himsetf the right of accepting the whote or any part of the bid and the bidders
shatt be bound to perform the same at the rate quoted.
C.8
The bid for the works shall remain open for acceptance for o period of
ninety (180) days from the date of opening of technical bid. lf any bidders
withdraws his bid before the said period or issue of letter of acceptance,
whichever is eartier, or makes any modifications in the terms and conditions of the
bid which are not acceptabte to the department, then the NIT Agartata shatt,
without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at tiberty to forfeit 100% of the
said earnest money as aforesaid. Further the bidders shatl not be attowed to
participate in the rebidding process of the work.
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 9 ---
Page 9 of 51
C.9
This notice inviting Bid shatt form a part of the contract document. The
successfut bidders/contractor, on acceptance of his bid by the Accepting Authority
shatt within 15 days from the stiputated date of start of the work, sign the contract
consisting of : -
' The Notice lnviting Bid, att the documents inctuding additional conditions,
specifications, General Conditions of Contract and drawings, if any, forming part
of the bid as uptoaded at the time of invitation of bid and the rates quoted ontine
at the time of submission of bid and acceptance thereof together with any
correspondence leading thereto.
.
Any other Standard CPWD Form /other forms as applicabte/mentioned.
C.10
Mode of payment of Tender Processing Fee and EMD: Bidders may deposit
the Tender Processing Fee and EMD through ontine mode onty. Detaits for the same
are as betow:
Name of beneficiary NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Address Barjata, Jirania, West Tripura-799046
Account No. No. 309361 41729, MICR No:799002525
Name of the Bank :State Bank of lndia
Address of the bank :NlT Agartala
IFSC Code sBrN0011491
Bidders witl have to uptoad scanned copy of Payment detaits towards cost of tender
processing fee & EMD during the submission of tender and the same witt be accepted
onty on verification & confirmation by the lnstitute. Any detay in credit witl not be
entertained by the lnstitute.
c.11 TAXES: .
i) This is Comprehensive Annuat Maintenance Contract. The taxes as appticabte
shatt be deducted from each bitt paid to the contractor.
i) Item rate shoutd be With/without GST (GST shat[ be paid extra).
ii) lncome Tax and Cess as appticabte shat[ be deducted from each bitt paid to
the contractor.
iii) Contractor shoutd be registered under EPF and as per [aw, shatl pay EPF of
contract workers to concerned Department from time to time.
iv) Any other taxes/cess as per Government directives shat[ be deducted from
each bitt paid to the contractor from time to time or as per rute in case of
manufacturer.
C.12
For any queries regarding e-tendering process, the bidders are requested
to contact as provided in the tender document. Parattety, for any further queries,
the bidders may send a mait over to estateetectricat.nita@emait.com &
estatesectioncivit@emai [. com
v,*'-
w
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 10 ---
Page 10 of 51
C.13 utfiot
The specifications, Terms & Conditions, other regutations which
herein mentioned witt be guided by relevant CPWD guidetines, manual,
specifications / BIS / lS/ Other Centrat / State Govt. norms appticabte for NIT Agartata &
as prescribed by the OEM and the decision in this regard witt be guided by the decision of
the respective authority of NIT Agartata which shatt be final and binding to the contractor.
C,14
Tender documents may be downtoaded from Centrat Pubtic Procurement
PortaI https: / /eprocure.qov.in/eprocure/app. Aspiring Bidders/ Supptiers who
/
have not enrotted registered in e-procurement shoutd enrotl /register before
participating through the website https: I leprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. The
portat enrotment is free of cost.
C.15
Tenderers can access tender documents on the website, fitt them with
att retevant information and submit the completed tender document into
etectronic tender on the website httLs: / /eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.
c.16 Tenders and supporting documents shoutd be uptoaded through e-
Procurement. Hard copy of the tender documents witl not be accepted.
C.17
ln the event of acceptance of a tender, the documents submitted by the
successful bidder shatt be verified with the originats before the award of work.
C.18
The tenderer shoutd not have been btacktisted or debarred by any
Centrat/ State / Pubtic Agency from carrying out simitar business during last three
financiatyears.
C,19
The party whose tender has been accepted has to execute an agreement
on non- judiciat stamp paper immediatety after work order is issued.
C.2O
Performance guarantee in the form DD/BC @ 5% of tendered amount has
to be furnished within 7 days of issue of LOA.
C.21
lf catted for, originats of the document submitted shatt be produced.
C,22
Latest General condition of contract (GCC) of CPWD witt be appticabte to
the extent retevant to the job.
C.23
The security deposit witt be cottected by deductions from the running
bitts of the Bidders at the rate 10% inctuding earnest money and "Performance
Bank Guarantee" (5%).The earnest money and Performance Bank Guarantee shatl
be treated as part of security deposit. A sum @ 10% of the gross amount of the bitt
shatl be deducted from each running bitt of the Bidder titt the sum atong with the
earnest money and "Performance Bank Guarantee"(5%). equat to amount of 10% of
the bided vatue of the work.
C,24
Any dispute is subject to the jurisdiction of Civit Court Tripura.
C.25 This work covers "Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 14
{Fourteen) numbers of Johnson make Lifts installed at NIT Agartala campus"
Contractor For a hatf of NIT Agartata
M 7*tt---

--- Page 11 ---
Page 11 of 51
v
c.26 The work shatt be executed as per CPWD general specifications for
etectrical works (Part-lll - Lifts & Escatators -2003) with upto date amendments as
per retevant lS/ BIS /Other CentratGovt./state Govt. norms, OEM standards appticabte
and as per directions of Engineer-in-Charge. These additional specifications are to
be read in conjunction with above. However, nothing extra shatl be paid on account
of these additionat specifications & conditions as the same are to be read atong with
schedule of quantities for the work.
C.27
Necessary ctarification required by the NIT Agartata shat[ have to be
furnished by the Tenderer within the time given by the NIT Agartala for the same.
The Tenderer witl have to depute his representative to discuss with the officer(s)
of the NIT Agartata as and when so desired. ln case, in the opinion of the NIT
Agartata a Tenderer is taking undue long time in furnishing the desired
ctarifications, his bid witt be rejected without making any reference.
c.28 A tenderer will also not be ollowed to withdraw or modify ony
condition ot o time after the technical bids have been accepted ond the
decision to open the price bid hos been taken by the NIT Agartola.
c.29 The Tenderer shoutd in his own interest visit the site and famitiarize
himsetf with the site conditions before tendering.
c.30 No T&P shatt be issued by the NIT Agartata and nothing extra shalt be
paid onaccount of this.
c.31 The Tenderer witl have to fitt up their rates onty in the price bid in BoQ
format inctusive of Taxes, packing & transportation charges or any other charges
of the materiats. Tenders in which the price bids are given in any other format are
tiabte to be rejected.
C.32
The NIT Agartata reserves the right to reject any or atl the price bids and
catl for fresh prices/ tenders as the case may be without assigning any reason.
C.33
At[ materiats, artictes and workmanship shatt be of respective best
quatity and kind for the ctass described in the schedute of quantities and
specifications. At[ materiats, so used in different items of work shatl be subject to
the approval of the Engineer- in-charge.
c.34 The payment shatl be on item rate basis and on the actuat quantity
executed under AMC Services.
C.35
No extension of time shatl be granted to the contractor on account of
rains or inctement weather conditions.
c.36 Terms of Payment:
Payments shatt be released as per General Conditions of contract and the fottowing
conditions.
o
The payment witt be made Hatf-Yearty on receipt of your bitts and supporting
G documents after satisfactory and successfuI comptetion.
o
lf the work carried out by the contractor is not satisfactory, NIT Agartata shatl
Contractor on behatf of NIT Agartata
/
^ftL

--- Page 12 ---
Page 12 of 51
v
hotd such bitts titt satisfactory services are provided.
.
Any amount due from the contractor to NIT Agartata witt be recovered from his
bitt.
C.37
Performance Guarantee:
The contractor whose bid is accepted witt be required to furnish performance
guarantee of 5/o (Five Percent) of the bid amount within Seven days of issue of LOl.
This guarantee may be in the form of Banker's cheque of iny nationatized
bank/Demand Draft of any nationatized bank. ln case the contiactor faits to
deposit the said performance guarantee within the period as indicated above,
inctuding the extended period (Maximum attowabte extension with another 07 dayi
with late fee @ 0.1Yo per day of Performance Guarantee amount), the Earneit
Money deposited by the contractor shatt be forfeited automaticatty without any
notice to the contractor.
C.38
Refund of performance guarantee: The performance guarantee shatt be
refunded to the contractor two months after the comptetion of the work.
C.39
COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND INDIAN STANDARDS: Att works
shatt be carried out in accordance with retevant regutation, both statutory and
those specified by the lndian Standards retated to the works covered by ihese
specifications.
C.4O
INDEMNITY: The successful tenderer/bidder shatt at alt times indemnify
the NIT Agartala, consequent on this works contract. The
successful
tenderer/bidder shatt be liabte, in accordance with the lndian Law and Regutations
for any accident occurring due to any cause and the NIT Agartata shatt not be
responsibte for any accident or damage incurred or ctaims arising there from
during the contract period under the supervision of the successfut tenderer/bidder
in so far as the latter isresponsible.
C.41
Mobilization advance: Not Appticabte.
v
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 13 ---
Page 13 of 51
D. Bidder Qualification Criteria
r
Contractors who fulfil the followine reouirements shall ONLY be oualified for financial
bid ooenins:
1.
Work Experience: The bidders having experience of successfutty compteted
Lift AMC works during the last 3 years ending tast day of the month previous to
the one in which apptications are invited. The works completed up to previous
doy of last date of submission of tenders sholl also be considered.
7.
Annual Financial Turnover: The Turnover certificate from CA (chartered
accountant) for three years showing annual turnover which shoutd not be less
than Rs. 50 Lakhs in average. As per Annexure-2 Scanned copy of certificate
from chartered accountant to be uptoaded.
3. Setf dectaration by bidder that they have not been btacktisted by any
Ministry/Department/Govt. organization of Centrat/State or any Pubtic sector
organization or there is no [itigation with any organization on account of
simitar type of services as per Annexure-3.
4.
Setf dectaration by bidder that no Judicial case is pending in court of law
against firm as per Annexure-3.
5.
Duty signed dectaration regarding acceptance of terms and conditions of the
tender by bidder as per Annexure-4.
6.
Previous experience for tast 3 years & work in hand. (Specific work comptetion
certificate with satisfaction &, work orders shatl be produced.)
7.
Personal and Bank detaits of bidder as per Annxure-S.
8. Certificate from the Manufacturer of Lifts, certifying the bidder as the
authorized representative / Deater / Vendor of the Manufacturer.
9.
Certificates: (scanned copy of original certificates to be uptoaded)
A.
Copy of Certification of lncorporation/ Registration of firm
B.
PAN (Permanent Account Number)
C.
GST (Goods & Service Tax) Registration Certificate
D.
E-payment detaits towards cost of tender processing fee & EMD.
Y
w /.d--
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 14 ---
Page 14 of 51
List of Documents to be scanned and uploaded
While submitting bid, the Scanned copies of the fotlowing originat
certificates are to be uploaded:
i)
Certificates of Work Experience: Work Orders along with Comptetion
Certificates issued by any officer of the Department.
ii)
Certification of Registration of firm / company
iii)
CA Certificate for Annua[ FinanciatTurnover for the FY 19-20,20-21,21-22.
iv)
PAN (Permanent Account Number)
v)
GST (Goods & Services Tax) Registration Certificate
vi)
Bank Account Detait.
vii)
EPF & ESIC registration certificates
viii) E-payment detaits towards cost of tender processing fee & EMD
ix)
Aadhaar card copy of the authorized officer of the company/firm
who witl be signing agreement etc.
x)
Undertaking having gone through the documents as per the Annexure-1.
xi)
Any other document that bidder fett necessary in support of his candidature.
xii) Schedute of Price Bid in the form of Bo[.xts
F.
i Safety Codes
Retevant safety codes of the CPWD to the extent applicabte to the NIT
Agartata. Decision in this regard witt be governed by the competent authority
of NIT Agartata which shatl be final and binding to the contractor.
G. Fire Safety
I
This witt be as per the Fire Safety codes of the CPWD to the extent appticabte
to the NIT Agartata. Decision in this regard witt be governed by the competent
authority of NIT Agartata which shatt be final and binding to the contractor.
Contractor For and behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 15 ---
Page 15 of 51
H. Form of Performance Security (Guarantee)
I
Form of Performance Security (Guarantee) Bank Guarantee Bond
ln consideration of the Director, Nlf Agartata (hereinafter catted "The NIT
Agartata") having offered to accept the terms and conditions of the proposed
between... ............and
agreement (hereinafter catted
"the said Contractor(s)") for the work..........
(hereinafter catted "the said agreement") having agreed to production of an
irrevocabte Bank
Rs. (Rupees
Guarantee for ..... onty) as a
security/guarantee from the contractor(s) for comptiance of his obtigations
in accordance with the terms and conditions in the said agreement.
1. .
W€, ... (hereinafter referred to as "the Bank")hereby
undertake to pay to the NIT Agartata an amount not exceeding Rs.
(Rupees.
..... Onty) on demand by the NIT Agartata.
2. W€, (indicate the name of the Bank) do hereby
undertake to pay the amounts due and payabte under this guarantee without
any demure, merety on a demand from the NIT Agartata stating that the
amount ctaimed as required to meet the recoveries due or tikety to be due
from the said contractor(s). Any such demand made on the bank shatt be
conctusive as regards the amount due and payabte by the bank under this
Guarantee. However, our tiabitity under this guarantee shat[ be restricted to
Rs.....
an amount not exceeding . (Rupeesonty)
3.
We, the said bank further undertake to pay the NIT Agartata any money
so demanded notwithstanding any dispute or disputes raised by the
contractor(s) in any suit or proceeding pending before any court or Tribunat
retating thereto, our tiabitity under this present being absotute and
unequivocat. The payment so made by us under this bond shatt be a vatid
discharge of our tiabitity for payment thereunder and the Contractor(s) shatt
have no ctaim against us for making such payment.
4. .........
W€, ....... (indicate the name of the Bank) further agree
that the guarantee herein contained shatl remain in futl force and effect
during the period that woutd be taken for the performance of the said
agreement and that it shatl continue to be enforceabte titt att the dues of the
NIT Agartata under or by virtue of the said agreement have been futty paid
and its claims satisfied or discharged or titt Engineer-in- Charge on behatf of
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata
w \rZ
l^tr.___,
(/

--- Page 16 ---
Page 16 of 51 v
the NIT Agartata certified that the terms and conditions of the said
agreement have been futty and property carried out by the said Contractor(s)
and accordingty discharges this guarantee.
5. ..........
We, ...... (indicate the name of the Bank) further agree
with the NIT Agartata that the NIT Agartata shatl have the futtest tiberty
without our consent and without affecting in any manner our obtigation
hereunder to vary any of the terms and conditions of the said agreement or
to extend time of performance by the said Contractor(s) from time to time or
to postpone for any time or from time to time any of the powers exercisabte
by the NIT Agartala against the said contractor(s) and to forbear or enforce
any of the terms and conditions retating to the said agreement and we shat[
not be retieved from our tiabitity by reason of any such variation, or extension
being granted to the said Contractor(s) or for any forbearance, act of
omission on the part of the NIT Agartata or any indutgence by the NIT
Agartata to the said Contractor(s) or by any such matter or thing whatsoever
which under the law retating to sureties woutd, but for this provision, have
effect of so retieving us.
6. This guarantee witt not be discharged due to the change in the
constitution of the Bank or the Contractor(s).
7. .
We , . (indicate the name of the Bank) tastty undertake
not to revoke this guarantee except with the previous consent of the NIT
Agartata in writing.
8. to
This guarantee shatl be vatid up ...........untess extended on
demand by the NIT Agartata. Notwithstanding anything mentioned above, our
tiabitity against this guarantee is restricted to Rs............. (Rupees..............
)
and untess a ctaim in writing is todged with us within six months of the date of
expiry or the extended date of expiry of this guarantee atl our tiabitities under
the..
this guarantee shatl stand discharged. Dated .....day of
.....for... ..... (indicate the name of the Bank).
t'-
I$\ /
L
fof
Contractq; For and on behal NIT Agartata

--- Page 17 ---
G
Page 17 of 51
l.
r lntegrity Pact
INTEGRITY PACT
fo,
Sub: DNIeT No.: 137lNITA/Estate Etect. 12022-23 for the work of
"Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of
Johnson make Lifts instatted at NIT Agartata campus"
Dear Sir,
It is here by dectared that NIT Agartata is committed to fottow the principte of
transparency, equity and competitiveness in pubtic procurement. The subject
Notice lnviting e-Tender (NlT) is an invitation to offer made on the condition
that the Bidder witt sign the integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of
tender/bid documents, faiting which the tenderer/bidder wit[ stand disquatified
from the tendering process and the bid of the bidder woutd be summarity
rejected.
This dectaration shatl form part and parcet of the lntegrity Agreement and signing
of the same shatl be deemed as acceptance and signing of the lntegrity
Agreement on behatf of the NIT Agartata.
Yours faithfutty
Registrar, NIT Agartata
q/tu
("
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 18 ---
Page 18 of 51
Letter of TransmittaI
To,
The Registrar,
NIT Agartata,
Sub: DNIeT No.: 137lNITA/Estate Etect. /2022-23 for the work of
"Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of
Johnson make Lifts installed at NIT Agartala campus"
Dear Sir,
l/We acknowtedge that NIT Agartata is committed to fottow the principtes
thereof as enumerated in the lntegrity Agreement enctosed with the tender/bid
document.
l/We agree that the Notice lnviting Tender (NlT) is an invitation to offer made
on the condition that l/We witt sign the enctosed integrity Agreement, which is
an integral part of tender documents, faiting which l/We witt stand disquatified
from the tendering process. l/We acknowtedge that THE MAKING OF THE BID
SHALL BE REGARDED AS AN UNCONDITIONAL AND ABSOLUTE ACCEPTANCE of this
condition of the NlT.
l/We confirm acceptance and comptiance with the lntegrity Agreement in letter
and spirit and further agree that execution of the said lntegrity Agreementshatt
be separate and distinct from the main contract, which witt come into existence
when tender/bid is finatty accepted by NIT Agartata. l/We acknowledge and
accept the duration of the lntegrity Agreement, which shatt be in the line with
Articte 1 of the enctosed lntegrity Agreement.
l/We acknowtedge that in the event of my/our faiture to sign and accept the
lntegrity Agreement, white submitting the tender/bid, NIT Agartata shatl have
unquatified, absotute and unfettered right to disquatify the tenderer/bidder and
reject the tender/bid is accordance with terms and conditions of the tender/
bid.
Yours faithfutty
f-,-
(Duly authorized signatory of the Bidder)
M V
Contractgr For and on behatf of NIT Agartala

--- Page 19 ---
Page 19 of 51
INTEGRITY AGREEMENT
This lntegrity Agreement is made at ... ..... on this.. .. day of
2021
BETWEEN
The Director, NIT Agartata represented through Registrar, NIT Agartata,
(Principat /Owner)
AND
(Name and Address of the
lndividuat/firm /Company)
Through
(Hereinafter referred to as the (Detaits of duty authorized signatory)
"Bidder/Contractor" and which expression shatl untess repugnant to the
meaning or context hereof inctude its successors and permitted assigns)
Preambte
WHEREAS the Principal /Owner has floated the Tender vide DNIeT No.:
137lNITA/Estate Elect.l2022-23 (Hereinafter referred to as "Tender/Bid")
and intends to award, under laid down organizational procedure, contract for
"Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of
Johnson make Lifts installed at NIT Agartala campus" hereinafter referred to
as the "Contract".
AND WHEREAS the Principat/Owner vatues futt comptiance with att retevant laws
of the [and, rutes, regutations, economic use of resources and of
fairness/transparency in its retation with its Bidder(s) and Contractor(s).
AND WHEREAS to meet the purpose aforesaid both the parties have agreed to
enter into this lntegrity Agreement (hereinafter referred to as "lntegrity Pact"
or "Pact"), the terms and conditions of which shatt atso be read as integral part
and parcet of the Tender/Bid documents and Contract between the parties.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of mutual covenants contained in this Pact,
the parties hereby agree as fottows and this Pact witnesses as under:
q/
N t"'-
(
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 20 ---
Page 20 of 51
Articte 1: Commitment of the Principat/Owner
(1) The Principat/Owner commits itsetf to take att measures necessary to prevent
corruption and to observe the fottowing principtes:
(a)
No emptoyee of the Principat/Owner, personatty or through any of
his/her famity members, witt in connection with the Tender, or the execution of
the Contract, demand, take a promise for or accept, for setf or third person, any
material or immateria[ benefit which the person is not tegatty entitted to.
(b)
The Principat/Owner witt, during the Tender process, treat att Bidder(s)
with equity and reason. The Principat/Owner witt, in particutar, before and
during the Tender process, provide to att Bidder(s) the same information and wit[
not provide to any Bidder(s) confidentiat / additionaI information through which
the Bidder(s) coutd obtain an advantage in retation to the Tender process or the
Contract execution.
(c)
The Principal/Owner shattendeavour to exctude from the Tender process
any person, whose conduct in the past has been of biased nature.
(2) lf the Principat/Owner obtains information on the conduct of any of its
emptoyees which is a criminaI offence under the lndian Penal code
(lPC)/Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (PC Act) or is in viotation of the
principtes herein mentioned or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard,
the Principat/Owner witt inform the Chief Vigilance Officer and in addition can
atso initiate disciptinary actions as per its internaI taid down poticies and
procedures.
Articte 2: Commitment of the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)
(1) lt is required that each Bidder/Contractor (inctuding their respective
officers, emptoyees and agents) adhere to the highest ethical standards, and
report to the NIT Agartata / Department att suspected acts of fraud or
corruption or Coercion or Cottusion of which it has knowtedge or becomes aware,
during the tendering process and throughout the negotiation or award of
a
contract.
0 The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) commits himsetf to take att measures
necessary to prevent corruption. He commits himsetf to observe the fottowing
principtes during his participation in the Tender process and during the Contract
execution:
(a)
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) witI not, directty or through any other
person or firm, offer, promise or give to any of the Principat/Owner's employees
invotved in the Tender process or execution of the Contract or to any third person
Contractgr For and grybehatf of NIT Agartata
& Y ,tu'--'

--- Page 21 ---
Page 21 of 51
any materiat or other benefit which he/she is not tegatty entitted to, in orderto
obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever during the Tender
process or during the execution of the Contract.
(b)
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not enter with other Bidder(s) into any
undisctosed agreement or understanding, whether formal or informat. This
applies in particutar to prices, specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts,
submission or non-submission of bids or any other actions to restrict
competitiveness or to cartelize in the bidding process.
(c)
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) witl not commit any offence under the
retevant IPC/PC Act. Further the Bidder(s)/ Contract(s) witt not use improperly,
(for the purpose of competition or persona[ gain), or pass on to others, any
information or documents provided by the Principat/Owner as part of the
business retationship, regarding ptans, technical proposats and business detaits,
inctuding information contained or transmitted etectronicatty. (d) The
Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of foreign origin shatt disctose the names and addresses
of agents/ representatives in lndia, if any. Simitarty Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of
'
lndian Nationatity shatt disctose names and addresses of foreign
agents/representatives, if any. Either the lndian agent on behatf of the foreign
principal or the foreign principal directty could bid in a tender but not both.
Further, in cases where an agent participate in a tender on behatf of one
manufacturer, he shatt not be attowed to quote on behatf of another
manufacturer atong with the first manufacturer in a subsequent/parattel tender
for the same item.
(d)
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) witt, when presenting his bid, disctose any
and att payments he has made, is committed to or intends to make to agents,
brokers or any other intermediaries in connection with the award of the
Contract.
O The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) witt not instigate third persons to commit
offences outlined above or be an accessory to such offences.
(4)
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) witl not, directty or through any other
person or firm indutge in fraudutent practice means a wittfut misrepresentation
or omission of facts or submission of fake/forged documents in order to induce
pubtic official to act in retiance thereof, with the purpose of obtaining unjust
advantage by or causing damage to justified interest of others and/or to
inftuence the procurement process to the detriment of the NIT Agartata
interests.
O The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) witt not, directty or through any other
person or firm use Coercive Practices (means the act of obtaining something,
competling an action or inftuencing a decision through intimidation, threat or the
use of force directty or indirectty, where potential or actual injury may befatt
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata
& V
/6v\-
(
w

--- Page 22 ---
Page 22 of 51
upon a person, his/her reputation or property to inftuence their participation in
the tendering process).
Articte 3: Consequences of Breach
Without prejudice to any rights that may be available to the Principat/Owner
under law or the Contract or its estabtished poticies and laid down procedures,
the Principat/Owner shatl have the fottowing rights in case of breach of this
lntegrity Pact by the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) and the Bidder/ Contractor accepts
and undertakes to respect and uphotd the Principat/Owner's absotute right:
O lf the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s), either before award or during execution of
Contract has committed a transgression through a viotation of Articte 2 above or
in any other form, such as to put his retiabitity or credibitity in question, the
Principat/Owner after giving 14 days notice to the contractor shatl have powers
to disquatify the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) f rom the Tender process or
terminate/determine the Contract, if atready executed or exctude the
Bidder/Contractor from future contract award processes. The imposition and
duration of the exctusion witt be determined by the severity of transgression and
determined by the Principat/Owner. Such exclusion may be forever or for a
limited period as decided by the Principat/Owner.
Q) Forfeiture of EMD/Performance Guarantee/Security Deposit: lf the
Principat/Owner has disquatified the Bidder(s) from the Tender process prior to
the award of the Contract or terminated/determined the Contract or has accrued
the right to terminate/determine the Contract according to Articte 3(1), the
Principat/Owner apart from exercising any tegal rights that may have accrued to
the Principat/Owner, may in its considered opinion forfeit the entire amount of
Earnest Money Deposit, Performance Guarantee and Security Deposit of the
Bidder/Contractor.
0) Criminal Liabitity: lf the Principat/Owner obtains knowtedge of conduct
of a Bidder or Contractor, or of an employee or a representative or an associate
of a Bidder or Contractor which constitutes corruption within the meaning of IPC
Act, or if the Principat/Owner has substantive suspicion in this regard, the
Principat/Owner wit[ inform the same to law enforcing agencies for further
investigation.
Articte 4: Previous Transgression
(1)
The Bidder dectares that no previous transgressions occurred in the last
5 years with any other Company in any country confirming to the anticorruption
approach or with Central Government or State Government or any other
Centrat/State Pu p btic r oSecctoer s En s te . rp rises in lndia that;ryutd justify his exctusion
rrom the render y q/ pr-,-
Contracter For and on behatf of NIT Agartala

--- Page 23 ---
Page 23 of 51
(71 lf the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be
disquatified from the Tender process or action can be taken for banning of
business deatings/ hotiday tisting of the Bidder/Contractor as deemed fit by the
Principat/ Owner.
(3)
lf the Bidder/Contractor can prove that he has resorted / recouped the
damage caused by him and has instatted a suitabte corruption prevention system,
the Principat/Owner ffidy, at its own discretion, revoke the exctusion
prematurety.
Articte 5: EquaI Treatment of att Bidders/Contractors/Subcontractors
(1) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) undertake(s) to demand from att
subcontractors a commitment in conformity with this lntegrity Pact. The
Bidder/Contractor shatI be responsibte for any viotation(s) of the principtes taid
down in this agreement/Pact by any of its Subcontractors/sub-vendors.
(2)
The Principat/Owner witt enter into Pacts on identical terms as this one
with att Bidders and Contractors.
(3)
The Principat/Owner witt disquatify Bidders, who do not submit, the duty
signed Pact between the Principat/ Owner and the bidder, atong with the Tender
or viotate its provisions at any stage of the Tender process, from the Tender
process.
Articte 6- Duration of the Pact
This Pact begins when both the parties have legatty signed it. lt expires for the
Contractor/Vendor 12 months after the comptetion of work under the contract
or titt the continuation of defect tiabitity period, whichever is more and for att
other bidders, titt the Contract has been awarded. lf any ctaim is made/todged
during the time, the same shatt be binding and continue to be vatid despite the
lapse of this Pacts as specified above, untess it is discharged/determined bythe
Competent Authority, NIT Agartata.
Articte 7- Other Provisions
(1)
This Pact is subject to lndian Law, ptace of performance and jurisdiction
is the Headquarters of the Division of the Principat/Owner, who has ftoated the
Tender.
(2)
Changes and supptements need to be made in writing. Side agreements
have not been made. w-v/
Contracton For and o\ u"nutf of NtT Agartata

--- Page 24 ---
Page 24 of 51
(3)
lf the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this Pact must be
signed by att the partners or by one or more partner hotding power of attorney
signed by att partners and consortium members. ln case of a Company, the Pact
must be signed by a representative duty authorized by board resotution.
(41
Shoutd one or severat provisions of this Pact turn out to be invatid; the
remainder of this Pact remains vatid. ln this case, the parties witt strive to come
to an agreement to their origina[ intensions.
(5)
lt is agreed term and condition that any dispute or difference arising
between the parties with regard to the terms of this lntegrity Agreement / Pact,
any action taken by the Owner/Principal in accordance with this lntegrity
Agreement/ Pact or interpretation thereof shatl not be subject to arbitration.
ATtic[e 8. LEGAL AND PRIOR RIGHTS
Att rights and remedies of the parties hereto shatt be in addition to att theother
tegat rights and remedies betonging to such parties under the Contract and/or
law and the same shatt be deemed to be cumulative and not atternative to such
tegat rights and remedies aforesaid. For the sake of brevity, both the Parties
agree that this lntegrity Pact witl have precedence over the Tender/Contact
documents with regard any of the provisions covered under this lntegrity Pact.
lN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed and executed this lntegrity Pact at
the ptace and date first above mentioned in the presence of fottowing witnesses:
(For and on behatf of Principat/Owner)
(For and on behatf of Bidder/Contractor)
WITNESSES:
1
(Signature, name and address)
(Signature, name and address)
Ptace:
Dated:
MeY'
Contractgr For and on behalf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 25 ---
Page 25 of 51
J.
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made on the day of 2023
between NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA (hereinafter catted "The NIT
AGARTALA" which expression shatt, untess repugnant to the context or meaning
thereof, inctude its administrators, successors and assigns) of the one part
AND
(herein
after catted "The Contractor" which expression shatt, untess repugnant to the context or
meaning thereof, inctude its successors and permitted assigns) of the other part.
WHEREAS
The NIT AGARTALA is desirous of carrying out the work of "Comprehensive Annual
Maintenance Contract for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of Johnson make Lifts installed at
NIT Agartala campus"
The Works are to be executed as per the schedules mentioned in tender document and
specifications describing the works to be done.
The Contractor has agreed to execute the said works subject to the provisions hereinafter
contained and subject atso to Generat Conditions of Contract, Speciat conditions of
contract, Safety Code, Modet Rutes for the protection of heatth and Sanitary
arrangements for workers, Specifications, Preambtes and Schedute of Quantities and
instattation schedute (att of which are hereinafter cottectivety referred to as the 'said
tender conditions') and strictty in accordance with the Scope of work annexed hereto at
or for the respective rates set out in the Schedute of Quantities amounting to the sum as
there under arrived at or such other sums as shatl become payabte there under
(hereinafter referred to as the said tendered amount).
NOW lT lS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS: -
1.
ln consideration of the said tendered amount to be paid by The NIT AGARTALA to
the Contractor at the time and in the manner set forth in the said tender
conditions and in accordance with the Schedute of Payments to execute and
comptete the work shown strictty in accordance with the specifications, scope of
work and Schedute of Quantities.
2.
The said tender conditions, scope of work and the annexures hereto shatt be read
and considered as forming part of this contract and the parties hereto shatt
respectfulty abide by to the said conditions and perform the agreement on their
part respectivety contained in the said conditions.
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 26 ---
Page 26 of 51
3. The approved drawings if any, notice inviting tenders technica[ specification etc.
shatl atso form the basis of this contract.
4. This contract is neither a Lump sum Contract, nor a piece work contract, but is a
Annua[ maintenance contract to be carried out and to be paid for according to the
Schedute of Payments at the rates contained.
5. The contract herein contained shatl comprise not onty the works mentioned above
but atl subsidiary works connected therewith within the same site as may be ordered
to be done from time to time by the said Engineer ln charge for the time being,
even if such work may not be shown on the said Drawings or described in the said
Specifications and Schedute of Quantities.
6. The NIT AGARTALA reserves to themsetves the right of attering the specifications
and the nature of the work by adding to or omitting from the scope of work any
item of work or portions of the same without prejudice to this contract.
7. Time shatt be considered as the essence of this contract and the Contractor hereby
agrees to commence the work within 07 days from the date of work order or from
the date of handing over of the site, as provided for in the said terms and conditions,
whichever is later, and shatl comptete the entire work within the specified period,
subject neverthetess the provisions for extension of time as may be agreed to by
the NIT AGARTALA and as contained in the said conditions.
8. Att payments by the NIT AGARTALA under this contract shatl be made onty atNlTA.
Att disputes arising out of or in any way connected with this contract shatt be
deemed to have arisen at lndore and courts in Tripura onty shatt have jurisdiction
to determine the same.
10. That the contract and several parts of this contract have been read by the
contractor and futty understood by him. The contractor shat[ not be entitted for
payment beyond tendered quantities & scope of work as specified untess ordered
specificatty by written instructions of competent authority of NIT AGARTALA.
11 This contract shatl be signed in dupticate, the original whereof shatt be kept in the
custody of the Nlr AGARTALA, and the dupticate with the contractor.
lN WITNESS WHEREOF the NIT AGARTALA has set his hands hereunto and two dupticates
hereof through his duty authorized officiat and the Contractor has caused these presents
and two dupticates hereof under his common seat by his duty authorized representative
%tY
at the ptace and on the date month and year first herein written.
trQove
contractgr Y,
For and on behatf of Nlr Agartata

--- Page 27 ---
t
Y
Page27 of5l
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED by NIT AGARTALA, by the hand of
Signature:
Name:
Designation: Registrar, NIT Agartata
IN THE PRESENCE OF
(1) Signature:
Name:
Address:
(2)
Signature:
Name:
Address:
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED BY the Contractor M/s.
Signature:
Name:
Designation:
IN THE PRESENCE OF
(1) Signature:
Name:
Address:
(2) Signature:
Narhe:
Address:
tuY
a\
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 28 ---
v
Page 28 of 51
K. General Conditions of Contract
I
This witt be as per the Genera[ Conditions of Contract (GCC) of the CPWD to the
extent applicable to the NIT Agartata. Decision in this regard wilt be governed by
the competent authority of NIT Agartata which shatl be finat and binding to the
contractor.
Contracto; For and on behatf of NIT Agartala

--- Page 29 ---
Page 29 of 51
L. Scope of Work and Terms & conditions of Contract
I
Scope of Work:
a. The contract is lnitially for a period of 3 (Three) Years and it witt be extended
to 4th & 5th year based on the satisfactory performance and subject to approval
of the authority.
b. CAMC Contract may be terminated by NIT Agartata at its discretion by giving 30
days' notice to the service provider in case of faiture to maintain the AMC
services at the satisfaction of the NIT Agartata and the agreement with NIT
Agartala in that case witt be treated as cancetted before expiry date of notice
and the contract.
c. Regutar servicing & inspection of the etevators/Lifts shoutd be carried out at least
once in a month by the service provider.
d. The service provider shatl regutarty examine etevator equipments and provide
Gear oit, Lubricate, Grease, Mobit, Break Shoe Gibbs, Push Buttons Car and
Landings etc. for maintenance if required.
e. Response time for maintenance of items covered under CAMC witt be 12 hours
inctuding hotidays.
.
f ln the event of service provider unabte to attend catt, NIT Agartata reserves the
right to take tega[ action and deduct the amount from the bitt.
g. You shatt not engage any sub-agent or sub-contractor whatsoever for running the
CAMC Service.
h. The contract for running the CAMC Service shatt be commercial contract and
between NIT Agartata & contractor. There shatt be no emptoyer-emptoyees
retationship between NIT Agartata and the contractor and/his personnet.
i.
The CAMC is of Comprehensive type. Any reptacement of spares shoutd be with
new and of equivatent type or higher of same make.
j.
Monthty routine maintenance and checkup to be carried out for the machine,
controts, ropes, breaks, control cabtes, batteries and other mechanica[ and
etectricaI parts and apptiances.
k. Repair and /or reptacement of the worn-out parts retated to tifts at his own
cost for ensuring smooth service.
t.
Att the reptaced parts shatl conform to retevant l.S. codes or lifts Act and rutes
made there under.
m. The entire Lift system inctuding etectrical and mechanicat system (inside and
outside) shoutd be under the CAMC.
Contractdl' For and on behatf of NIT Agartata
k

--- Page 30 ---
Page 30 of 51
Special Conditions of Contract:
a. Detaits of monthty scheduled maintenance/break down shatt be entered in the
register/service stip & jointty signed by the firm's representative and
NIT
Agartata representative.
b. Contractor witt have to make minimum 12 visits (01 visit per month) during the
AMC period. Beside this, any number of breakdown catts wi[t have to be atteided.
The response time for such breakdown catts shatt not exceeds 12 hours. Beyond
this penatty shatt be imposed as per penatty ctause.
c. contractor's mechanic/engineer shall reach to the site within 12 hour after
todging a comptaint. Detay in reporting period shatt be recorded and penatty shatt
be imposed at the rate of Rs. 1000/- fer day per tift.
d.
Contractor witl have to take necessary care and precaution to keep the elevator
safe for use and in good working condition. Trained technical staff shatt carry out
maintenance work.
e. Contractor witl have to carry out att customary safety tests to examine atl safety
devices.
.
f As the contract is comprehensive in nature, no payment witt be made as an extra
for reptacement of spare parts etc.
g. No parts or components of the tifts being maintained by contractor shatt be
removed without prior approval and knowtedge of NIT Agirtata. Any part to be
removed from the lift for repair shatt be done after appiovat of the nominated
engineer/ supervisor.
h. Any damage to NIT Agartata property white carrying out periodicat maintenance
and attending break down witt be contractors, responslbi[ity.
i.
Thorough cteaning of machine room, control panel machine unit & hoist way with
lift car and pit shatt be done once in a month, which witt be certified by NIT
Agartata representative.
i.
Contractor shatI not only attend the faiture but atso rectify the cause of faiture
after investigation.
k.
Penatty imposed for late reporting, tate reptacement of defective parts and Down
time of tift shatt be deducted from monthty bitt of the firm. A,r,rC Uitt shatt be
paid after six month. No advance payment witt be paid.
t.
There shoutd be a site office/ maintenance cet[ (tift) inside the NIT Agartata on
computsory basis for CAMC job. Bitts of Room rent, etectricity, water etc. shoutd be
pay by the agency/ contractor separatety.
Contractor
For and pqbehatf of NtT Agartata
,eL\, l/ f--
,,

--- Page 31 ---
F
t,
Page 31 of 51
m. Att payments sha[[ be made in lndian currency. The payment witl be reteased on
Hatf Yearty basis after ascertaining that the service is rendered satisfactority. The
preventive and corrective maintenance service report has to be submitted with bitt.
The reports of periodic maintenance and breakdown maintenance shatl be signed by
the Junior Engineer (Etect.).
n. Annexure 6 to 10 shoutd be submitted with each & every running bitts.
o. The total vatue (BOQ is inctusive of fooding, lodging to & fro charges of service
Engineers. GST as appticabte are extra and shatl be reimbursed on production of
proof of payment of GST
NYtr*
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 32 ---
Page 32 of 51
Equipment Description
:
The fottowing 14 numbers of tifts witt be covered under this agreement:
st. Description of Lift Height of Nos. of
Location Lift
No.
No. (Johnson) Lifts Lifts
1 Administrative Buitding 1 (W) 10 Passengers L-L-3203 G+3 1 No.
2 Administrative Buitding 1 (E) 1 3 Passengers L-L-321 3 G+3 1 No.
3 Administrative Buitding 2 (S) 8 Passengers L-L-3704 G+2 1 No.
4 Administrative Buitding 2 (N) 8 Passengers L-L-3205 G+2 1 No.
5 ECE Buitding (S) 13 Passengers L-L-3201 G+6 1 No.
6 ECE Buitding (N) 1 3 Passengers L-L-3202 G+6 1 No.
7 Schoo[ of Management (S) 10 Passengers L-L-3206 G+4 1 No.
8 Schoot of Management (N) 10 Passengers L-t-3207 G+4 1 No.
9 lnternationaI Guest House 8 Passengers L-L-3214 G+3 1 No.
10 Central Library (S) 10 Passengers L-L-3210 G+4 1 No.
11 Centra[ Library (N) 10 Passengers L-L-3211 G+4 1 No.
12 DoNER Buitding (N) 10 Passengers L-L-3208 G+3 1 No.
13 DoNER Buitding (S) 10 Passengers L-L-3209 G+3 1 No.
14 Centrat Library 500 Kgs. Goods t-L-3212 G+4 1 No.
Term and Price:
a. The NIT Agartata shatt pay the Contractor the specified amount on Hatf Yearty
basis for the work performed during that period on presentation of an approvei
Vv
invoice by the Contractor. No advance payment witt be made in any case- Taxes
witt be deducted from the bitt as appticabte.
Contractog For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 33 ---
t
v
Page 33 of 51
Termination of Agreement:
a. Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving the other party not less than
thirty (30) days written notice.
Contractor to comply with laws:
a. ln the performance of this Contract, the Contractor shatl abide by attexisting laws,
codes, rutes and regutations set forth by att governmental units and authorities
having competent jurisdiction over Contractor and/or the work performed by
Contractor hereunder. Contractor shatl atso procure and pay any necessary
permits or licenses pertaining to the work performed by Contractor pursuant to
this Contract.
b. Att repair, parts reptacement or adjustments catled for hereunder shatl be
performed in futt comptiance with specified taws, standards and codes set by the
government with Iatest edition, inctuding amendments thereto, and with
appticabte regutations of the state, city and/or locat authorities. ln case of
conftict, the more stringent regutations witt appty.
Warranty:
Contractor warrants that the etevator/tift maintenance services wit[ be provided
to the NIT Agartata in accordance with the terms of this Contract and with
prevaiting industry standards for etevator/ tift maintenance services. Contractor
shatt use its best efforts under the circumstances to remedy any detays,
interruptions, omissions, mistakes, accidents or errors in such services and
restore any service to comptiance with the terms of this Contract.
Availability of Authorized Representative:
The contractor shat[ ensure avaitabitity of his authorized representative at NIT
Agartata to receive emergency catts and take remedial actions. The
representative shoutd attend the catl immediatety to ensure the restoration of
the services promptty. lf shutdown of any Lift continues for more than 12 hours a
penatty of Rs. 1000/- per day per Lift for detay beyond 12 hours shatt be imposed
and the amount of penatty shatt be recovered from the bitts.
tuv^-
Contractcn For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 34 ---
Page 34 of 51
Responsibility of Accident and hazards:
The contractor shatt be responsibte for any accident or hazard that take ptace
during the maintenance period due to negtigence of work performed by the
agency. He shatl atso be responsibte for payment of compensation and penatties
payabte to effected parties as a resutt of tegat action. He shatt atso be
responsible for repairs and reptacement of damaged parts of the tift and restore
services immediatety faiting which, a penatty @ Rs. lOOO/- per day per tift shatt
/
be imposed and recovered from bitts deposit or any other sum' due to the
contractor appticabte maximum LD ceiting@10% of net contract vatue per tift.
The reptacement of fottowing spares shatt be covered under the GAMC:
sl. Item sl. Item sl. Item
No. No.
No.
1 l/O Card 30 Break magnate coil 59 Lock Latch landing
door
2 AC Retay Card 31 Motor Cooting Fan 60 Setf-ctosing rope
3 DC retay Card 32 V3F10 Drive 61 Light curtain
4 Decoder card 33 Car top PCB 62 Synchronize rope
5 0N Detay timer 34 Communication 63 Lock latch rotter
PCB
6 Off detay Timer 35 Door GIBS, chock 64 Light curtain PCB
7 Transformer 36 CAE Door contacts 65 Position indicator
8 Rectifier 37 PIT switch 66 Catt buttons.
9 Rectifier PCB 38 Synchronize Switch 67 CAR door Motor
10 Contractors 39 Oscittator Switch 68 Track Rotter
11 ControI retay 40 Piano wire 69 Anti-track rotter
12 V3F Fitter 41 Tension weight 70 CPU Card
puttey bearing
13 Capacitor 42 Gear Oit 71 Expansion card
14 Travetting cabte 43 Break Liner 72 Main Rope
15 Lock Box 44 Car guide shoe 73 OSG rope
16 Thermat overload 45 CWT shoe 74 Car Door coupler
retay
17 PF & RR card 46 C.V.T 75 Alarm bett/buzzer
Contractol Fkor an Y 9qn be hatf otf NvIT Agartata

--- Page 35 ---
v
Page 35 of 51
18 Light lnvertor 47 Landing Door 76 ARD
19 Wet/ Dry Cetts 48 Itevator tighting 77 Etevator car
batteries (inctuding indicator enctosure
rutbs, ftuorescent
tubes)
20 Etevator car and 49 Cabin fans., Btower 78 Decorative item
tanding door panets / fans inctuding mirror and
handrail
eates.
21 Controtter component 50 Machine Encoder 79 WVF Drive
27 lntegrated Drive 51 Rotters, Bearings 80 Sotenoids, Coits
23 Retays in Controtter 52 Push Button, 81 Door contacts
indicators
24 Push Buttons 53 Limit Switches 82 Break shoes, Liners
25 Contacts 54 Magnetic switches 83 Magnets
26 Door Motor & Drive 55 Encoder 84 Car door safety
device
27 lnfrared screen 56 Governor 85 lntertocks on Hoist
way doors
28 Machine room door 57 Gear oit 86 MechanicaI parts
Iock
29 Motors 58 Machines 87 Ftooring
Att parts and components fitted by agency shoutd be originat parts or components. lf
original parts or components are not avaitabte, the parts or components fitted witt be of
equal quatity and any defects in design, material or workmanship retating to parts and
components shatt be timited to the reptacement of spare parts or components as defined
by this articte and which shatt be certified by the O.E.M.
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 36 ---
Page 36 of 51
Formats for Different Forms/Certificates
Annexure-1
Sub.: "Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of
Johnson make Lifts installed at Nlr Agartala campus.,,
DNIeT No.: 137lN|TA/Estate Etect. /ZOZZ-23
Dated: .....
To,
The Registrar,
NIT Agartata,
Barjata, Jirania, West Tripu ra - 799046.
Dear Sir,
We have carefutty examined the specifications, design and schedute of quantities
retating to the work specified in the memorandum hereinafter set out and have visited and
examined the instattation site of the works specified in the said memorandum and have
acquired the requisite information retating thereto as affecting the tender. We hereby
offer to execute the CAMC works specified in the said memorandum within the time
specified in the said memorandum at the rates mentioned in the Schedute of euantities and
in accordance in att respects with specifications, designs and instructions in
w11ting
referred to in artictes of agreement, general instructions to the tenderers and special
conditions, Generat Conditions of Contract, conditions hereinbefore referred to,
specifications, schedute of works, data sheet and schedute of quantities and with such
materiats as are provided for, by and in att other respects, in accordance with such
conditions so far as they may be appticabte.
v
N
,**'-_
Contractor
For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 37 ---
Page 37 of 51
Memorandum
A.1 .1 DNIeT No.: 137lNITA/Estate Etect. 17022'23
"Comprehensive Annual Maintenance
A.1.2 Name of Work Contract for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of
Johnson make Lifts installed at NIT Agartata
campus. "
Rs. 93,000/- (Rupees Ninety Three Thousand
A.1 .3 Earnest Money Deposit
Only) by e-payment through etectronic mode.
(Rs.)
Tender Processing Fee Rs. 1,500/- by e-payment through etectronic
4.1.4
(Rs.) mode (Non-Refundabte)
lnitially for a period of 3 (Three) Years and it
A.1.5 Contract period
witt be extended to 4th & 5th year based on the
satisfactory performance subject to approvat of
the authority.
Mode of submission of
A.1.6 On-Line mode only
Tender
2.
We atso agree that our tender wit[ remain valid for acceptance by the NIT
Agartala for 180 days from the date of opening of technicat bid of the tender
and this period of vatidity can be extended for such period as may be mutuatty
agreed between the NIT Agartata and us in writing. We atso agree to keep the
Bank Guarantee towards earnest money vatid during the entire period of
vatidity of tender and the extended period, if any, as per enctosed proforma.
Shoutd this tender be accepted, we hereby agree to abide by and futfit att the
terms and conditions of the contract and in defautt thereof, to forfeit Earnest
Money Deposit and pay to you or your successors, or assignees or nominees such
sums of money as are stiputated in the said conditions.
3.
Shoutd this tender be accepted, we hereby agree to abide by and futfit att
the terms and conditions of the contract and in defautt thereof, to forfeit Earnest
Money Deposit and pay to you or your successors, or assignees or nominees such
sums of money as are stiputated in the said conditions.
N \/
/*'--
Contractor For and on\ehatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 38 ---
Page 38 of 51 V
4,
We understand that you reserye the right to accept or reject any or
att the tenders either in futt or in part without assigning any r."uron
therefor.
this_day of_2023.
Dated
For and on behatf of M/s
(Signature with seat)
Name
Designation
Ptace
Contractor *Y
For and plbehatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 39 ---
.v
Page 39 of 51
Annexure - 2
(To be scanned and uptoaded)
(Printed on tetter head of Chartered
Accountant)
Turnover Certificate
Name of the Company/Firm/AgencY:
Address of the Company/Firm/Agency:
This is to certify that I have verified the annual turnover of the
Company/firm/Agency named above for business retated to Comprehensive
Maintenance For Lifts for TheYears 2017- 2020and it is as mentioned betow; and
that it is correct.
Sr. Description Financial Year Financial Year Financial Year
No. 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22
Rs. (both, in figures Rs. (both, in figures Rs. (both, in figures
and words ) and words ) and words )
1. Annuat Turnover
Ptace -
Date
Name, Address, Signature and Sea[ of the Chartered
Accountant
* \,2 f,*''--'
Y
ContraS:tor For and on bEhatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 40 ---
Page 40 of 51 -,
Annexure-3
(To be scanned and uptoaded) (printed on
letterhead of firm/ company)
Self-Declaration regarding not being blacklisted
I Shri / Smt. I
Proprietor Director/
Authorised signatory of the company/ firm/ Agency M/s
hereby dectare that we are
not black-tisted by any Centrat/State Government/Pubtic Sector Undertaking or
any other organization for Comprehensive Maintenance For Lifts in lndia or
etsewhere.
We are not involved in any titigation that may have an impact on execution
of contract or may compromise the detivery of service as required under this
tender.
There is no Judicial case is pending in court of law against firm.
(Signature of Authorized person)
Ptace:
Name
Date
: Designation
Address:
Seat
Contractor
Fo*r anYd pqbeAhatf of-
NIT
-
Agartata

--- Page 41 ---
v
Page 41 of 51
Annexure-4
(To be scanned and uptoaded) (Printed on
letterhead of firm/ company)
SELF DECLAMTION
Declaration as regards acceptance of terms and conditions of contract
/
l. lShri. /Smt. Proprietor Director
/ authorized signatory of the Company/Firm/Agency M/s
am competent to sign this dectaration
and execute this tender document;
2. I have carefutty read and understood att the terms and conditions of the
tender and undertake to abide by them;
3. The informationi documents furnished atong with the tender are true and
authentic to the best of my knowtedge and betief. I / We, am / are wet[
aware of the fact that furnishing of any fatse information / fabricated
document woutd tead to rejection of my tender at any stage, besides the
tiabitities towards prosecution under appropriate taw.
(Signature of Authorized Person)
Place:
Name
Date Designation
:
Address:
Seal
w
Contra$tor For tf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 42 ---
Page 42 of 51 v
Annexure-5
(To be scanned and uptoaded)
.otrrn,.r"
Ott runduao
PersonaI Deta
NAME OF THT
COMPETENT PERSON &
AGENCY
ACT DETAILS 1) LANDLTNE NO.
:
2) MOBTLE NO.:
3) e-mait lD
:
NAME OF THE AGEI.ICY
FOR ONLINE TRANSFER
(Signature of Authorized person)
Ptace:_
Name
:_
Date
Designation
Address:
SeaI
Contractor
For and on behatf of NIT Agartata
a\
V
v
Y
\J

--- Page 43 ---
'v
Page 43 of 51
DESCRIPTION OF EQUIPMENT : LIFT
L! FT
St.No.
LIFT capacity
1
2 Nos.
3 Speed
4 Make
5 Travet & openings
6 Controller
7 Door-Operation
8 Machine No.
Annexure -6
Details to be supplied before starting of work :
Name of the Agency
1.
(with office address)
2. Name of Proprietor/ partner
3. Tetephone Nos. of the firm
4. Name and address of the supervisor
5. 24 Hrs. contact No.
6. Particutars of the License/ Registration
K
Y/o-
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 44 ---
a
of51 v
Page 44
Annexure -7
coMpLAtN REGTSTER (LtFT NO.........)
st. T D im at e e o & f Nature of Sig D n a a t t e u r & e of T D im at e e o & f Cause MateriaI Sig D na a t t u e r e & of
No. Comptaint Comptaint Comptainant attending of Fault Used Firm's
comptaint
Representative
Firm's Representative
Junior Engineer
Contractor
For and on behatf of NIT Agartata
a-1\'V
4t ,s*'-'-

--- Page 45 ---
'v
Page 45 of 51
Annexure -8
Programme for Periodical Maintenance for the Month of
Name of Firm :
LIFT No.:
Name of Site
The firm shatt see that the fottowing work is carried out by an authorized
person appointed by him under these rutes at least once in a month and the
resutt are recorded by such person in log book.
Maintenance Type Nature of
st. Date & Time of
(Monthty/ Quarterty/ Comptaint (if
No. Comptaint (if any)
Yearty) any)
i)
Cteaning and [ubricating the guides.
ii) Examining the ropes and their attachments.
iii)Examining the safety devices.
iv)Examining and [ubricating the door locks.
v) Examining the moving parts lubricating with proper quatity of lubrication.
vi)Examining att etectrical connections inctuding tighting, ptug point & earthing.
vii) Others, if any
Firm's Representative Junior Engineer
Contractor kFor aYnd6\ behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 46 ---
Page 45 of 51 v
Annexure -9
Actual for Periodical Maintenance carried out for the Month of
Name of Firm
:
LIFT No.:
Name of Site
:
Maintenance Type
st. Resutt
(Monthty/
No. Quarterty/ Date & Time) (Satisfactory /
Yearty)
Unsatisfactory)
Firm's Representative
Junior Engineer
Contractor
For a2(on behatf of NtT Agartata
A'Y
/\*\''-

--- Page 47 ---
Y Page 47 of 51
Annexure - 10
FAULT. FORMAT
LIFT No.
Date Time (of occurrence of Fautt)
Date Time (of Reporting of Fautt)
1. Fautt Reported to : Technica[ support centre (Name of the person) on phone:
(
2. Modeof Reporting:Landtine( ) Mobite( ) E-mait )
3. Description of fautt & observation of the reporting officer.
4. Detaits of Services affected :
Time
5. Date (of receiving the 1't assistance over phone
from TechnicaI support centre)
6. Detaits of Assistance received:
(Note : Add additionat sheet if needed)
7. Was the fautt restored by fottowing the instructions given over phone ?
A. YES B-NO (Tick whichever is appticabte)
Contractor For and V on behatf of NIT Agartata
/\
Yv

--- Page 48 ---
Page 48 of 51 v
8. lf Yes, record the date & time of restoration & duration of fautt
:
Date Time (ln hours & Minutes)
9. Duration of fautt Days_Hours
Minutes
10. Was the fautt restored
?
YES
A. B-NO (Tick whichever is appticabte)
11' lf the fautt is not restored or restored onty partiatty, give detaits of observation
(Note: add additional sheet if needed) :
12. Note : Date & Time of giving feedback
Date Time (ln hours & Minutes)
13. Date & Time of arrivat of Firm's Expert at site of Fautt:
Date Time (ln hours & Minutes)
14' Brief of observation and works done by the firm's staff/ expert : (Detaited entry to
be made by firm's staff in the Log-Book)
:
15. Date & Time of comptete restoration of system
:
Date Time (ln hours & Minutes)
'16. Totat duration of Fautt : _days_ hours_
minutes
'17. Remarks of in charge (if any): *Vt'-
Contractor
For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 49 ---
v
Page 49 of 51
18. Remarks of visiting Engineer (of firm), if any:
Countersigned by Engineer-in -charge
Nore:
1. Each page of the Fautt-Format must be signed by concerned staff.
2. A copy of the Fautt-Format must be sent to the firm, immediatety by E-Mait after
restoration of fautt.
w\a/ /
As\,..-
\L/
Contractor For and on behatf of NIT Agartata

--- Page 50 ---
Page 50 of 51
FORM.1
tractor
Description
of work Start I tomptetion
Sign and Seal of Contractor
FORM.2
List,of *o.k ."latEd Egrioment. Machinerv and tools
tackles etc immediaterv avairabre *ffi
use on this work.
On the letter head of the Contractor
Sign and Seal of Contractor
FORM.3
Details of techtical, ogrsonnel with the bidder who will
be deploved forthis work
Qn the tetter head of the Contractor
Whether Mode of Period for which
working emptoyment & the person is
in Fietd Experience working with the
or in Bidder
Office
y
;':;ii:'Il
Contractor qF-or avnd ilJ[ac'[or
".

--- Page 51 ---
I
v
Page 51 of 51
N.
FINANCIAL BID
FINANClAL BID
Name of Work: "Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 14 (Fourteen)
numbers of Johnson make Lifts installed at NIT Agartala campus.
DNIeT No.: 137lNITA/Estate Etect. 17022-23
Totat Rate for
CAMC
st. CAMC one Amount
Description of ltem Unit Qnty. Period
No. (Month) Period Month (ln Rs. )
(Month) (ln Rs.)
F=DXE H=FXG
A B C D E G
Comprehensive Annuat Maintenance Contract (AMC) for 14 (Fourteen) Nos. Johnson
Lifts Pvt. Ltd make Etevator instatted around NIT Agartala campus area for the
1
period of 3 (Three) years.
For Lifts with 1 MPS 7
1.01 Each 2 36 72.00 11460.00 825120.00
Stops and G+6 Travet
For Lifts with 't MPS 4
1.02 Each 5 36 180.00 9000.00 1620000.00
Stops and G+3 Travel
For Lifts with 1 MPS 5
1.03 Each 4 36 144.00 9000.00 1 296000.00
Stops and G+4 Travel
For Lifts with 1 MPS 3
1.04 Each 2 36 72.00 7870.00 566640.00
Stops and G+2 Travel
For Goods Lift with 0.5
1.05 MPS and G+4 Trave[ Each 1 36 36.00 9250.00 333000.00
Total amount of 3 Years (in figure)= Rs.4640760.00
figure
Quoted Rate in Excess/Less o lo /
The Financial Bid is available on the e- procurement website
sL:Y
httos://eorocure.qov.in/eorocure/aoo e /
ft,__
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartata