
--- Page 1 ---
 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Fax : 0381 254-6360, Website : http// www.nita.ac.in

aes ‘ a

ve : _
eo NEA SEZ Pincha esas AI TAS) 0 Date: 4 /

e

  
    

 

E-Tender Notice

On behalf of National Institute of Technology Agartala, bids are invited in sealed cover from the
reputed resourceful Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/ Authorized Suppliers for supply of item(s)/goods
as per specification mentioned in Annexure of tender document available at our website www.nita.ac.in.

 

 
 

 

   
     
     
     
 
 

Time and date of
opening of
Technical bid

Estimated
Ref. No. Items cost
(Rs.)

SL.
No

Last date of
receipt of tender

u01]9ag /
yuaurj.edaq

 

Electrometer or
No.F.NITA.39(12- High Resistance
1 EIE EIE)/Purchase/Electro Measurement 9,00,000.00
meter/2025 Meter

®O / O€/2025 O4/ ©9/2025
Up to 3:00 PM At 3:00 PM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The interested Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/Authorized Suppliers may arrange online
submission of the tender through www.eprocure.gov.in along with scan copy of essential documents mentioned in
the tender document.

Tender(s) is/are to be submitted only online through central public procurement portal ie.
“http://eprocure.gov.in”. All the documents are to be scanned and uploaded along with the tender documents.

Tender sent by any other mode will not be accepted.

 

 

Registrar
K
odo -
Registrar
NIT Agartala
Copy to:
1. The P.S. to the Director for kind information.

2. The Nodal Officer, e-Procurement, NITA with a request to kindly arrange uploading the
Tender Documents in the CPP portal https://eprocure.gov.in/cppp.

5. Mr. Kamal Kanti Paul, System Administrator, Computing & ICT Unit with a request to uploading
the Tender documents in the Institute website site.

4. The Deputy Registrar (F & A).

Pa

Registrar
NIT Agartala


--- Page 2 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

No.F ‘NITA.39(12-ElE)/Purchase/Electrometer/2025] 2454-6 Date: OS7 0&/2025

E- Tender Enquiry

 

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

Name of the Institute : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TE CHNOLOGY AGARTALA

GST Number of the Institute : I6AAAGNO550K1ZG

PAN of the Institute : AAAGNOS50K

TAN of the Institute : SHLNO00719F

DSIR No. : TU/V/RG-CDE(1053)/2022 dated 18/12/2022

Institute Bank A/C No. 030936141729 (IFSC: SBIN0011491) under SBI, NIT Agartala
Branch.

Name of Department / Branch : Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering

Enquiry / Reference Number : No.F.NITA.39(12-EIJE)/Purchase/Electrometer/2025

Some important/Critical dates:

   
   

 
   
    

Details of e-tender document.

NIT, Agartala intends to purchase the commodities/serrie(s) specified in Annexure enclosed and invites
quotations in accordance with the terms and conditions detailed in the bid document. If you are interested, kindly

submit your offer with prices within the time mentioned above fulfilling all the terms and conditions marked in the bid

documents.
Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura
Encl :
(1) Schedule of requirement, specifications, dates etc.
(2) Bid document containing detail terms and conditions.

1|Page


--- Page 3 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

Le Schedule of requirements
Description of Goods/Service
Electrometer or High Resistance Measurement Meter
01 (Details as per at Annexure-A). As per Annexure-A

 

Ds Specifications and allied Technical Details
Electrometer or High Resistance Measurement Meter

   

(Details as per at Annexure-A)

Eb Estimated Cost
9,00,000.00
ee Quotations should be valid for a period of 180 days from the opening date of the technical bid.
Bs Bid Security or EMD: 2% of the estimated cost of the tender or Bidders should submit “Bid Security Declaration

Form” on company letter head as per annexure-D of this tender document.
4. Performance Security: The amount of the Performance Security shall be 5%(five percent) (not applicable for
consumable item(s)) of the Purchase Order / Contract value, valid up to 60 days after the date of completion of

contract obligations including warranty obligations.

5. Delivery Option: 60 (sixty) days after receipt of the purchase/work order(s).

6. Please go through the enclosed “bid document” carefully for other bidding instructions.
f For any technical details, you may contact through email-id: nitapurchasesection2@gmail.com.

Yourg sincerely,

a

egistrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

2|Page


--- Page 4 ---
 

WTS WENT! AA SEAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

No.F.NITA.39(12-EIE)/Purchase/Electrometer/2025 Date: - / --/2025
BID DOCUMENT

1. Instructions to the bidders:

1.1

1.3
1.4

1.5

1.6

17

1.8

19

1.10

1.11

Bids are invited through e-tender on behalf of the National Institute of Technology Agartala, Tripura,
Agartala-799046 from the intending bidders for supply of the goods/stores/ equipments/Learning
resources for the Institute as detailed in the enquiry letter.

The bidders should quote their rates in clear terms without ambiguity. The quotation should be only in
Indian Rupees.

The last date & time for submission of the bid is marked in the enquiry.

The bids should be submitted online through www.eprocure.gov.in before the last date & time of
submission specified in tender document.

Bids received after the deadline of receipt indicated in para 1.4 above, shall not be taken into
consideration.

Each bidder shall submit only one bid against one enquiry. A bidder, who submits more than one bid
against single enquiry, shall be disqualified and considered non-responsive.

The bidder has to enclose a check list at per Annexure - C duly filled in along with all relevant/supporting
documents while submitting technical bid through www.eprocure.gov.in.

Opening of Bids by the Purchaser will be done as per the provisions of the e-procurement system.

At any time prior to the due date for submission of bids, the Purchaser may, for any reason, whether at its
own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by a prospective bidder, modify the bidding
documents by amendment.

All prospective bidders are expected to surf the website before formulating and submitting their bids to
take cognizance of the amendments.

Custom Duty Exemption Certificate will be provided from the Institute for availing Custom Duty
Exemption in trams of notification No. 51/96-Custom dated 23-07-1996, amended by notification No.
43/2017 dated 30-06-2017, further amended by notification No. 42/2022 dated 13-07-2022, as amended
from time to time in case of imported items per OM No. F.4/1/2021-PPD dated 01-09-2021.

2. General Terms & Conditions:

zl

Duk

2.3

2.4

22

2.6

2.7
2.8

3|Page

The rates quoted by the Supplier/Bidders should preferably be on basic price, Annual Maintenance
Charges(if applicable), packing, forwarding, freight, Insurance and all other incidental charges
including delivery of the Materials at National Institute of Technology, Agartala.

All taxes and duties will be paid extra and such amounts of mandatory/statutory taxes & duties shall
be explicitly mentioned in BOQ while submitting of bid. If GST amount not quoted in the BOQ
(price bid), the total cost will be treated as inclusive of GST.

Price has to be filled through CPP portal as per BOQ (https://www.eprocure.gov.in). The scanned copy of
Price Bid, dully filled in, has to be uploaded on the above e-procurement site. The prices filled in the e-
procurement site will be treated final and shall be binding to the vendor.

Insurance: The Goods supplied under the Contract shall be fully insured against any loss or damage
incidental to manufacture or acquisition, transportation, storage and delivery up to the final destination.

All the Machines/Equipments/goods will be covered by Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC) / CMC/
Warranty beyond the normal warranty/guarantee period. Interested bidders are requested to quote price
against AMC/Extended warranty as an optional item in the price bid. Optional items will not be taken
into consideration while selecting L; bidder.

AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty will be awarded after completion of standard warranty period.
AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty may be carried out only after receipt of confirmation letter from this
Institute. The Institute will not be responsible for any due payments / obligations may arise as a result of
execution of AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty without confirmation letter from this Institute.

Conditional discount, if any, offered by the bidder shall not be considered at the time of evaluation.

The bidders who are registered as a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under
MSME rules, Govt. of India for exemption of submitting EMD/Bid security must enclose relevant
documentary proof of authentication of their firm’s registered as a Micro or Small Enterprise as per
latest definitions under MSME rules, Govt. of India.


--- Page 5 ---
 

2:10

2-11

212

2.13

   
 
 
       

2.14

2.15

4|Page

Wy Weal AA SPAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME rules, the bidder shall be
exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is
OEM of the offered products, it would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria. In
case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover /Experience Criteria, the supporting documents to
prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded with technical bid.

If the bidder is a Startup, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover" criteria

and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the offered products, it would also be exempted from
the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria. In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover /
Experience Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded
with technical bid.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala is following and abide with the Public Procurement (Preference
to Make in India), Order 2017, DIPP, MoCI Order No. P-45021/2/2017-B.E.II dated 15th June 2017 and
subsequent amendments to the order. Accordingly preference will be given to the Make in India products
while evaluating the bids, however, it is the sole responsibility of the bidder(s) to specify the product
quoted by them is of Make in India product along with respective documentary evidence as stipulated in
the aforesaid order in the technical bid itself. A self-declaration as per Annexure- G should be enclosed in
the technical bid.

On site Comprehensive Warranty:

e The successful bidder shall provide a Comprehensive Warranty for minimum period of 1 year (not
applicable for consumable item(s)) after the installation and commissioning of the instrument /
software/items. If within a warranty period after installation any such product or component is proven
to be defective such product shall be repaired or replaced by the supplier/vendor. Such repair and
replacement shall be sole obligation of supplier/vendor. Supplier / vendor shall be responsible for
payment for all charges (to-and-fro) for repair/ replacement. Any design defects or installations
deficiencies or any outer defects, if noticed during the warranty/ maintenance period, shall be rectified
promptly by the successful bidder with no cost at all the places, which also includes the field
installations.

e Down-time call attendance should be within 48 hrs.

e Incase the Equipment / System remains non-operational for more than 5 days then warranty period
will be extended for the equal period for which Equipment / System remained non-operational.
Warranty extension in such case shall be done without prejudice to any other Term & condition of the
contract.

The documentary evidence of the bidders qualification to perform the contract if the bid is accepted shall

establish to the purchasers satisfaction that:

The bidder meets the qualification criteria listed in bidding
Bidder who doesn’t manufacture the goods it offers to supply shall submit Manufacturers’
Authorization Form using the form specified in the bidding document to demonstrate that it has been
duly authorized by the manufacturer of the goods to quote and / or supply the goods/services.

The successful bidder has to furnish “Performance Guarantee/Security” (not applicable for consumable
item(s)) for an amount specified in the enquiry by E-Payment System to NITA Account within 15(fifteen)
days of intimation of contract/supply order.

Alternatively, “Performance Guarantee/Security” will be retained by the Institute from the billed amount
of the contract/supply order which will be released two months after the completion of warranty period
(not applicable for consumable item(s)).

  
  
 
 

 

  

Delivery Schedule: As per e-Tender.

The item(s)/goods are required to be delivered at the indenting Department of National Institute of
Technology, Agartala, and must be dispatched within specified days from the date of placement of the
supply/purchase/work order.

If the supplier fails to Supply, Install and Commission the system/instrument as per specifications
mentioned in the order within the due date, the Supplier is liable to pay liquidated damages of 0.5% of
order value per week or part thereof of delay subject to a maximum of 10%, as the case may be, beyond
the due date. Such money will be deducted from any amount due or which may become due to the
supplier. Any exemption towards delay without LD can be resolved through mutual consent under
exceptional circumstances.


--- Page 6 ---
 

217

2.18

2.19

2.20

2.21

2.22

2.23
2.24

2.25

2.26

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Force Majeure: Notwithstanding the provisions of clauses relating to Extension of Time, Penalty and
Termination for Default the Supplier shall not be liable for forfeiture of its Performance Security,
Liquidated Damages or Termination for Default, if and to the extent that, its delay in performance or other
failure to perform its obligations under the Contract is the result of an event of Force Majeure.

Evaluation of Bid: The Technical Bid shall be evaluated on the basis of technical and other parameters
usually taken in to consideration. Financial bid shall be evaluated on the basis of financial parameters.
Govt. of India rules shall be taken in to account for evaluating both technical and financial bids.

The successful bidder(s) may be required to execute a contract on the basis of evaluation as per

annexure(s) (as applicable).

NIT Agartala will reject a proposal for award if it determines that the Bidder recommended for award has,

directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices in competing

for the Contract in question.

The bidder has to submit valid trade license, GST registration certificate, Last filled ITR and last filed

GST return.

Payment: 100% will be made in INR (Indian National Rupees) after successful Installation,
Commissioning of item against submission of Performance Guaranty (PG) otherwise an
equal amount of PG will be retained by the Institute till the completion of warranty
obligations.

Note: All payments due under the contract shall be paid after deduction of statutory levies at source
(like ESIC, IT (TDS), GST, LBT / Octroi etc.), wherever applicable.

In the event of any dispute arising out of the bid or from the resultant contract, the decision of the
Competent Authority, National Institute of Technology, Agartala shall be final.

 

The bid document/resultant contract will be interpreted under Indian Laws.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala will not take any responsibility for arranging road permit/way
bill or clearance from tax department for delivery of goods. All such requirements should be completed by
the bidder for delivery of goods at National Institute of Technology, Agartala. GST payment, if required,
should be paid by successful bidder and if GST not paid, National Institute of Technology, Agartala will
deduct the applicable amount from successful bidder’s bills and pay the same to Tax Authority. If there is
any mandatory tax(es) other than GST/other taxes mentioned in this tender document, imposed by State
Govt., the same may also be deducted from the bills of the successful bidder, as applicable.

Competent Authority of National Institute of Technology, Agartala reserves the right to cancel the
entire e-tendering process at any stage of the procurement process without mentioning any reason.

Legal disputes, if any with NIT Agartala will be restricted within the jurisdiction of Agartala only.

3. Special Terms & Conditions:

301
ae

3.3

3.4
3-5

3.6

5|Page

Acceptance of Technical bid strictly depends on National Institute of Technology, Agartala’s requirements
credentials, manufacturing capability, quality control systems, past performance, after-sales service,
financial background, commercial terms & conditions etc. of the supplier(s).

Detailed Specifications, brand, make, model & parts number, tolerance limit, resolution, corresponding
ISO standard etc. of quoted Equipments/Items should be mentioned with supported
leaflet/catalogue/brochure and list of buyers for acceptance of technical bid.

The technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted through www.eprocure.gov.in. The technical
bids shall be opened and evaluated by the competent committee/authority. At the second stage, financial
bids of only the technically qualified bidders shall be opened for further evaluation and recommendations
for awarding the purchase order/contract.

It may specifically be mentioned whether quotation is strictly as per terms and conditions of the tender.
Deviation, if any, must be spelt out specifically in technical bid. In the absence of this, the quotation may
be rejected.

Installation & Commissioning: Within 15 (fifteen) days after delivery (if applicable).

The Quantity of each Item(s)/Equipment(s) may increase (as per Govt. Norms) or decrease at the time of
issued of Purchase / Supply / Work Order. The Institute reserves right to purchase partly or not to purchase
any item / cancel the entire process at any stage of procurement process.

Penalty: Penalty will be charged @ 0.5 % of per week or part thereof except for force majeure conditions
for the unexecuted part of the supply/work order.


--- Page 7 ---
 

3.8

3.9
3.10
Schl

3.13
3.14

6|Page

TSE WIT AI SERA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Arbitration: All disputes should be attempted to be resolve mutually between the National Institute of
Technology, Agartala and the suppliers failing which jurisdiction of any Court of Agartala shall be
applicable.

The successful bidder has to give at least 3-4 days on site training for each & every items/equipments by
Certified Person (if required).

Model No. of the product should be given with catalogue (if any).

Items/Goods should be sent through Registered Transporter (preferably).

Bidders are required to upload a declaration on letter head stating that the bidder has not been black-listed
& holiday listed by any Ministry/Department/Organization.

Bidder(s) is/are required to upload a self-certificate as per applicability (Annexure- E or F)
regarding offered item(s) as per Office Memorandum No. 6/18/2019-PPD dated 23-07-2022 & 24-07-
2020 and Office Memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8 February, 2021 issued by
Department of Expenditure, Procurement Policy Division, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India.
Bidders are requested to provide valid e-mail ID and phone number for further communication.

Bank A/C in the Exact Name of Bidder/Firm/Supplier with Name, A/C No., IFSC code must be furnished
with technical bid.

Bidder has to submit annual turnover not less than 4.5 lakhs per year with technical bid for last 3 (three)
years. Bidder also has to submit OEM turnover not less than 36 lakhs per year for last 3(three) years (if
bidder is not OEM).

If bidder itself OEM, has to be submit turnover not less than 36 lakhs per year for last 3 (three) years with
technical bid.

Yours sincerely,

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 8 ---
Specification: Electrometer

Scope: Measurement of open circuit voltage and open circuit current for triboele

   
 

Built in Voltage Source

en age

Current Measurement

range

Specification should be as mentioned below or better

Technical Parameters

AnnexureA © 7

Meter
Quantity: 01

nanogenerator devices

Specifications

1,000 V or higher

20 pA - 1 mA or better

Resolution

10 Peta-ohm (PQ) or better
At least 6 digit or above
Greater than 180 TQ 7

Max reading rate:
General Accurac
Compliance standard

Interfaces
Others

 

Installation & Training Free installation and training for students/ staffs/faculties at
NIT Agartala.

+2 % or better

EMC: Conforms with European Union Directive

EN61326/ EN61326-1/ EN55011

Safety: Conforms with European Union Directive
EN61010/ EN61010-1

Certificates should be supplied

GPIB or USB interface or LAN

1. Necessary measurement cables and connectors should be
provided with the meter to comply all the required
specifications cited here. Connectors should be suitable for
low noise two terminal test leads-based measurement.

2. Manufacturer should have Service Centre in India.

3. Instrument should be integrated and supplied with PC
based monitoring system with branded PC having Intel i7
13" generation processor, Windows 11, 16 GB RAM, and
512 GB SSD with 1TB hard disk, 23 inch FHD monitor,
mouse and keyboard.

One year

 

  
     

 

wf

or High Resistance Measurement

ctric

  

Offered
Specification
by the Bidder


--- Page 9 ---
WS WeaIrTal AIM SERIA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.39(12-EIE)/Purchase/Electrometer/2025 Date: / /2025

ANNEXURE — B

PRICE BID

As per BOQ

8|Page


--- Page 10 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

 

No.F.NITA.39(12-EIE)/Purchase/Electrometer/2025 Date: t.72025

ANNEXURE - C

Documents for Comprising the Bid

Sr.No. TENDER REQUIREMENT COMPLIANCE | Document
Submitted

1 Name of the Firm / Agency / Dealer / Supplier with full address including Yes/No Yes /NA

contact number and email id etc.
2 Yes/NA

3 GST Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder. Yes/NA
4 PAN Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder Vac No Yes /NA

Financial Solvency issued by Bank(as per RBI guidelines)
(in case of estimated cost is Rs.25.00 lakhs and above). Yes / No Yes/NA

Yes/NA

7 Annual Turnover Yes / No Yes /NA

       
     
     
  

 
 

 

Trade License issued by Government / Statutory Body or Company
Registration on the item(s) related to this tender. Yes/No

   

      

    
 
    

 
 
 
  
  
  

  
  

Up to date GST return / any other tax clearance certificate. (last filed GST
return, GSTR 9 and 9B)

  
 

   
  
 

6 Yes / No

   

 

    
   
 

ee Up to date Income Tax Return (Last filled ITR) Yes / No Yes /NA
“Bid Security Declaration form” on Company Letter Head
(Scanned copy to be uploaded along with Technical bid). anes sige a

 
 

 

10 Service Support details (if applicable) Yes / No Yes/NA
Certification of holiday and non-black listing (Self Certification) Yes / No Yes/NA

Certification as per memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8
12 February 2021, Dept. of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India Yes/NA
(Self Certification)
13 Proprietary Certificate from OEM to be uploaded along with the Technical Vex i'No Yes/NA
Bid in case of Proprietary items
Manufacturers Authorization Form (MAF) (if applicable) Yes/NA

Certificate under MSME, NSIC, Make-in-India & Startup as per Govt. of

15 : : : Yes/NA
India Norms (if applicable).
Experience, if any, with govt. sector /Public Undertaking /Private sector (if

16 applicable) (May be relaxed for MSME, NSIC & Startup as per Govt. of Yes/No Yes/NA
India Norm)

— hi
Any other criteria related to this tender Yes/No Yes /NA

Supplier/Firm/Bidder should accept all Terms & Conditions and

18 specification of the items given in the Tender Document. Yes / No

(Signature of the bidder)

 
  
 
 

 
     

   
 
 

  
  
 
 

Yes / No

 

 

 

   
    
      

Yes / No

  
   
 

  
 

 
 

       
     

     

 

 

9|Page


--- Page 11 ---
TSA WEIR! AIM SETA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.39(12-EIE)/Purchase/Electrometer/2025 Date: / /2025
Annexure-D

Bid Securing Declaration Form

ale es en Pansies meats ware et Tender Ref. NO: .......:....cccescseusees Tender IDS cccciecai ieee

To (insert complete name and address of the purchaser)
I/We. The undersigned, declare that:
I/We understand that, according to your conditions, bids must be supported by a Bid Securing Declaration.

I/We accept that I/We may be disqualified from bidding for any contract with you for a period of one year from the date of
notification if 1 am /We are in a breach of any obligation under the bid conditions, because I/We

a) have withdrawn/modified/amended, impairs or derogates from the tender, my/our Bid during the period of bid validity
specified in the form of Bid; or

b) having been notified of the acceptance of our Bid by the purchaser during the period of bid validity (i) fail or reuse to
execute the contract, if required, or (ii) fail or refuse to furnish the Performance Security, in accordance with the Instructions

to Bidders.

I/We understand this Bid Securing Declaration shall cease to be valid if I am/we are not the successful Bidder, upon the
earlier of (i) the receipt of your notification of the name of the successful Bidder; or (ii) thirty days after the expiration of the
validity of my/our Bid.

Signed: (insert signature of person whose name and capacity are shown)

in the capacity of (insert legal capacity of person signing the Bid Securing Declaration)
Name: (insert complete name of person signing he Bid Securing Declaration)
Duly authorized to sign the bid for an on behalf of (insert complete name of Bidder)
Dated on day of (insert date of signing)
Corporate Seal (where appropriate)

(Note: In case of a Joint Venture, the Bid Securing Declaration must be in the name of all partners to the Joint Venture that
submits the bid)

10|Page


--- Page 12 ---
TSS WENT Aa SETA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.39(12-EIE)/Purchase/Electrometer/2025 Date: / /2025
Annexure-E

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(as applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No.
F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021 regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules

(GFRs), 2017.

plamel Meagan el ek oe
pea a ee ee ee a ee ee

WCE Sooo ae enee toe nts tues Segeepeci ana eel meen (name of the bidder company) have read the clauses pertaining to the
Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref.
F.No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country that
shares a land border with India.

We hereby certify that we are not from such a country and eligible to be considered for this tender.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment, (if any), by any bidder(s) shall lead to
commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-Agartala)

For and behalf of ................ceceeeeee (Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

1ij}Page


--- Page 13 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.39(12-EIE)/Purchase/Electrometer/2025 Date: / 72025
Annexure-F

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(as applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No.
F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021 regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules
(GFRs), 2017.

 

Item Name:

Enquiry No.: Beet a ne eee ee ed Ee ee

WWeIMTIS eos go naaulatas cutie ans eer tae ep atnaneehas ees (name of the bidder company) have read the clauses pertaining to the
Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref.
F.No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country that
shares a land border with India.

We are from such a country which shares a land border with India & have been registered with the Competent Authority
as specified in the above-said order. We hereby certify that we fulfill all requirements in this regard and are eligible to be
considered.

Evidence of valid registration by the Competent Authority is attached.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment, (if any), by any bidder(s) shall lead to
commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-Agartala)

Or ANG DENA OL vic a, sgasas pis ects pane (Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

12|Page


--- Page 14 ---
TSS Weal Aa SPAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.39(12-EIE)/Purchase/Electrometer/2025 Date: /  —/2025

Annexure -G

Self-Certification on the letterhead of the company

In line with Government Public Procurement Order No. P-45021/2/2017-BE-II dt. 15.06.2017, P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II)
dated 28.05.2018, P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 29.05.2019 and P-4502 1/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 16.09.2020,

We hereby: certify that 20 atet wlscan vine pheasants acess oes oeines oes (Supplier name) are local supplier meeting requirement of
minimum local content...................:60e0 % defined in as above orders for the material against Enquiry / Tender No

We also understand false declarations will be in breach of the Code of Integrity under Rule 175(1)(i)(h) of the General
Financial Rules for which a bidder or its successors can be debarred for up to two years as per Rule 151 (iii) of the General
Financial Rules along with such other actions as may be permitted under law.

Date: Signature:
Place: Name and Designation:
Mobile no:

Office Telephone No:
Email ID: Office Seal

13|Page


--- Page 15 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.39(12-ElE)/Purchase/Electrometer/2025. 22° «22 Date: / 2025
Annexure -H
NON BLACKLISTING SELF CERTIFICATE
[To be submitted on letterhead]

I/We hereby certify that the -------------------------------------------- [Name of the company / firm] has not been ever
blacklisted/debarred by any Central / State Government / Public Undertaking / University / Institute on any account.

I/We also certify that firm will provide material as per the specification given by NIT Agartala and also abide all the terms
and conditions stipulated in the bid document.

I/We also certify that the information given in bid is true and correct in all aspects and in any case at a later date it is found
that any details provided are false and incorrect, contract given to the concerned firm or participation may be summarily
terminated at any stage, the firm will be blacklisted and NIT Agartala may impose any action as per the rules.

Date : Name :
Place :

Business Address:

Signature of Service Provider:

Seal of the Service Provider:

14|Page
