
--- Page 1 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

National Institute of Technology Agartala

 
    
 

  

Name of work: Supply and installation of electrification works in the Reaction Engg. lab (CRF-301) under DST
sponsored research project of Bio- Engineering Deptt. at NIT Agartala.

 

 

 
  

VOLUME-I

 
    

 

 

   
    
  
   
    
  
   
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SINo. PARTICULARS PAGE NO.
List of important Dates, Press Notice, NleT 3-7
Instruction to Bidders 8-18
Qualification information 19-31
Condition of Contract 32-34
Clauses of Contract 35-64
Integrity pact ¢ eer

. ia ‘ ‘ i 71-71

List of Acts and omissions for which fines can be imposed
APPENDIX and FORM 72-82
83-87

9 PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES

General condition

     

Additional condition

  
   

12 Special condition

  

List of prepared makes of material 119-120

 

 

14 Technical specification & Drawings

 

Ran dee

15 Bill of Quantities 124-127

Certifie t this DNle-T contains 127 (One Hundred Twenty Seven) pages numbered from | to 127.
f

 

 

 

 

f* | ell
10-2 Ba] 77 tof
4

JE(E) AE(E ) EE Associate Dean (P&D) (Elect.) “Te

DRAFT Nle-T NO: 136/NITA/Estate Elect./2022-2023

 

Draft Notice Inviting e-Tender for an amount of Rs. 7,93,687.00 (Rupees Seven Lakh Ninety Three Thousand Six
Hundred Eighty Seven Only) only is hereby APPROVED.

~ + alt
DEAN (P&D)
NIT Agartala

CONTRRGSOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 2 ---
mdard Sinele Bid Documents for Electrical Works

VOLUME —1

’ KY

CONTRACTOR
For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 3 ---
Page |3

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Wort

LIST OF IMPORTANT DATES

PRESS NOTICE

NOTICE INVITING E-TENDER

CONTRACTOR * ann
For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 4 ---
Page |4

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

LIST OF IMPORTANT DATES IN CONNECTION WITH THE BID FOR THE WORK.

 

Name of work:- Supply and installation of electrification works in the Reaction Engg. lab (CRF-301) under DST
sponsored research project of Bio- Engineering Deptt. at NIT Agartala.

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

 

fa. “Completion period for the work: i 30 (Thirty) Days
| 2. | Date of Publishing of Bid : / ea # yes 2022,
3. ' Period of dow nloading of Bidding | : ~ Prom:
Documents at
hitps://tripuratender.gov.in 2022.
) To:
| BT 1 me cs Heessiceses (2022.
| —- =
4 Deadline for online Bidding: danse sisessess ee

 

Time 14,00 Hours.

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. lime and Date of Opening Bid/Bids: cvaueenransellunsersssasl DODD,
| Time 15:30 Hours.

po : a ——=4
| 6. Place of Opening Bids: Estate Section, NIT Agartala
om} _

7. | Last date of Bid Validity: 180 davs from last date of bid submission.

8. Officer inviting Bids: | “Registrar, NI | ‘Agartala 7
Notes:- All the above mentioned time are as per clock time of e-procurement website https://eprocure.gov.in

NY,

é

 

CONTRACTOR : is
For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 5 ---
2 Teds went tear sora 4

National Institute of Technology Agartala Cc @)

eo Agartala, Tripura, India, Pin-- 799046

      
   

No.F.NITA-23(273E)/Estate eect /2022/, lo/- 0s Date:- /.//2/2022

PRESS NOTICE INVITING E-TENDER
SS EEN VITING E-TENDER

Sealed Percentage Rate e-tenders are invited for and on behalf of NIT Agartala from Central & State Public
Sector Undertaking / Enterprise and eligible Contractors / Firms / Agencies of appropriate class registered with state
PWDs / CPWD/ MES Railway / P & T or others registered firms for the work as per following tables.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i WT gace | oat
Ei Cost Ti Ll Date t
$1 pepeiies ‘arnest ost of ime of es of Da eer
N Name of Work Cost (Rs.) Money | Tender Doc. Complet | Submission of | Opening (if
o '
| (Rs.) (Rs.) ion bid/offers. possible) |
al |
Supply and installation
of electrification
works in the Reaction
30 €/QLZ/20
Engg. lab (CRF-301) | nn, | Aee208 LY M/02
1 7,93,687.00 | 15,875.00 500.00 (Thirty) (Upto
under DST sponsored (at 11.00AM)
: Days 05.00PM)
research project of
Bio- Engineering
l Deptt. at NIT Agartala. ;
_| = ah ===

 

Eligible bidders shall participate in bidding only in online through website https://eprocure.gov.in. Bidders
are allowed to bid 24X7 until the time of Bid closing, with option for Re-Submission, wherein only their latest
submitted Bid would be considered for evaluation. The e-Procurement website will not allow any Bidder to attempt
bidding, after the scheduled date and time. Submission of bids physically is not permitted.

Earnest Money (Refundable) and Bid Fee/tender cost (Non-Refundable) are to be paid/transferred
separately to the Institute Account No.30936141729, IFSC CODE:SBIN0011491, MICR No:799002525, State Bank of
India, NIT Agartala Branch, through Electronic Transfer/Online transfer system.

Bid(s) shall be opened through online by respective Bid openers on behalf of the NIT Agartala and the same

shall be accessible by intending Bidder through website https://eprocure.gov.in. However, intending bidders and
other Bidders may like to be Present at the Bid opening. For any enquiry, please contact by e-mail to

estateelectrical.nita@gmail.com.

Any subsequent corrigendum will be available in the website only.

Details are available in the Institute’s website: http//www.nita.ac.in & https://eprocure.gov.in.

SSB hep ig 3a

Registrar, NIT Agartala

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, P.O- NIT Agartala, West Tripura, Pin: - 799046, Tel. No 035 1-23.46630/ 6629,
Fax. No, 0381-2846360, Url :- WWW. nita.ac.in


--- Page 6 ---
iz NIT Agartala.

Standard Single Bid Documents tor Electrical Works

National Institute of Technology Agartala

NOTICE INVITING e-Tender

Ihe Registrar, NIT. Agartala, West Tripura on behall of the “NIT, Agartala’ invites sealed Percentage rate e-
Hender(s) from (Central & State Public Sector undertaking / Enterprise and eligible Contractors / Firms / Agencies of
approprivte class registered with PWD / TTAADC / MES / CPWD / Railway / Other State PWD or others registered firms

for the following work:-
Si. Name of Work Estimated Earnest

Noe Cost (Rs) Money(2%)
Rs

     
 
     
   
 

  
 

 

   

 

Time of \ Cost of E-
Tender

Last Date of
Submission of | Opening (If
bid/offers. sible,

  
 
 
   
   

  

 

 

| Supply and installation of
| electrification works in
the Reaction Engg. lab

   
  
  
 
 

__ 2022

  
  

30

  
  
  
  
    

 

  
  
 

“+ | 7.93:687 es _/_ nor
,  (ORF-301) under DST | 7.95.687.00 | i s.g75.g9 | (Thirty) 500.00 | (Upto 2.30 | (at 3:30 PM)
sponsor research Days PM)
project ol Bio-

Engineering Deptt. at

i: Bid documents consisting of qualification information and eligibility criteria of bidders, plans, specifications,
drawings, the schedule of quantities of the various classes of work to be done and the set of terms and conditions of the
contract to be complied with by the bidder, can be seen in the website litps://eprocure.gov.in al free of cost between

anal
2. Earnest Money(Relundable) and Bid Fee/e- Tender cost(Non-Re fundable) are to be paid /transferred separately
to the Institute Account No.30936 141729, IFSC CODE:SBINO011491, MICR No:799002525, State Bank of India,
NIT Agartala Branch, through Electronic Transfer/Online transfer system,
3. The participating Bidders will have to upload the scan copy (receipt copy) of the transaction (as a single PDF file
of 100 dpi resolution), against the related Bid fee & Earnest money, along with the Technical bid.
A a) Bid shall be uploaded in single-bid system with all Pre-Qualification and other details. Bidder shall participate

in bid online through website https://eprocure.zov.in, for which they shall register/enroll themselves in the same website,
Submission of bids physically is not permitted.

b) Te participate in bid, the bidder shall have a valid Class 2/Class 3 Digital Signature Certificate (DSC).
obniined frony the certifving authorities enlisted by Controller of Certifying Authorities (CCA) at hitp://eca.gov.in

c) Bids will be opened online through website htps://eprocure. ZOVAD Al cvieesees HIS OD x09 Pecans abn io in

the office of the Estate Engineer, NIT Agartala. If the office happens to be closed on the date of opening of the bids as
specified, the bids will be opened on the next working day at the same time and venue.

=. If'a bidder is enlisted in the CPWD as well as in MES, P&T, Railways, State PWDs or others he shall be eligible to
bid for works up to the amount permitted by virtue of his enlistment.
6. If the percentage quoted in the pre-defined BOQ by a bidder is found to be either abnormally high or due to

unethical practices adopted at the time of bidding process, such bids shall be rejected.

Fach Bidder shall submit only one bid for the work. A bidder who submits more than one bid will cause
disqualification of all the bids submitted by the bidder.

8. lhe bidder. at the bidders own responsibility and risk, is advised to visit and examine the Site of Work and its
surroundings and obtain all information that may be necessary for preparing the bid for entering into a contract, for
construction of the work. The costs of visiting the site shall be at the Bidder’s own expense.

9. A) The bid for the work shall remain valid for acceptance for a period 180 (one hundred eighty) days from the
last date of submission of the bid.

B) If any bidder withdraws his bid within the validity period then the NIT authority shall, without prejudice to
any other right or remedy. be at liberty to forfeit the carnest money (50%,

©) In full (100%), in case the bidder fails to commence the work specified in the biding documents on 15th
day or such time period as mentioned in lewer of award alter the date on which the Engineer-In-Charge issues written
orders to commence the work, or from the date of handing over of the site, whichever is later, the Government
shall. without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit whole of the earnest money absolutely.

10. Rate Quotation:

(i) Bidder shall quote rate in figures only in the Bill of Quantity (BOQ) which is in MS-Exeel (macro enabled)

and should be downloaded from the e-procurement application https://eprocure.gov.in and the same BOQ
should be filled up properly and uploaded as a part of bid with digital signing.

(ii) Name of bidder must be written in the appropriate field of Bill of Quantity (BOQ) by bidder.

woe &

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

CONTRACTOR


--- Page 7 ---
Page |7

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Il. Earnest Money of those bidders who are disqualified after technical evaluation will be returned to the
respective bidder's bank account as used during on line payment, once the online process of “Award of Contract’
(AOC) is completed in the e-procurement portal.

Earnest Money of all bidders including 1.1 will be returned to their bank account once process of “Award
of Contract” (AOC) is completed. In case of lowest rate quoting bidder ic. LI, the bidder is to deposit a “Bank
Guarantee” of equivalent amount of the Earnest \loney from any Nationalized Bank having branch at Agartala in the
format as prescribed by the E-Tender Inviting Authority (TIA) and to be deposited within 15(fifteen) days from the
date of letter communicating to deposit the amount in favour of the Registrar, NIT Agartala by the bidder.

On receipt of “Bank Guarantee” from the L1 Bidder, shall scrutinized its authenticity, validity and
amount as per bid document,

12. The security deposit will be collected by deductions trom the running bills of the Bidders at the rate 10%
including earnest money (2%) and “Performance Bank Guarantee"(5%).The earnest money and Performance Bank
Guarantee shall be treated as part of security deposit.

A sum @ 10% of the gross amount of the bill shall be deducted from each running bill of the Bidder till the sum
along with the earnest money and “Performance Bank Guarantee”(5%), equal to amount of 10% of the bided value of
the work .

13. If an individual makes the bid, it shall be digitally signed by hinvher and the undertaking shall also be signed
with his/her full name and his/her address. If a firm makes the bid, a member of the firm shall digitally sign it and the
undertaking shall be signed with the co-partnership name by the sic member of the firm, who shall also sign his/her own
name, and the name and address of each member of the firm shull be given. If the bid is made by a corporation, it shall be
digitally signed by a duly authorized officer and the undertaking shall also be signed by the same duly authorized officer
who shall produce with his/her bid satisfactory evidence of his/her suthorization, Such corporation submitting bids may be
required to furnish evidence of its corporate existence. before the cor ‘ract is executed,

14. Phe percentage rate quoted by the Bidder shall be deemed to be inclusive of the sales and other levies, duties,
royalties, cess, toll taxes of Central and State Governments, local bodies and authorities that the Bidder will have to pay for
the performance of this contract. The employer will perform such duties about the deduction of such taxes at source as per
applicable law.

15. Ifa bidder quotes nil rates against each item in Pereentare rate e-Tender or does not any percentage above/ below
in the total amount of the e-Tender or any seetion/ sub head in por cnioge bid, the bid shall be treated as invalid.

16. The eligibility criteria documents shall be opened first ou due date and time. The technical cum commercial/
financial bid of the qualified bidder will be opened letter

17. It is mandatory to upload scanned copies of all docunwuis us specified in the bid document, If these documents
are not uploaded, then bid will become invalid and summarily be reveled.

13. On opening date, the bidder can login und see the bid opening process. Interested bidder may be present during
bid opening in due date and time.

19. The NIT Agartala reserves the right to reject any prospeetive applications/ bids without arising any reason thereof
and to restrict the cost of qualified contractors to any number table by it,

20, The defeet liability is Ol(one) year calculated from ive completion date of the work except otherwise mentioned
against some work. The bidder shall do routine maintenance tree \ | within the defect liability period.

21. Other details can be seen in the bid documens for any enquiry, please contact by e-mail to

estateclectrical. nila @email.com

 

(SIGNATURE)

For and on behalf of NIT
Agartala

fea oe

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 8 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

INSTRUCTIONS TO E-TENDERERS

< a\ L ”
: OW
Le

GN TRAC LOR +. ina pee
pets For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 9 ---
-ave |9
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

TABLE OF CON
STRUCT

 

 

   

oS eeee ewe es eeee soos s oes oe See eee Sees eee ee eed

  

‘
| '
} 3 | Qualificavon data of the E-Tenderers

Waheohbbeesaneeti Spaepeeeaesee rns ee naa e eae ee Erna araaletyoraerenn need
4 | No of E-Tender per E-Tenderer
eer etennennthnteienientcietncednerisameanieinnneiabetetneicetenbnnaess ionneeannnaees ennai ne ae a aeoeesee!

5 } Cost of E-Tendenng

    

 

| Site Vinit

 

   
    
     
   
   
   
   
     
    

 

 

a | Clarificairan on E-Tender Documents
eecceeeeeeee! ane ee nice aan Ereeer See
I

9 £ Amendment to E-Tender Documents

Cc. | PREPARATION OF E-TENDER.

1

10 | Language of the E-Tender
|

i i i ne edge ieetent ahaiciaianaanaaian an ee eg a ene ie enn teas-teneeemeneal

i } Documents compnaing of the E-Tender

|
wana eee cents cnn ect eet nent fen cena ee een sees teee es ae ee er
|

iz E-Tender Offer

nu Validity of E- Tender

 

 

 

 

bins + arenes keer — a _ - ail

Sc a a a ceae dace aban ppemine eae taieedbenteakt
D. | SUBMISSION OF E-TENDER, |

i ea ~ . ———s a Se eee a wee ae ae ee a a,

| Submasson of E-Tender

 

 

an eee eer eeeeeet oe ne ane eee nena eeeaeeweaesaecs cosseemescesseeed
Lest date / tiene for Submasion of the E-Tender(s),

oeccsseecssseseeeeseneseseeeeeeesieeee dhioassncseseseeecsesei1iscccieseeeese siete pecpesmassiseesce ree eer ne a a ee

 

 

 

 

| 2 | Process to be Confidential
F. | AWARD OF CONTRACT
Bb i Award Criteria
1

 

 

CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 10 ---
Page |10

Standard Single Bid Documents lor Electrical Works

INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS
A. GENERAL

Name of work: Supply and installation of electrification works in the Reaction Engg. lab (CRF-301) under DST sponsored
research project of Bio- Engineering Deptt. at NIT Agartala.

lL. Generak

1.1 rhe Registrar, NIT Agartala, invites bid for the above work during the period, for which dates and time
specified in the NIT. Bid will be opened by the designated bid-opener as selected at time of online e-Tender
creation on behalf of the NIT Agartala on the date and time mentioned in the NIT.

12 The bid document shall be available in the prescribed form through e-procurement application
hitps://eprocure.2oy.in,

1.3 fo participate in the bid, the bidder shall have a valid Class 2/Class 3 Digital Signature certificate (DSC), obtained
from either of the certifying authorities. enlisted by Controller of Certifying Authorities (CCA) at hulp //eca.gov.in

4 Vhe Bidder shall Enroll himseli/hersell in the e-procurement portal hitps://eprocure.gov. in and obtain User ID and
Password for bidding.

15 On publication of the bid, bidder shall download the DNIT and all the work items from website as mentioned in the
DNIT and minutely go through the instructions/terms and conditions/critical dates/eligibility criteria of the DNIT.

1.6 Downloaded DNIT document is to be uploaded back and digitally signed as a part of bid, and as a proof of
acceptance of all terms and conditions in the DNIT.

~~

Earnest Money( Refundable) and Bid Fee/e-Tender cost(Non-Refundable) are to be paid /transferred separately
to the Institute Account No,30936141729, IFSC CODE:SBIN0011491, MICR No:799002525, State Bank of India,
NIT Agartala Branch. through Electronic lransfer/Online transfer system.

24 Che Bidders shall have to scan all the required documents mentioned in this DNIT except *DNIT’ & ‘BOQ’, into
PDF format of 100 dpi resolution, for uploading as part of Bid.

22 Bill of Quantity (BOQ), which is the percentage Rate quoting sheet in MS-Excel shall be downloaded, filled up
properly and uploaded with the bid after digital signing. The Bidder shall always open the BOQ sheet with Macro
Enabled. /

ta
hed

The dates stipulated in the bid notice are firm and under any circumstances, they will not be relaxed unless
officially extended

24 Bidders are ullowed to bid 24x7 until the time of Bid closing, with option for Re-Submission, wherein only their
latest submitted Bid would be considered for evaluation, The e-Procurement website will not allow any Bidder to
attempt budding. aller the scheduled date and time,

235 Bidders shall furnish a declaration (Annexure-Il of pre-qualification information) as a part of bid that they are not
been blacklisted by any department in Tripura. Any wrong declaration in this regard which comes to notice al a
later date will disqualify them and the bids so received will be rejected.

2.6 The successful bidder is expected to complete the work within the time-period specified in the NIT.

3 Firms Eligible to k- Tender:
het Hhe Firs wir
1) Possess the valid registration in the class and category mentioned in the NIT and satisfy all the conditions
therein.
ii) Are not blacklisted or debarred or suspended by the Government for Whatever the reason, prohibiting them
not to continue in the contracting business.
iii) Have complied with the eligibility criteria speci fied in the NIT are the eligible e- Tenderers.
4, Pre-Qualification data of the Bidders
4.1 The bidder should satisfy the pre-qualification criteria as fixed here under and in case any bidder is not
found satisfying any of such criteria as fixed, his/her bid will be summarily rejected. The bidder shall furnish
the following particulars in the PDI of 100 dpi resoltition.

a) Copies of documents relating to the
(1) Registration of the firm/Registration as Civil Bidder/Partnership deed/Artieles of Association,
(it) Professional Tax clearance certificate,
(iii) GST registration certificate,
(iv) Valid license regarding engagement of workers in the contract works from Labour
Department, etc.

(v) Experience certificate from Clint regarding successfully completion of similar nature of the
work mentioned in the bid document.

S_ ai

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 11 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Note The Partnership firms, which are registered as Bidders shall intimate the change in partnership deed, if any,
within one month of such change. Failure to notify the change to the registration authority in time will entail
the firms to forfeit their registration and their bid will be rejected. The intimation of change of partners if any
and the acceptance by the Registration authority may be enclosed,

1.2 Bids from Joint Ventures are not acceptable unless specifically stated otherwise.

4 OLALIFICATION CRITERIA,
i, Availability (either owned or leased or to be procured against mobilization advance of the following key and
critical equipment for this work.).
si ——— SSS _ “T — 1
| Equipment Type and Characteristics | Minimum No, required.
lower Ladder
Clamp Meter
Megger
| Earthing Tester
5 Aluminium Ladder
6 Crimping Tools
7 Serew Driver Set
8 Cutting Machine
Y Salety equipments
1() Helmet |
I Rubber Gloves
12 Safety Harness Belt
13 First Aid Kit |
\4 Discharge Rod 33 KV
15 | Grass cutting tools
16 Plier, Cutter
7 Spanner Tool
Is. | waneeeeene
19
i) |
| Siaaiels
b. Availability of the Key personnel
Costof | Contract [ __ Requirement of Technical staff Minimum Designation
work period Qualification Number Experience
(Rs. in | (months) | | (Years)
lakh) | ee ro ee eee
Mure than »4 i) Project Manager with degree | 10 | Principal Technical
}Ou in corresponding discipline of Representative
Engineering
1) Graduate Engineer | | 5 Technical represents
iii) Graduate Engineer | 2 | Nil Technical Representative
| | or
Diploma Engineer | 2 5
— = — +— ——$__—_ . —_
500 | Is i)Graduate Engineer | 5 Principal Technical
to 1000 Representative
ii) Graduate Engineer 2 Nil Technical Representative
or
: | Diploma Engineer ANZ 3.
200 12 (Graduate Engineer wy 5 Principal Technical
to 500) | Representative
| ii) Graduate Engineer | Nil Technical Representative
or
| Diploma Engineer eb | 5

 

 

CONTRACTOR

Z

 

GU.

a)

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 

 


--- Page 12 ---
Page |12
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

 

   
 
    
   
 

 

so | 9 | 7) Graduate Engineer Principal
Ww 200 Representative.
10 50 | 6 i) Graduate Engineer Principal Technical
Representative.

or
Diploma Engineer
Notes:

|. *Cost of work,’ in table above, means corresponding amount available for work in sanctioned Preliminary estimate.
2. ‘Contract period’ indicated, in table above, should not be considered as standard schedule but should be actually
determined as per Appendix 17 of CPWD works manual for each work.

3 Rate of recovery in case of non compliance of Clause 36(i) be stipulated at following rates:-

      
 
 
  
      
  

   

  
   

 

SLNo. | __ Qualification
(i) Project Manager with Degree Oh Rs, 40,000/-p.m.
(ii) Rs, 30,000/-p.m-

Graduate Engineer Nil
or 4. Rs. 25,000/-p.m.
Diploma Engineer 5
Nothing extra need to be added while preparing market rate justified amount of the work if stipulation is made as per
above recommended scale of requirement of technical staff.
Requirement of technical staff and their experience can be varied depending upon nature of work and contract period
determined as per Appendix 17
In event requirement of Technical staff is varied and estimated expenditure on technical staff worked out on the basis of
75% of the rate of recovery exceeds 1% of the cost of work, excess may be added while preparing market rate justified
amount of the work.

c. Solvency certificate to be produced by the bidder / agency for an amount equal to @ 25% of the estimated

cost put to bid.

d. The agencies/firms who have satisfactorily executed individually each category works as per following

criteria during last 05(five) years are eligible for the works:

 

   

(1} One work of 80% of cost of work.
(11) Two work of 60% of cost of work.
(iii) Three work of 40% of cost of work.

The value of executed works shall be brought to current costing level by enhancing the actual value of work at
simple rate of 7% per annum, calculated from the date of completion to the last date of submission of bid,

4.4 Even though the bidders meet the above qualifying criteria, they are liable to be disqualified / debarred /
suspended / blacklisted if they have.

¥ Furnished false / fabricated particulars in the forms, statements and / annexures submitted in proof of the
qualification requirements and/or

¥ Not turned up for entering into agreement, when called upon.

¥ Record of poor progress such as abandoning the work, not properly completing the contract, inordinate delays
in completion, litigation history or financial failures ete. and/or

¥ Participated in the previous biding for the same work and had quoted unreasonably high bid percentage and

¥ [ven while execution of the work, if found that the work was awarded to the Bidder based on false / fake
certificates of experience, the Bidder will be blacklisted and necessary action will be taken as per rules.

~
in

For bids up to 15% less than the estimated contract value of work, no additional security deposit is required. But
for bids less than 15% of the Estimated Contract Value (ECV) of work, the difference between the bided amount
and 85% of the Estimated Contract Value, shall be paid by the successful bidder at the time of concluding
agreement as an additional security to fulfill the contract through a Bank Guarantee or Demand Draft on a
Nationalized Bank / Scheduled bank in the preseribed format valid till completion of the work in all respects.

a) If the percentage quoted by a bidder is found to be either abnormally high or it is found that unethical practices
is adopted at the time of bidding process. such bids shall be rejected.

b) A bidder submitting a bid which the bid accepting authority considers excessive and or indicative of insufficient
knowledge of current prices or definite attempt of profiteering will render himself liable to be debarred
permanently from biding or for such period as the bid accepting authority may decide. The bidder overall
percentage should be based on the controlled prices for the materials, if any, fixed by the Government or the
reasonable prices permissible for the bidder to charge a private purchaser under the provisions of clause-6 of

/,__ is

eRe For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 13 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

 

hoarding and profiteering prevention ordinance of 1943 as amended from time to time and on similar principle in
regard to labour supervision on the construction.

5. Number of Bid per Bidder:

3.1 Each Bidder shall submit only one Bid for the work. A bidder who submits more than one bid will cause
disqualification of all the bids submitted by the bidder,

b>. Cost of Biding

O.1 The bidder shall bear all casts associated with the preparation and submission of his Bid and the Bid Inviting

\uthority will in no-case be responsible and liable for those costs.
Site Visit.

7.1 The Bidder, at the bidder's own responsibility and risk is advised to visit and examine the Site of Work and its
surroundings and obtain all information that may be necessary for preparing the bid for entering into a contract, for
construction of the work. The costs of visiting the site shall be at the bidder's own expense.

If the rates quoted by a e-Tenderer are found to be either abnormally high or it is found that wnethical practices is
adopted at the time of e-Tendering process, such e-Tender shall be rejected,
6. Bid Document

4. Contents of Bid document,
8.1 One set of Bid document, comprises of the following:

i. Notice Inviting Bids (NIT).

ii. Instruction to Bidders

iii, Forms of Bid and qualification data of the bidder.

iv, Conditions of Contract.

v. Clauses of Contract

Vi. Integrity pact

vii Listof Acts and omissions for which fines can be imposed
ii, PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES

Is, General condition

x, Additional condition

Ml. Special condition

xii. List of prepared makes of material
Xlil. Specifications
stv, Drawings,

\v. Forms of Securities. ie. Earnest Money. Additional Security ete,
AVE Bull of Ouiantities

9, Clarification on E-Tender Documents
0] A prospective E-Tenderer requiring any clarification on E-Tender documents may contact the E-Tender Inviting
Officer at the address indicated in the NIT. The E-Tender Inviting Officer will also respond to any request for
clarification, received through post.

10. Amendment to Bid Documents

10.1 Betore the last date for submission of Bids, the Bid Inviting Authority may modify any of the Contents of the Bid
Notice. Bid documents by issuing amendment Addendum corrigendum.

10,2 \ny addendum/amendments/corrigendum issued by the Bid Inviting Authority shall be part of the bid Document
and it shall be published in the e-procurement portal at hittps://tripuraTender.gov.in. Registered Bidders shall be
notified of the related Corrigendum(s) by portal auto-generated e-mail. However, Public Works Department, Govt.
of Tripura shall bear no responsibility or liability arising out of non-receipt of the same in time or otherwise.
Bidders are requested to visit the website frequently to check whether there is any related Corrigendum(s) or not.

(3 le vive prospective Bidders reasonable time to take an addendum / amendments / corrigendum into account in
preparing their bids. the Bid biviting Authority may extend if necessary. the last date for submission of bids

B. PREPARATION OF BIDS

I. Language of the Bid.

TH.) All documents relating to the bid shall be in the English Language only,

12. Documents comprising of the Bid.

eu The bit comprise the following \

y. wall _—_ v Gy

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 14 ---
Page | 14

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

13.

Ia

14.

14

15.

15

ian

i)

=

a. Drawings.
b. Qualification Information and supporting documents of the bidders.
C. Bill of Quantities (BOQ) and the Bid Offer.

Bid Offer:

Hill of Quantities (BOQ) called Schedule “A” and the bid offer accompanies the bid document as Volume-Il. It
shall be explicitly understood that the Bid Inviting Authority does not accept any responsibility for the correctness
or completeness of this schedule “A’ and this schedule “A” is liable to alterations by omissions, deductions or
additions at the discretion of the Executive/Superintending Engineer or as set forth in the conditions of the
contract. The Schedule “A” shall contain the items of work indicated as Part-l. The percentage quoted by the
Bidder shall be applicable only to Part-I, The bidders will have to state clearly their willingness to execute the
work at certain specific percentage of excess or less or at par of the ECV indicated in Part-I.

For percentage rate e-1 ender, the Bill of Quantities (BOQ) contains the quantities & rates worked out by the
Department and the amount for each item and total value of the estimated contract. The bidder should workout his
own rates keeping in view the work, site conditions and quote the rate (in figures only) in MS Excel BOQ sheet
with whieh be intends to execute the work. Thus. the tola] amount (for overall quoted bid percentage) as computed
through Macro Enabled MS Excel BOQ Sheet would be the quoted offered amount for the work, which will be
shown in figures & words automatically

The bid offer shall be for the whole work and not for individual items / part of the work.

All duties. taxes, and other levies payable by the Bidder as per State / Central Government rules or value added tax
(VAT) shall be included in the bid percentage! rate quoted by the bidder

The bided contract amount as computed based on overall bid percentage is subject to variation during the
performance of the Contract in accordance with variation in quantities etc.

Validity of Bids:
Bids shall remain valid for a period of not less than 180(one hundred eighty) days from the last date of bidding
specified in NIT

During the above-mentioned period, no plea by the bidder for any sort of modification of the bid based upon or
arising out of any alleged misunderstanding of misconceptions or mistake or for any reason will be entertained.

in exceptional circumstances, prior to expiry of the original time limit, the E-Tender Inviting Authority (TLA)
may request the bidders to extend the period of validity for a specified additional period. Such request to the
Bidders shall be made in writing. A Bidder may refuse the request without forfeiting his Earnest Money. A Bidder
agrecing to the request will not be permitted to modify his Bid, but will be required to extend the validity of his
Larnest Money Tor a period of the extension

Earnest Vioney

The bidders shall pay online, Earnest Money equivalent to 2% (two percent) of estimated cost put to e-Tender
as specified in the NIT.

Earnest Money is to be paid electronically over the online payment as mentioned in bid document in time with bid
submission.

Earnest Money of those bidders who are disqualified after technical evaluation will be returned to the
respective bidder's bank account as used during on line payment, once the online process of “Award of
Contract’ (AOC) is completed in the e-procurement portal,

Earnest Money of all bidders including L1 will be returned to their bank account once process of “Award of
Contract” (AOC) is completed. In case of lowest rate quoting bidder i.e. L1, the bidder is to submit a “Bank
Guarantee" in favour of the concerned Executive Engineer, of equivalent amount of the Earnest Money from
any Nationalized Bank having branch at Agartala in the format as prescribed by the E-Tender Inviting Authority
(TIA) and to be deposited within 15(fifteen) days from the date of letter communicating to the bidder.

On receipt of “Bank Guarantee” from the L.| Bidder, NIT Authority shall serutinized its authenticity, validity
and amount as per bid document.

Once the process of AOC is completed, Refund of Earnest Money for all cases including L1 will take place in
the system to credit the same amount to the respective bank account of all the bidders participated in the bid.

/— a

CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 15 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

16
16.1

 

Document DN
i Jak an
3 | Finaneial | iv) Bank Solvency, Forms of security
Details
4 Machinery v) Availability of, Key & critical construction / quality control equipment
Details | (Statement-I);
= a. Fs = T Sa ee ee ne : =
5 Mise. vi) Information regarding any litigation, with Government during the last 5(five)
| document years. in which the Bidder is invalved in (Statement-H1):
6 lechnical vii) Availability of key personnel for administration / site management and
details | execution viz., echnical personnel required for the work (Statement -ID);
7 Experience viii) Experience certificate from Clint regarding successfully completion of similar
es | ; Lil nature of the work mentioned in the bid document,

In ease of failure to submit the “Bank Guarantee” by the LI within the prescribed time, the earnest money
so deposited in the portal during the bid. will be automatically treated as forfeited to the Government account.

Earnest Money so deposited by the bidders will not carry any interest and it will be dealt with as provided in
the condition stipulated in the bid.

The Earnest Money shall also be forfeited.

(a) In 50%, ifthe Bidder withdraws the Bid during the validity period of Bid. In such case, the bidder is to
deposit that amount i.e. 50% of the Earnest Money separately either in the form of De-Call or Demand
Draft to the government to facilitate the E-Tender Inviting Authority (TIA) to release the entire amount of
buries! Money through on-line. Failure to deposit the said 50% of the Earnest Money within
preseribed time as per letter of TEA, will attract forfeiture of entire (100%) Earnest Money,

(a) In full (100%), in case the Bidder fails to commence the work specified in the bid documents on 15"
(fifteenth) day or such time period as mentioned in letter of award after the date on which the Engineer-in-
Charge issues written orders to commence the work or from the date of handing over the site, whichever is
later. In this case. mode of earnest money will be in the form of “Bank Guarantee”,

Alteration

m4

so iilteration which is made by the bidder in the contract form. the conditions of the contract, the drawings,
specilications or statements / formats or quantities accompanying the same will be recognized; and, if any such
alterations are made the bid will be void,

CC. SUBMISSLON OF BLDS
Submission of Bids:
The Bidders, who are desirous of participating in bid, shall submit their Pre-Qualification and other details ete:, in
the Standard formats prescribed in the bid documents through the application hitps://eprocure.gov.in

List af documents to be scanned and uploaded:

\. Documents to be kept in “My Document” folder of Bidder: The following documents, as per standard
format detailed in bid document, or as per standard dictated by Regulatory/ Statutory bodies, shall be scanned and
uploaded along with the bid document as per requirements.

For euse of biding, the bidders shall sean the following documents at 100 dpi resolution and upload them
as per the folder structure provided in his/her “My Document’, which is provided free of cost to all bidders,
post his/her registration in the application https://eprocure.gov.in. This operation is expected to be completed,
before commencement of actual biding by the bidder

 

 

SL holder Name Documents to be uploaded

 
  
    
  
  
   
     
   
 

 

 

BIS/ Mig Copies of documents relating to the

lie/ Dealership | i) Registration of the firm/Registration as Civil Bidder/Partnership deed/ Articles
of Association,

ii) Walid license regarding engagement of workers in the contract works from
Labour Department, Government of Tripura, ete.

2, | DNIT | iii) Downloaded DNIT as a proof of acceptance of all terms and conditions in the

 

 

 

 

  

 

  

 

SU % #£

CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 16 ---
Page |16

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

 

8 | Pas related | Copies of documents relating to the
| document
ix) Professional Tax Clearance certificate,
| | | GST registration certificate,

 

During actual bidding. the bidder shall select’ check these documents from his’ her My Document, which will
unsure completion of biding within the same session, even if the bidder is connecting to the application over a slow
speed network

B. Documents required during actual Bidding: In addition to the documents kept in “My Document” folder,
the following documents are also to be uploaded to the e-Procurement application during actual biding.

i) Checklist as per Annexure-l.

ii) Declaration of the Bidder as per Annexure-I1.

iii) Undertaking as per Annexure-IIl,

i) Bio! Quantity (BOQ)

vj Portis «i security

vi) Schedule-A as per Annexure-V1.

vii) Certificate from the Clint regarding Successfully completed the similar nature of works
Note-1:

Bidder shall take separate printout of the formats of Checklist (Annexure-1), Declaration (Annexure-II),
Undertaking (Annexure-1I1), Bank solvency, Performance Bank Guarantee, Schedule-A (Annexure-VI) and Statement- I
toy IN cas mentioned above). He / She shall fill the necessary information & put signature (mandaterily with black ink)
with stamp/seal, and then sean them into PDF (in 100 dpi resolution). Finally, those documents should be uploaded
(with digital signing) either in Bidder’s “My Document” or actual bidding, as the case may be.

\o.3 Hany of the certificates/documents furnished by the Bidder, found to be false / fabricated / bogus, the bidder
will be liable to blacklisted and their Earnest Money will be forfeited.

17 Last date / time for Submission of the Bids.
17.1 Bids must be submitted not later than the date and time specified in NIT.

i792 The bsccutive Engineer may extend the dates for issue and receipt of Bids by issuing an amendment in which case
all rights and obligations of the Executive Engineer and the bidders will remain same as previously.

18 Late Bids.

i181 The e-Procurement application https://eprocure.eov.in will not allow any Bidder to attempt bidding, after the
scheduled date and time preseribed in NIT.

D. BID OPENING AND EVALUATION

 

19 Bid Opening

i9 | The bids will be opened online by the Bid openers on behalf NIT Agartala at the time, date and venue as specified
in the bid documents. Bids shall be serutinized in accordance with the conditions stipulated in the Bid document. In
case of any discrepancy of non-adherence Conditions, the Bid accepting authority shall communicate the same
which will be binding both on the bid Opening authority and the Bidder. In case of any ambiguity, the decision
taken by the Bid Accepting Authority on bids shall be final.

20 Bid Evaluation and Comparison of Bids.

20.1 All the statement. documents, certificates, bank guarantee, BOQ (bill of quantity) etc., shall be submitted/uploaded
hy the bidder will be verified. for evaluation of bids, The clarifications. particulars, if any. required from the bidders,
will be obtained by addressing the bidders. Bids will be evaluated against the specified parameters / criteria same as
in the case of conventional bids and the qualified bidders will be identified. The result of bids evaluation can be seen
in the e-procurement application htips./eprocure.gov.inby all the bidders who participated in the Bid,

The ‘BOQ Comparative Chart’ generated & displayed by system through the e-procurement portal, after the
opening of Bid, will show the amount calculated based on percentage rate quoted by the bidders. The bidder shown
as lowest (1.1) in the bid rank of the ‘BOQ Summary Details’, may not be the lowest always. The prescri

JA gl

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Mw
°
(i

CONTRACTOR


--- Page 17 ---
Page |17

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

authority (Le. Technical/Financial Bid Evaluation Committee) in the Department will prepare a ‘Comparative
Statement’ considering all parameters as per conditions given in the bid document. This ‘Comparative Statement’,
declaring lowest bidder (11), will he displayed in the e-procurement portal subsequently.

‘hs Detiils of “Technical/Financial Bid Evaluation Committee’ shall be uploaded in the e-
procurement portal litips: eprocure vo. in and all the bidders can access the same.

Discrepancy in Bid percentage quoted.

-| Bids shall be scrutinized in accordance with the conditions stipulated in the Bid document. Bidder shall quote rate
in percentage in figures only. BOQ (in MS-Exeel format) shall be open with Macro Enabled for automatic
conversion from figures to words. In case of any ambiguity, the decision taken by the Bid Accepting Authority on
Bidders shull be Anal

mw

tJ

Process to be Confidential.
| Information relating to the examination, clarification, evaluation and comparison of Bids and recommendations for
the award of a contract shall not be disclosed to the Bidders or any other persons not officially concerned with such
process until the award to the successful Bidder has been announced by the bid accepting authority. Any effort by a
Bidder to influence the processing of Bids or award decisions may result in the rejection of his Bid.

No Bidder shall conwet the Superimending Engineer or any authority concerned with finalization of bids on any
Hhutler relating to its Bid trom the time of the Bid opening to the time the Contract is awarded, If the Bidder wishes
to bring additional information to the notice of the Superintending Engineer, it should do so in writing.

Belore recommending / accepting the bid. the bid recommending / accepting authority shall verify the correctness of
certilicates submitted to meet the eligibility criteria and specifically experience. The authenticated agreements of
previous works executed by the lowest bidder may be called for,

i]
i]

E. AWARD OF CONT

 

23) Award Criteria /

31 The bxecutive’ Superintending Engineer / Chief Engineer will award or recommend to the Competent bid accepting
authority for award of the contract to the Bidder who is found Technically Qualified as per the Bid conditions and
whose Offer Rate is lowest.

3.2 The bid accepting authority reserves the right to accept or reject any Bid or all bids and to cancel the Bidding process,

at any time prior to the award of Contract, without thereby incurring any liability to the affected Bidder or Bidders or
any obligation to inform the affected Bidder or Bidders of the reasons for such action.

a
ed

24 Notification of Award and Signing of Agreement.

| The Bidder whose Bid has been aecepted will be notified of the award of the work by the any authorized official, prior
fo expiration of the Bid validity period by registered letter. This letter (hereinafter and in the Conditions of Contract
called “Letter of Acceptance”) will indicate the sum that the Government will pay the Bidder in consideration of the
execution, completion, and maintenance of the Works by the Bidder as prescribed by the Contract (hereinafter and in
the Contract called the “Contract Amount”),

tenet
tw

When a bid is to be accepted the concerned bidder shall attend the office of the concerned official on the date fixed in
the Letter of acceptance. Upon intimation being given by the authority of acceptance of his bid, the bidders shall make
pasment of the additional security deposit wherever needed by way of “Demand Draft” or “Deposit at Call” obtained
Iran a Notionalized Scheduled Bank with required validity period and sign an agreement in the form prescribed by
the department for the due fulfillment of the contract. Failure to attend the authority’s office on the date fixed, in the
written intimation, to enter into the required agreement shall entail forfeiture of the Earmmest Money deposited. The
written agreement to be entered into between the Bidder and the Government shall be the foundation of the rights and
obligations of both the parties and the contract shall not be deemed to be complete until the agreement has first been
signed by the Bidder and then by the proper officer authorized to enter into contract on behalf of the Government.

24.3 The suecessful bidder has to sign an agreement within a period of 15 days from the date of receipt of communication
oF acceptance of his bid. On failure to do so his bid will be cancelled duly forfeiting the Earmest Money. paid by him

without issuing any further notice and action will be initiated for black listing the bidder

23) Corruptor Fraudulent Practices

A, Ce
fe

CONERASTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 18 ---
Page |18

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

25.) The Government require that the bidders / suppliers / Bidders under Government financed contracts, observe the
highest standard of ethics during the procurement and execution of such contracts. In pursuance of this policy, the
Caoverment

(a)

ib)

(c)

(d)

Define for the purposes of the provision, the terms set forth below as follows:
(i) “Corrupt practices” means the offering, giving, receiving or soliciting of anything of value to influence
the action of a Government official in procurement process or in contract execut ion: and

(ii) “Fraudulent practice” means a misrepresentation of facts in order to influence a procurement process or
the execution of a contract to the detriment of the Government and includes collusive practice among
Bidders (prior to or after Bid submission) designed to establish in Bid prices at artificial non-competitive
levels and to deprive the Government of the benefits of free and open competition.

Will reject a proposal for award if it determines that the Bidder recommended for award has engaged in
corrupt or fraudulent practices in competing for the contract in question.

Will blacklist / or debar a firm, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time, if at any time determines that

the firm has engaged in corrupt or fraudulent practices in competing for, or in executing a Government
Contract

Furthermore. Bidders shall be aware of the provisions stated in the General Conditions of Contract.

J{_ Cl

CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 19 ---
 

FORMS OF BID

OLALIFICATION INFORMATION

CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 20 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents tor | lectrical Works

QUALIFICATION INFORMATION

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

  

Page | 20

 

  

 

  
 

 

   

 

  

 

   

 

 

nexure —
si. Description Submitted
No. |
y i 2 3
| Copies of documents relating to the Registration of the firm, Registration as Civil “| Yes/No
Bidder, Partnership deed, Articles of Association
| 2 Copy of Professional Tax clearance certificate at Yes / No
' 3) Copy of GST registration certificate Yes/No
4 | Copy of vatid license regarding engagement of workers in the contract works Yes/No
from Labour Department, Government of Tripura

 

Downloaded DNleT as a proof of acceptance of all terms conditions in the DNIeT.

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
   

Yes/No

 

 

6 Availability of eritical equipment in Statement -I
- +—— . aye “or *
7 Availability of Key personnel in Statement-Il
— — $$$ —__—— aie
8 Litigation history in Statement III
9 | The particulars of quality control testing Lab owned. OR tie up with established

quality control testing laboratories (Statement-1V)

Yes/No
Yes/No

  
 

 

Declaration of the Bidder as per Annexure-H]

 

——

 

Undertaking as per Annexure-IIl

 

Bank solvency

 

4 =
Performance Bank Guarantee

 

“| Schedule-A

+

   
   
  
 

Yes/No

Yes / No

 

 

Is | Corrigendum, if any
16

Experience certificate from Clint regarding successfully completion of similar
| nature of the work mentioned in the bid document

 

 

    

Yes / No

 

Signature of the Bidder

CONTRACTOR

g

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 21 ---
| 21

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Annexure-I

DECLARATION

i MAN epee eae Koncie naa hs <OhAs hewn seats e dord¥emeneeencnaescenneconppspnennaunneuiiinn easit areacsa ey PeGREReaikss have gone

through carefully all the Bid conditions and solemnly declare that [| / we will abide by any penal action such as
disqualification or black listing or termination of contract or any other action deemed fit, taken by, the Department against
us. Hit ts found that the statements, documents, certificates produced by us are false / fabricated

| / we hereby declare that, | / We have not been blacklisted / debarred / Suspended / demoted in any department

{ re  P +1
| rindiny S f lndia due to any reasons

Signature of the Bidder

 

CONTRACTOR 7
ish R For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 22 ---
Page |22
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

STATEMENT —1

 

Availability of Critical Equipment

‘The bidder should furnish the information required below, regarding the availability of the equipment, required for
construction / quality control,

TE [ : |
| Sy, , ; . Number ey
No Details of Equipment required ed er 5
> Owned lo be procured

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

2 3
|
= |
Signature of the Bidder
DECLARATION
“We vcoesee.do hereby solemnly

Hirm and declare that 1 we own the following equipment for using on the subject work and also declare that | / We will
abide by any action such as disqualification or determination of Contract or blacklisting or any action deemed fit, if the
department detects at any stage that I/we do not possess the equipment listed below. S

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SL. al. eck Year of Reg. salman Any other | Is itin working
| No. Details of cach Equipment purchase | Number | Capecy data. condition
i | 2 i = | | 5 6 7
T t "
L
Signature of the Bidder

AG)

/ —* Sh

INTR pa
CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 23 ---
| 23

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

STATEMENT —
Availability of Key Personnel

Qualification and experience of Key Personnel proposed to be deployed for execution of the Contract.
. |

 

 

‘Si. - 5. ne Total Working with the
No Name Designation Qualification Experience Didier etice,
2 3 4 5 6

| |
ee |

 

 

 

 

Signature of the Bidder

ONTRACTO . ‘
For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 24 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

STATEMENT —HI

 

Information on litigation history in which Bidder is the Petitioner.

 

    

Si. | Case No./ | Courtwhere | Subject Matter / Prayer | Respondents i.e., SE

| No Year filed. in the case. /CE Present Stage.

 

ro 2 | 2 4 5
|

 

 

 

 

 

Signature of the Bidder

M_ 2

ee nn For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 25 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

The particulars of quality control testing Lab owned, OR tie up with established quality control testing laboratories
(applicable in case of work costing more than 40,00 lakh(fifty lakh).

Si. Whether |

 

Ni Name of the Lab owned/ Details of Equipment/ Instruments of the Lab
) .
tie-up
aie’ st — | = 1 —_ |
I 2 3 4

 

Signature of the Bidder

AG ft

ff

(O14 ‘
AVL ‘

a

Pe

CONTRACTOR Beni
. For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 26 ---
Pave |26

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Annexure-Ill

CPWD Form — 7/8
Percentage Rate E-Tender & Contract for Works
Dales wancesene weaiur
To,

The Registrar
NIT Agartala

Sir,
| / We do hereby bid and if this bid be accepted, under take to execute the following work viz (Supply and

installation of electrification works in the Reaction Engg. lab (CRF-301) under DST sponsored research project of Bio-
Engineering Deptt. at NIT Agartala..)

A. E-Tender for the work of :-

(i) Supply and installation of electrification works in the Reaction Engg. lab (CRF-301) under DST sponsored
reseurch project of Bio- Engineering Deptt. at NIT Agartala.

(ii) To be uploaded by .........2..1MOUPS OM ssersesreeseennes at hutp//eprocure.gov.in
(iii) To be opened in presence of e-Tenderers who may be present at... Hours ONsvvegieereeein the office
E-TENDER

We have read and examined the notice inviting e-Tender. schedule, A. B, C, D, E & Specifications applicable, Drawings &
Desivns. General Rules and Directions, Canditions of Contract, clauses of contract, Special conditions, Schedule of Rate &
other documents and Rules referred to in the conditions of contract and all other contents in the e-Tender document for the
work lor

a. For percentage Rate Contract (CPWD Form-7), 1 / We undertake to execute the work at the same rate as filled up
/quoted online by me/us in Bill of Quantity (in downloaded macro enabled MS-Excel Sheet) of the same bid as
referred to “General Rules & Direction” of this e-Tender document. in addition, the total amount as computed in
macro enabled MS-Excel Sheet through online would be the quoted offered amount by me/us for the same bid as
referred above.

bh bor Percentage rate Contract (CPWD Form-8), | / We undertake to execute the work at the same Percentage rate as
filled up /quoted online by me/us for each item in Bill of Quantity (in downloaded macro enabled MS-Excel Sheet)
of the same bid as referred to “General Rules & Direction” of this e-Tender document. In addition, the total amount
as computed in macro enabled MS-Excel Sheet through online would be the quoted offered amount by me/us for
the same bid as referred above.

jstrike out as the ease may be]

VWe hereby e-Tender for the execution of the work specified for the NIJ Agartala within the time specified in Schedule *F”
viz. schedule of quantities and in accordance in all respect with the specifications, designs, drawing and instructions in
writing referred to in Rule-1 of General Rules and Directions and in Clause 11 of the Conditions of contract and with such

nuierials us are provided for. hy, and in respect of accordance with. such conditions so far as applicable.

I/We agree to keep the e-Tender open for one hundred and eighty (180) days from the due date of its opening and not to
make any modification in its terms and conditions.

MCRORLIBE .. cuesy sens teevseenst is hereby forwarded in deposit at call receipt of a scheduled bank/ demand draft of a scheduled
bank/bank guarantee issued by a scheduled bank as eamest money.

ve ae dr

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 27 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

A copy of earnest money in deposit at call receipt of a scheduled bank /demand draft of a scheduled bank/bank guarantee
issued by a scheduled bank is scanned and uploaded(strike out as the case may be). If I/We, fail to furnish the prescribed
performance guarantee within prescribed period. I/We agree that the said NIT Agartala or his successors, in office shall
without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit the said earnest money absolutely. Further, if I/We fail
fo commence work as specified, lf We agree that NIT Agartala or the successors in office shall without prejudice to any other
right or remedy available in law, be at liberty to forfeit the said performance guarantee absolutely. The said Performance
Cuurantee shall be a guarantee to execute all the works referred to in the e-Tender documents upon the terms and conditions
contained or referred to those in excess of that limit at the rates to be determined in accordance with the provision contained
in Clause 12:2 and 12.3 of the e-Tender form.

Further. 1/We agree that in case of forfeiture of Earnest Money or Performance Guarantee as aforesaid. I/We shall be
debarred for participation in the re-Tendering process of the work,

I/We undertake and confirm that eligible similar work(s) has/have not been got executed through another contractor on back
to back basis. Further that, if such a violation comes to the notice of Department, then I/We shall be debarred for e-Tendering
in NIT Agartala in future forever. Also. if such a violation comes to the notice of Department before date of start of work, the
Toginver-in-Charge shall be free to forfeit the entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit/Performance Guarantee,

I/We hereby declare that l’We shall treat the e-Tender documents drawings and other records connected with the work as
seerel/ confidential documents and shall not communicate information/derived there from to any person other than a person to
whom [/We am/are authorized to communicate the same or use the information in any manner prejudicial to the safety of the
Slate.

UNDERTAKING OF THE BIDDER.
i PW hive not been black listed in any department in Tripura due to any reasons.

2) VWE have not been demoted to the next lower category for not filing the bids after buying the bid schedules ina
whole year and my/our registration has not been cancelled for a similar default in two consecutive years.

3) I/WE agree to disqualify me/us for any wrong declaration in respect of the above and to sumnfarily reject my/our
bid.

Address of the Bidder ;

Phone Sa:

Note: If an individual! makes the bid, it shall be digitally signed by him/her and the undertaking shall also be signed with
his/her full name and his/her address, Ifa firm makes the bid, a member of the firm shall digitally sign it and the undertaking
shall be signed with the co-partnership name by the same member of the firm, who shall also sign his/her own name, and the
name and address of each member of the firm shall be given. If the bid is made by a corporation, it shall be digitally signed
by a duly authorized officer and the undertaking shall also be signed by the same duly authorized officer who shall produce
with his/her bid satisfactory evidence of his/her authorization. Such corporation submitting bids may be required to furnish
evidence of its corporate existence. before the contract is executed

Dated
Signature of Contractor
Witness:
Postal Address & Mobile No:
\dhdines

Occupation

Cc

Pa : gl

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 28 ---
ave [28

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

ACCEPTANCE

The above e-Tender (as modified by you as provided in the letters mentioned hereunder) is accepted by me for and on behalf
of NIT Agartala for a sum of

(Rupees

lhe letters referred to below shall form part of this contract agreement: -

(a)
(b)
(c)
For & on behalf of NIT Agartala,
SigMature. .......c0cceeee cess et eeeeeeeeoeen arene ‘A
Desigmation.......0...00seceesesecseeeesaneenenes
Dated

 

CONTRACTOR : . a
For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 29 ---
Page |29

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

General Rules
& Directions

Applicuble for
Hem Rate

b+ Tender onls

(CPWD-8)

Applicable tor
Percentage Rate
E-Tender only
(CPWD-7)

CONTRACTOR

All work proposed for execution by contract will be notified in a form of invitation to e-Tender
pasted by publication in News papers or posted on website as the case may be.This form will state
the work to be carried out, as well as the date for submitting and opening e-Tender and the time
allowed for carrying out the work. also the amount of earnest money to be deposited with the e-
lender, and the amount of the security deposit and Performance guarantee to be deposited by the
successful e-Tenderer and the percentage. if any, to be deducted from bills. Copies of the
specifications, designs and drawings and any other documents required in connection with the
work signed for the purpose of identification by the officer inviting e-Tender shall also be open
for inspection by the contractor at the office of officer invitin 2 e-Tender during office hours.

In the event of e-Tender being submitted by a firm, it must be signed separately by each partner
thereof or in the event of the absence of any partner, it must be signed on his behalf by a person
holding a power of attorney authorizing him to do so, such power of attorney to be produced with

the e- Tender. and it must disclose that the firm is duly registered under the Indian Partnership Act
19352,

3. Receipts for payment made on account of work, when executed by a firm, must also be signed by all
the partners. except where contractors are described in their e-Tender as a firm, in which case the
receipts must be signed in the name of the firm by one of the partners, or by some other person having
due authority to give effectual receipts for the firm.

1. The rate(s) must be quoted in decimal coinage. Amounts must be quoted in full rupees by
ignoring fifty paisa and considering more than fifty paisa as rupee one.
In case the lowest e-Tendered amount (worked out on the basis of quoted rate of Individual items)
OF wo Or more contractors is same, then such lowest contractors may be asked to submit sealed
revised offer quoting rate oF each item of the schedule of quantity for all sub sections/sub heads as
the case may be, but the revised quoted rate of each item of schedule of quantity for all sub
sections/sub heads should not be higher than their respective original rate quoted already at the
time of submission of e-Tender. The lowest e-Tender shall be decided on the basis of revised
offer.
If the revised e-Tendered amount (worked out on the basis of quoted rate of individual items) of
‘wo of more contractors received in revised offer is again found to be equal, then the lowest e-
lender. arnong such contractors, shall be decided by draw of lots in the presence of SE of the
circle, or CE of the zone EE(s) in-charge of major & minor component(s) (also DDH in case
Horticulture work is also included in the e-Tender). and the lowest contractors those have quoted
equal amount of their e- bender
In case of any such lowest contractor in his revised offer quotes rate of any item more than their
respective original rate quoted already at the time of submission of e-Tender, then such revised
offer shall be treated invalid. Such case of revised offer of the lowest contractor or case of refusal
to submit revised offer by the lowest contractor shall be treated as withdrawal of his e-Tender
before acceptance and 50% of his earnest money shall be forfeited,
In case all the lowest contractors those have same e-Tendered amount (as a result of their quoted
rate of individual items). refuse to submit revised offers, then e-Tender are to be recalled after
forfeiting 50% of EMD of each lowest contractors.
Lomtrictor. whose earnest money is forteited because of non-submission of revised offer, or
quoting higher revised rate(s) of any item(s) than their respective original rate quoted already at
the time of submission of his bid shall not be allowed to participate in the ree-Tendering process
of the work
4A. In case of Percentage Rate E-Tender, contractor shall fill up the usual printed form, stating at
what percentage below/above (in figures as well as in words) the total estimated cost given in
Schedule of Quantities at Schedule-A, he will be willing to execute the work. The e-Tender
submitted shall be treated as invalid if :-
I. The contractor does not quote percentage above/below on the total amount of e-Tender
or any section/sub head of the e-Tender

\ [he percentage above/below is not quoted in figures & words both on the total amount
of e- Tender er any section/sub head of the e-Tender,

Ul The percentage quoted above/below is different in figures & words on the total amount
of e-Tender or any section/sub head of the e-Tender.

E-Tender, which propose any alteration in the work specified in

the said ie 10 &»
Ms / gh
¥ pak, \

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

f


--- Page 30 ---
Page |30

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

CONTRACTOR

Tender, or in the time allowed for carrying out the work, or which contain any other conditions of
any sort including conditional rebates, will be summarily rejected

4B. In case the lowest e-Tendered amount (estimated cost + amount worked on the basis of
percentage above/below) of two or more contractors is same, such lowest contractors will be
asked to submit sealed revised offer in the form of letter mentioning percentage above/ below on
estimated cost of e-Tender including all sub sections/sub heads as the case may be, but the revised
percentage quoted above/below on €-Tendered cost or on each sub section/ sub head should not be
higher than the percentage quoted at the time of submission of e-Tender. The lowest e-Tender
shall be decided on the basis of revised offers.

In case any of such contractor refuses to submit revised offer, then it shall be treated as
withdrawal of his e-Tender before acceptance and 50% of earnest money shall be forfeited.

If the revised e-Tendered amount of two more contractors received in revised offer is again found
to be equal, the lowest e-Tender, among such contractors, shall be decided by draw of lots in the
presence of SE of the circle, or CE of the zone EE(s) in-charge of major & minor component(s)
(also DDH in case Horticulture work is also included in the e-Tender), & the lowest contractors
those have quoted equal amount of their e- Tender

In case all the lowest contractors those have quoted same e-Tendered amount, refuse to submit
revised offers, then e-Tender are to be recalled after forfeiting 50% of EMD of each contractor.
Contractor(s), whose eamest money is forfeited because of non submission of revised offer, shall
not be allowed to participate in the re-Tendering process of the work.

5. The officer inviting e-Tender or his duly authorized assistant. will open e-Tender in the presence
of any intending contractors who may be present at the time.

6. The officer inviting ¢-Tender shall have the right of rejecting all or any of the e-Tender and will
not be bound to accept the lowest or any other e-Tender.

7 {he receipt ofan accountant or clerk for any money paid by the contractor will not be
considered as any acknowledgment or payment to the officer inviting e-Tender and the contractor
shall be responsible for seeing that he procures a receipt signed by the officer inviting e-Tender or a
duly authorized Cashier

J

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 31 ---
 

Page |31

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Applicable for 8. In the case of lem Rate E-Tender. only rates quoted shall be considered. Any e-Tender containing
livin Rate percentage below/above the rates quoted is liable to be rejected, Rates quoted by the contractor in item
f- Tender only rate ¢- Tender in figures and words shall be accurately filled in-so that there is ino discrepancy in the rates
CEN OS) written in figures and words. However. if a discrepancy is found, the rates which correspond with the
amount worked out by the contractor shall unless otherwise proved be taken as correct. If the amount of
an item is not worked out by the contractor or it does not correspond with the rates written either in
figures or in words. then the rates quoted by the contractor in words shall be taken as correct. Where the
rates quoted by the contractor in figures and in words tally, but the amount is not worked out correctly,
the rates quoted by the contractor will unless otherwise proved be taken as correct and not the amount.
I) event no rate has been quoted for any item(s), leaving space both in figure(s), word(s), and amount
blank. it will be presumed that the contractor has included the cost of this/these item(s) in other items
and rate lor such item(s) will be considered as zero and work will be required to be executed
accordingly.

However, ifa e-Tenderer quotes nil rates against each item in item rate e-Tender, the e-Tender shall
be treated as invalid and will not be considered as lowest e-Tenderer and earnest money deposited
shall be forfeited.

9. In case of Percentage Rate E-Tender only percentage quoted shall be considered, Any e-Tender
containing item rates is liable to be rejected, Percentage quoted by the contractor in percentage
rate e- Tender shall be accurately filled in figures and words, so that there is no discrepancy.

10. In Percentage Rate E- Tender, the e-Tenderer shall quote percentage below/above (in figures as well
as in words) at which he will be willing to execute the work. He shall also work out the total
amount of his offer and the same should be written in figures as well as in words in such a way

percentage rate that no interpolation is possible. In case of figures, the word ‘Rs.” should be written before the

only (CPWD-7) figure of rupees and word *P" after the decimal figures, e.g, ‘Rs, 2.15P and in case of words, the
word “Rupees” should precede and the word ‘Paisa’ should be written at the end,

11. (i) The Contractor whose e-Tender is accepted, will be required to furnish performance Guarantee of
3% (Five Percent) of the e-Tendered amount within the period specified in Schedule F. This
guarantee shall be in the form of Government Securities or Fixed Deposit Receipts or Guarantee
Bonds of any Scheduled Bank ’

(ii) The contractor whose e-Tender is accepted will also be required to furnish by way of Security
Deposit for the fulfillment of his contract, an amount equal to 2.5% of the e-Tendered value of the
work. The Security deposit will be collected by deductions from the running bills as well as final
bill of the contractor at the rates mentioned above, The Security amount will also be accepted in
cash or in the shape of Government Securities. Fixed Deposit Receipt of a Scheduled Bank or will
also be accepted for this purpose provided confirmatory advice is enclosed.

12. On acceptance of the e-Tender, the name of the accredited representative(s) of the contractor who
would be responsible for taking instructions from the Engineer-in-Charge shall be communicated
in writing to the Engineer-in-Charge.

13. GST or any other tax applicable in respect of inputs procured by the contractor for this contract shall
be payable by the Contractor and Government will not entertain any claim whatsoever in respect
ol the same. However, component of GST at time of supply of service (as provided in CGST Act
20:17) provided by the contract shall be varied if different from that applicable on the last date of
receipt of e- Tender including extension if any,

I4. The e-Tender for composite work includes, in addition to building work, all other works such as
sanitary and water supply installations drainage installation, electrical work, horticulture work,
roads and paths etc.

6 The contractor shall submit list of works which are in hand (progress) in the following form

Applicable tor

 

 

Name and
particulars of
Division where
work is being

executed

Value Position of
of works in
work progress

 
 
   

4

tod

 

 

 

 

 

/s4__ \ q-

CORA TSAR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 32 ---
| 32

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT

CONTRACTOR bof
7 For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 33 ---
 

Dane [33

Stundard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT

Definitions | The Contract means the documents forming the e-Tender and acceptance thereof and the
formal agreement executed between the competent authority on behalf of the President of
India and the Contractor, together with the documents referred to therein including these
conditions, the specifications, designs, drawings and instructions issued from time to time
by the Engineer-in- Charge and all these documents taken together, shall be deemed to form
one contract and shall be complementary to one another.

2. In the contract, the following expressions shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have
the meanings, hereby respectively assigned to them:-

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

(vill)

(in)

(x)

(xi)

(xii)

CONTRACTOR

‘The expression works or work shall, unless there be something either in the subject
OF CONLENL repugnant to such construction, be construed and taken to mean the
works by or by virtue of the contract contracted to be executed whether temporary
or permanent, and whether original, altered, substituted or additional.

The Site shall mean the land, places on, into or or where work is to be executed
under the contract or any adjacent land, path or street or where work is to be
executed under the contract or any adjacent land, path or street which may be
temporally allotted or used for the purpose of carrying out the contract.

The Contractor shall mean the individual, firm or company, whether incorporated
or not, undertaking the works and shall include the legal personal representative of
such individual or the persons composing such firm or company, or the successors
of such firm or company and the permitted assignees of such individual, firm or
company

The President means the President of India and his successors.

The Engineer-in-charge means the Engineer Officer who shall supervise and be in
charge of the work and who shall sign the contract on behalf oF the President of
India as mentioned in Schedule 'F' hereunder .

Accepting Authority shall mean the authority mentioned in Schedule 'F

Excepted Risk are risks due to riots (other than those on account of contractor's
employees), war (whether declared or not) invasion, act of foreign enemies,
hostilities. civil war, rebellion revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power,
any acts of Government, damages from aircraft, acts of God, such as earthquake,
lightening and unprecedented floods. and other causes over which the contractor
has no control and accepted as such by the Accepting Authority or causes solely
duc to use or occupation by Government of the part of the works in respect of
which a certificate of completion has been issued or a cause solely due to
Government's faulty design of works.

Market Rate shall be the rate as decided by the Engineer-in-Charge on the basis of
the cost of materials and labour at the site where the work is to be executed plus the
percentage mentioned in Schedule ‘F’ to cover, all overheads and profits.

Provided that no extra overheads and profits shall be payable on the part(s) of work
assigned to other ageney(s) by the contractor as per terms of contract.

Schedule(s) referred to in these conditions shall mean the relevant schedule(s)
annexed to the e-Tender documents or the standard Schedule of Rates of the
government mentioned in Schedule 'F’ hereunder, with the amendments thereto
issued upto the date of receipt of the e-Tender.

Department means NIT Agartala or any department of Government of India which
invites e- Tender on behalf of President of India as specified in schedule 'F'.

District Specifications means the specifications followed by the State Government
in the area where the work is to be executed.

E-Tendered value means the value of the entire work as stipulated in the letter of
award.

Date of commencement of work; The date of commencement of work shall be the
date Of start as specified in schedule 'F' or the first date of handing over of the site,
whichever is later, in accordance with the phasing if any, as indicated in the e-
lender document. \

Jo ”

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 34 ---
Page |34

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Scope and
Performance

Works to be carried
out

Sufficiency of k-
Tender

Siening of Contract

CONTRACTOR

el

a

6.

(xiii) GST shall mean Goods and Service Tax - Central, State and Inter State.

Where the context so requires, words imparting the singular only also include the plural and
vice versa. Any reference to masculine gender shall whenever required include feminine
gender and vice versa.

Headings and Marginal notes to these General Conditions of Contract shall not be deemed
to form part thereof or be taken into consideration in the interpretation or construction
thereof or of the contract.

The contractor shall be furnished, free of cost one certified copy of the contract documents
except standard specifications, Schedule of Rates and such other printed and published
documents, together with all drawings as may be forming part of the e-Tender documents.
None of these documents shall be used for any purpose other than that of this contract.

The work to be carried out under the Contract shall, except as otherwise provided in these
conditions. include all labourers, materials, tools, plants, equipment and transport which
may be required in preparation of and for and in the full and entire execution and
completion of the works. The descriptions given in the Schedule of Quantities (Schedule-
A) shall, unless otherwise stated, be held to include wastage on materials, carriage and
cartage. carrying and return of empties, hoisting, setting, fitting and fixing in position and
all other labours necessary in and for the full and entire execution and completion of the
work as aforesaid in accordance with good practice and recognized principles.

rhe Contractor shall be deemed to have satisfied himself before e-Tendering as to the
correctness and sufficiency of his e-Tender for the works and of the rates and prices quoted
in the Schedule of Quantities, which rates and prices shall, except as otherwise provided,
cover all his obligations under the Contract and all matters and things necessary for the
proper completion and maintenance of the works.

The successful e-Tenderer/contractor, on acceptance of his e-Tender by the Accepting
Authority, shall, within 15 days from the stipulated date of start of the work, sign the
contract consisting of:-

(i) the notice inviting e-Tender. all the documents including drawings, if any, forming
the e-Tender as issued at the time of invitation of e-Tender and acceptance thereof
together with any correspondence leading thereto.

(ii) Standard C_P.W.D. Form as mentioned in Schedule 'F' consisting of:

a) Various standard clauses with corrections up to the date stipulated in
Schedule 'F’ along with annexures thereto.

b) C.P.W.D. Safety Code.

¢) Model Rules for the protection of health, sanitary arrangements for workers
employed by CPWD or its contractors.

d) CPWD Contractor's Labour Regulations.

e) List of Acts and omissions for which fines can be imposed.

f Unless otherwise mentioned latest CPWD works Manual, General

Condition of Contract (GCC), GFR and Manual for Procurement shall
be followed for settlement of any issues.

(iii) No payment for the work done will be made unless contract is signed by the
contractor.

fU__ Se

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 35 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Performance
Cuarantee

Recovery of Security
Deposit

CONTRACTOR

CLAUSES OF CONTRACT
Clause |

(i) The contractor shall submit an irrevocable Performance Guarantee of 5% (Five percent) of
the e-Tendered amount in addition to other deposits mentioned elsewhere in the contract for
his proper performance of the contract agreement, (not withstanding and/or without
prejudice to any other provisions in the contract) within period specified in Schedule 'F'
Irom the date of issue of leer of acceptance. This period can be further extended by the
Engineer-in-Charge up to a maximum period as specified in schedule 'F' on written request
of the contractor stating the reason for delays in procuring the Performance Guarantee, to
the satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge. This guarantee shall be in the form of Deposit at
Call receipt of any scheduled bank/Banker’s Cheque of any scheduled bank/Demand Draft
of any scheduled bank/Pay Order of any scheduled bank . Government Securities or Fixed
Deposit Receipts or Guarantee Bonds of any Scheduled Bank or the State Bank of India in
accordance with the form annexed hereto. In case a fixed deposit receipt of any Bank is
furnished by the contractor to the Government as part of the performance guarantee and the
Bank is unable to make payment against the said fixed deposit receipt, the loss caused
thereby shall fall on the contractor and the contractor shall forthwith on demand furnish
additional security to the Government to make good the deficit.

(ii) The Performance Guarantee shall be initially valid up to the stipulated date of completion
plus minimum 60 days beyond that. if the same is submitted by the agency on schedule
format | as per GCC. If the same is submitted on the format II as per GCC then the
performance Guarantee shall be valid up to the stipulated date of completion plus minimum
6 months beyond that. In case the time for conypletion of work gets enlarged, the contractor
shall get the validity of Performance Guarantee extended to cover such enlarged time for
completion of work, Afier recording of the completion certificate for the work by the
competent authority. the performance guarantee shall be returned to the contractor, without
any interest, However, in case of contracts involving maintenance of building and
services/any other work after construction of same building and services/ other work, then
50% of Performance Guarantee shall be retained as Security Deposit. The same shall be
returned year wise proportionately.

(iii) The Engineer-in-Charge shall not make a claim under the performance guarantee except for
amounts to which the President of India is entitled under the contract (not withstanding
and/or without prejudice to any other provisions in the contract agreement) in the event of:

(a) Failure by the contractor to extend the validity of the Performance Guarantee as
described herein above. in which event the Engineer-in-Charge may claim the full
amount of the Pertormanee Guarantee.

(b) Failure by the contractor to pay President of India any amount due, either as agreed
by the contractor or determined under any of the Clauses/Conditions of the
agreement, within 30 days of the service of notice to this effect by Engineer-in-
Charge:

(iv) In the event of the contract being determined or rescinded under provision of any of the
Clause/Condition of the agreement, the performance guarantee shall stand forfeited in full
and shall be absolutely at the disposal of the President of India.

Clause 1A

The person/persons whose ¢-Tender(s) may be accepted (hereinafter called the contractor) shall
permit Government at the time of making any payment to him for work done under the contract to
deduct a sum at the rate of 5% of the gross amount of each running and final bill till the sum
deducted will amount to security. deposit of 5% of the e-Tendered value of the work. Such
deductions will be made and held by Government by way of Security Deposit unless he/they
has/have deposited the amount of Security at the rate mentioned above in cash or in the form of
Government Securities or fixed deposit receipts. In case a fixed deposit receipt of any Bank is
lurnished by the contractor to the Government as part of the security deposit and the Bank is unable
fo make payment against the said fixed deposit receipt, the loss caused thereby shall fall on the
contractor and the contractor shall forthwith on demand furnish additional security to the
Government to make good the deficit.

All compensations or the other sums of money payable by the contractor under the terms of this
contract may be deducted from, or paid by the sale of a sufficient part of his security deposit or
from the interest arising there from, or from any sums which may be due to or may become due to
the contractor by Government on any account whatsoever and in the event of his Security Deposit
being reduced by reason of any such deductions or sale as aforesaid, the contrac shall within 10

Px ,

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

   


--- Page 36 ---
Page |36

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Compensation for
Delay

CONTRACTOR

days make good in cash or fixed deposit receipt ¢-Tendered by the State Bank of India or by
Scheduled Bunks or Government Securities (if deposited for more than 12 months) endorsed in
fuveur of the Engineer-in-Charge. any sum or sums which may have been deducted from, or raised
by sale of his security deposit or any part thereof, The security deposit shall be collected from the
running bills and the final bill of the contractor at the rates mentioned above.

The security deposit as deducted above can be released against bank guarantee issued by a
scheduled bank, on its accumulations to a minimum of Rs. 5 lac subject to the condition that
amount of such bank guarantee, except last one, shall not be less than Rs. 5 lac. Provided further
that the validity of bank guarantee including the one given against the earnest money shall be in
conformity with provisions contained in clause 17 which shall be extended from time to time
depending upon extension of contract granted under provisions of clause 2 and clause 5.

In case of contracts invelving maintenance of building and services/any other work after
construction of same building and services/other work, then 50% of Performance Guarantee shall
be retained as Security Deposit. The same shall be returned year wise proportionately.

Note-1: Government papers e-Tendered as security will be taken at $% (five per cent) below its
market price or at its face value, whichever is less. The market price of Government paper would
be ascertained by the Divisional Officer at the time of collection of interest and the amount of
interest to the extent of deficiency in value of the Government paper will be withheld if necessary.

Note-2: Government Securities will include all forms of Securities mentioned in Rule No. 274 of
ihe GF. Rules except fidelity bond. This will be subject to the observance of the condition
mentioned under the rule against each form of security.

Note-3: Note | & 2 above shall be applicable for both clause | and 1A

Clause 2

If the contractor fails to maintain the required progress in terms of clause 5 or to complete the work
and clear the site on or before the contract or justified extended date of completion as per clause 5
(excluding any extension under Clause 5.5) as well as any extension granted under clauses 12 and
15. he shall, without prejudice to any other right or remedy available under the law to the
Government on account of such breach, pay as compensation the amount calculated at the rates
stipulated below as the authority specified in schedule 'F’ may decide on the amount of accepted B-
Tendered Value of the work for every completed day/month (as determined) that the progress
remains below that specified in Clause 5 or that the work remains incomplete.

Compensation for delay of work

(i) With maximum rate 1% (one percent) maximum per month of delay to be computed on
per day basis based on quantum of damage suffered due to stated delay on the part of
Contractor, if scheduled completion of work is more than one year

(il) With maximum rate 1% (one percent) to 2% (two percent) (maximum) per month of
delay to be computed on per day basis based on quantum of damage suffered due to
stated delay on the part of Contractor. if scheduled completion of work is more than six
months and upto one year

(iii) With maximum rate 2% (two percent) to 5% (five percent) (maximum) per month of
delay to be computed on per day basis based on quantum of damage suffered due to
stated delay on the part of Contractor. if scheduled completion of work is up to Six
months

Provided always that the total amount of compensation for delay to be paid under this condition
shall not exceed 10 % of the accepted E-Tendered Value of work. In case no compensation has
been decided by the authority in Schedule 'F during the progress of work, this shall be no waiver of
rivht to levy compensation by the said authority if the work remains incomplete on final justified
extended date of completion. If the Engineer in Charge decides to give further extension of time
allowing performance of work beyond the justi fied extended date, the contractor shall be liable to
pay compensation for such extended period. If any variation in amount of contract takes place
during such extended period beyond justified extended date and the contractor becomes entitled to
additional time under clause 12, the net period for such variation shall be accounted for while
deciding the period for levy of compensation. However, during such further extended period
beyond the justified extended period, if any delay occurs by events under sub clause 5.2, the
contractor shall be liable to pay compensation for such delay.

Phis is without prejudice to right of action by the Engineer in Charge under clause 3 for delay in
performance and claim of compensation under that clause.

In case action under clause 2 has not been finalized and the work has been determined under clause
3, the right of action under this clause shall remain post determination of contract but levy of

My gh

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 37 ---
Page |37

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Compensation for
Delay

CONTRACTOR

compensation shall be for days the progress is behind the schedule on date of determination. as
assessed by the authority in Schedule F. after due consideration of justified extension. The
compensation for delay, if not decided betore the determination of contract, shall be decided after
of determination of contract.

The amount of compensation may be adjusted or set-off against any sum payable to the Contractor
under this or any other contract with the Government. In case, the contractor does not achieve a
particular milestone mentioned in schedule F, or the re-scheduled milestone(s) in terms of Clause
5.4. the amount shown against that milestone shall be withheld, to be adjusted against the
compensation levied as above. With-holding of this amount on failure to achieve a milestone, shall
be aulonvitic without any notice to the contractor. However, if the contractor catches up with the
progress ol work on the subsequent milestone(s), the withheld amount shall be released. In case the
contractor fails to make up for the delay in subsequent milestone(s), amount mentioned against
each milestone missed subsequently also shall be withheld. However, no interest, whatsoever, shall
be payable on such withheld amount.

Clause 2A
For Maintenance Works estimated cost upto Rs. 25 Lacs

Ifthe contractor fails to maintain the required progress to complete the work and clear the site on or
betore the contract period he shall. without prejudice to any other right or remedy available under
the law to the Government on account of such breach, pay as compensation the amount calculated
at the rates stipulated below as the authority specified in schedule "F' may decide on the amount of
accepted E-Tendered Value of the work for every completed day/ month (as determined) that the
work remains incomplete in the following manners,

(i) If there is no hindrance, compensation shall be levied if work is incomplete.
(ii) If site is not available there will be no compensation,
(iin) If there is partial hindrance then engineer- in - charge will compare amount of work

executed in available hindrance free time w.r.t. total time and total work. Compensation
will be levied ifaetual work executed is less than as calculated on pro rata basis,

Compensation for delay of work

(i) With maximum rate 1% (one percent) per month of delay to be computed on per
day basis based on quantum of damage suffered due to stated delay on the part of
Contractor. if scheduled completion of work is more than one year.

(ii) With rate 1% (one percent) to 2% (two percent) (maximum) per month of delay
to he computed on per day basis based on quantum of damage suffered due to
stated delay on the part of Contractor. if scheduled completion of work is more
than six month and up to one year

(iii) With rate 2% (two percent) to 5% (five percent) (maximum) per month of delay
to be computed on per day basis based on quantum of damage suffered due to
stated delay on the part of Contractor. if scheduled completion of work is up to
six month.

Provided always that the total amount of compensation for delay to be paid under this condition
shall not exceed 10 % of the accepted E-Tendered Value of work In case no compensation has been
decided by the authority in Schedule 'F' during the progress of work, this shall be no waiver of right
ty levy Compensation by the said authority if the work remains incomplete on stipulated date of
completion

This is without prejudice to right of action by the Engineer in Charge under clause 3 for delay in
performance and claim of compensation under that clause.

In case action under clause 2 has not been finalized and the work has been determined under clause
3, the right of action under this clause shall remain post determination of contract but levy of
compensation shall be for days the progress is behind the schedule on date of determination, as
assessed by the authority in Schedule P. The compensation for delay, if not decided before the
determination of contract. shall be decided after determination of contract.

[he amount of compensition may be adjusted or set-off against any sum payable to the Contractor
under this or any other contract with the Government,

 

fx Le

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 38 ---
Pa

»e [38

of

Standurd Single Bid Documents tor | lectrical Works

When Contract can Clause 3

be Determined

Subject to other provisions contained in this clause, the Engineer-in-Charge may, without prejudice
Ww any other rights or remedy against the contractor in respect of any delay, not following safety
norms inferior workmanship, any claims for damages and/or any other provisions of this contract
or otherwise, and whether the date of completion has or has not elapsed, by notice in writing
absolutely determine the contract in any of the following cases:

(i)

(il)

(iui)

(iw)

(v)

(vi)

(vil)

(viii)

(ix)

(xi)

CONTRACTOR

If the contractor having been given by the Engineer-in-Charge a notice in writing to
rectify, reconstruct or replace any defective work or that the work is being performed in
an inefficient or otherwise improper or un-workman like manner shall omit to comply
with the requirement of such notice fora period of seven days thereafter.

If the contractor has, without reasonable cause, suspended the progress of the work or has
failed to proceed with the work with due diligence and continues to do so after a notice in
writing of seven days from the E ngineer-in-Charge.

I! the contractor fails 10 complete the work or section of work with individual date of
completion on or before the stipulated or justified extended date, on or before such date of
completion; and the Engineer in Charge without any prejudice to any other right or
remedy under any other provision in the contract has given further reasonable time in a
notice given in writing in that behalf as either mutually agreed or in absence of such
mutual agreement by his own assessment making such time essence of contract and in the
opinion of Engineer-in-Charge the contractor will be unable to complete the same or does
not complete the same within the period specified.

If the contractor persistently neglects to carry out his obligations under the contract and/
or commits default in complying with any of the terms and conditions of the contract and
does not remedy it or take effective steps to remedy it within 7 days after a notice in
writing is given to him in that behalf by the Engineer-in-Charge.

If the contractor shall offer or give or agree to give to any person in Government service
or to any other person on his behalf any gift or consideration of any kind as an inducement
or reward for doing or forbearing to do or for having done or forborne to do any act in
relation to the obtaining or execution of this or any other contract for Government.

If the contractor shall enter into a contract with Government in connection with which
commission has been paid or agreed to be paid by him or to his knowledge, unless the
particulars of any such commission and the terms of payment thereof have been
previously disclosed in writing to the Engineer-in-Charge.

If the contractor had secured the contract with Government as a result of wrong ¢-
Tendering or other non-bonafide methods of competitive e-Tendering or commits breach
of Integrity Agreement.

if the contractor being an individual, or if a firm, any partner thereof shall at any time be
adjudged insolvent or have a receiving order or order for administration of his estate made
against him or shall take any proceedings for liquidation or composition (other than a
voluntary liquidation for the purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction) under any
Insolveney Act for the time being in force or make any conveyance or assignment of his
effects or composition or arrangement for the benefit of his creditors or purport so to do,
or if any application be made under any Insolvency Act for the time being in force for the
sequestration of his estate or if a trust deed be executed by him for benefit of his creditors.

If the contractor being a company shall pass a resolution or the court shall make an order
that the company shall be wound up or if a receiver or a manager on behalf of a creditor
shall be appointed-or if circumstances shall arise which entitle the court or the creditor to
appoint a receiver_or a manager or which entitle the court to make a winding up order.

if the contractor shall suffer an execution being levied on his goods and allow it to be
continued fora period of 21 days.

If the contractor assigns (excluding part(s) of work assigned to other agency(s) by the
contractor as per terms of contract), transfers, sublets (engagement of labour on a piece-
\work basis or of labour with materials not to be incorporated in the work, shall not be
deemed to be subletting) or otherwise parts with or attempts to assign, transfer, sublet or
otherwise parts with the entire works or any portion thereof without the prior written
approval of the Engineer -in-Charge. When the contractor has made himself liable for
action under any of the cases aforesaid, the Engineer-in-Charge on behalf of the President

of India shall have powers:
Jr ge

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 39 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Contractor binble tw
jay compensation
even if action not

taken under Clause 3

lime and Extension
for Delay

CONTRACTOR

(a) To determine the contract as aforesaid so far as performance of work by the
Contractor is concerned (of which determination notice in writing to the
contractor under the hand of the Engineer-in-Charge shall be conclusive
evidence). Upon such determination, Security Deposit already recovered,
Security Deposit, payable, Performance Guarantee under the contract shall be
liable to be forfeited and shall be absolutely at the disposal of the Government

(b) After giving notice to the contractor to measure up the work of the contractor
and to take such whole, or the balance or part thereof, as shall be un-executed
out of his hands and to give it to another contractor to complete the work. The
contractor, whose contract is determined as above, shall not be allowed to
participate in the e-Tendering process for the balance work.

ln the event of above courses being adopted by the Engineer-in-Charge, the
contractor shall have no claim to compensation for any loss sustained by him by
reasons of his having purchased or procured any materials or entered into any
engagements or made any advances on account or with a view to the execution
of the work or the performance of the contract. And in case action is taken under
any of the provision aforesaid, the contractor shall not be entitled to recover or
be paid any sum for any work thereof or actually performed under this contract
unless and until the Engineer-in-Charge has certified in writing the performance
of such work and the value payable in respect thereof and he shall only be
entitled to be paid the value so certified.

Clause 34

In case, the work cannot be started due to reasons not within the control of the contractor within
1/8th of the stipulated time for completion of work or one month whichever is higher, either party
may close the contract by giving notice to the other party stating the reasons. In such eventuality,
the Performance Guarantee of the contractor shall be refunded within 15 days Neither party shall
claim any compensation for such eventuality, This clause is not applicable for any breach of the
contract by either party.

Clause 4

In any case in which any of the powers conferred upon the Engineer-in-Charge by Clause-3
thereof, shall have become exercisable and the same are not exercised, the non-exercise thereof
shall not constitute a waiver of any of the conditions hereof and such powers shall notwithstanding
be exercisable in the event of any future case of default by the contractor and the liability of the
contractor for compensation shall remain unaffected. In the event of the Engineer-in-Charge
putting in force all or any of the powers vested in him under the preceding clause he may, if he so
desires after giving a notive in writing to the contractor, take possession of (or at the sole discretion
of the Engineer-in-Charge which shall be final and binding on the contractor) use as on hire (the
amount of the hire money being also in the final determination of the Engineer-in-Charge) all or
uity tools, plant. materials and stores. in or upan the works. or the site thereof belonging to the
contractor, or procured by the contractor and imtended to be used for the execution of the work/or
any part thereof. paying or allowing for the same in account at the contract rates, or, in the case of
these not being applicable, at current market rates to be certified by the Engineer-in-Charge, whose
certificate thereof shall be final, and binding on the contractor, clerk of the works, foreman or other
authorized agent to remove such tools. plant, materials, or stores from the premises (within a time
to be specified in such notice) in the event of the contractor failing to comply with any such
requisition, the Engineer-in-Charge may remove them at the contractor's expense or sell them by
auction or private sale on account of the contractor and his risk in all respects and the certificate of
the Engineer-in-Charge as to the expenses of any such removal and the amount of the proceeds and
expenses of any such sale shall be final and conelusive against the contractor,

Clause 4

The time allowed for execution of the Works as speeified in the Schedule 'F' or the extended time
in accordance with these conditions shall be the essence of the Contract. The execution of the work
shall commence from such time period as mentioned in schedule 'F' or from the date of handing
over of the site, notified by the Engineer-in-Charge, whichever is later. If the Contractor commits
default in commencing the execution of the work as aforesaid, the performance guarantee shall be
forfeited by the Engineer in Charge and shall be absolutely at the disposal of the Government
without prejudice to any other right or remedy available in law.

S| (i) As soon as possible but within 7 (seven) working days of award of work and in
consideration of

 

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 40 ---
Pave |40

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

CONTRACTOR

a
ai

5.4.

(a) Schedule of handing over of site as specified in the Schedule 'F’

(b) Schedule of issue of drawings if applicable as specified in the Schedule
ie
the Contractor shall submit a Time and Progress Chart for each mile
stone. The Engineer-in-Charge may within 7 (seven) working days
thereafter, if required modify, and communicate the program approved
to the contractor failing which the program submitted by the contractor
shall be deemed to be approved by the Engineer-in-Charge. The work
programme shall include all details of balance drawings and decisions
required to complete the contract with specific dates by which these
details are required by contractor without causing any delay in
execution of the work, The Chart shall be prepared in direct relation to
the time stated in the Contract documents for completion of items of the
works. It shall indicate the forecast of the dates of commencement and
completion of various trades of sections of the work and may be
amended as necessary by agreement between the Engineer-in-Charge
and the Contractor within the limitations of time imposed in the
Contract documents.

(ii) in case of non submission of work programme by the contractor the program
approved by the Engineer-in-Charge shall be deemed to be final,

(iii) The approval by the Engincer-in-Charge of such programme shall not relieve
the contractor of any of the obligations under the contract.

(iv) ‘The contractor shall submit the Time and Progress Chart and progress report
using the mutually agreed software or in other format decided by Engineer-in-
Charge for the work done during previous month to the Engineer-in-charge on
or before Sth day of each month failing which a recovery as per Schedule F to
be decided by the NIT approving authority shall be made on per week or part
basis in case of delay in submission of the monthly progress report

If the work(s) be delayed by:-

(i) force majeure, or

(ii) abnormally bad weather, or

(iii) serious loss or damage by fire, or

(iv) civil commotion, local commotion of workmen, strike or lockout, affecting any
of the trades employed on the work, or

(v) delay on the part of other contractors or tradesmen engaged by Engineer-in-
Charge in executing work not forming part of the Contract, or

(vi) any other cause like above which, in the reasoned opinion of the Engineer-in-
Charge is beyond the Contractor's control.

then upon the happening of any such event causing delay, the Contractor shall
immediately give notice thereof in writing to the Engineer-in-Charge but shall
nevertheless use constantly his best endeavours to prevent or make good the delay and
shall do all that may be reasonably required to the satisfaction of the Engineer-in-
Charge to proceed with the works.

The contractor shall have no claim of damages for extension of time granted or
rescheduling of milestone/s for events listed in sub clause 5.2.

In case the work’is hindered in the opinion of the contractor, by the Department for any
reason/event, for which the Department is responsible. The authority as indicated in
Schedule 'F’ shall, if justified, give a fair and reasonable extension of time and
reschedule the mile stones for completion of work

Such extension of time or rescheduling of milestone/s shall be without prejudice to any
other right or remedy of the parties in contract or in law, provided further that for
concurrent delays under this sub clause and sub clause §.2 to the extent the delay is
covered under sub clause $.2 the contractor shall be entitled to only extension of time
and no damages.

Request for rescheduling of Mile stones or extension of time, to be eligible for
consideration, shall be made by the Contractor in writing within fourteen days of the
happening of the event causing delay on the prescribed forms ie. Form of application

So

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 41 ---
 

Pave |4]

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Time is the essence
of the contract

Computerized
Measurement Book

CONTRACTOR

by the contractor for seeking rescheduling of milestones or Form of application by the
contractor for seeking extension of time (Appendix -XV1) respectively to the authority
as indicated in Schedule 'F'. The Contractor shall indicate in such a request the period
by which rescheduling of milestone/s or extension of time is desired,

With every request for rescheduling of milestones, or if at any time the actual progress
of work falls behind the approved programme by more than 10% of the stipulated
period of completion of contract. the contractor shall produce a revised programme
which shall include all details of pending drawings and decisions required to complete
the contract and also the target dates by which these details should be available without
causing any delay in execution of the work. A recovery as specified in Schedule 'F
shall be made on per day basis in case of delay in submission of the revised programme.

5.4.1, In any such case the authority as indicated in Schedule 'F' may give a fair and
reasonable extension of time for completion of work or reschedule the mile
stones. Engineer -in-Charge shall finalize/ reschedule a particular mile stone
betore taking an action against subsequent mile stone Such extension or
rescheduling of the milestones shall be communicated to the Contractor by the
authority as indicated in Schedule 'F' in writing, within 21 days of the date of
receipt of such request from the Contractor in prescribed form, In event of non
application by the contractor for extension of time E-in-C after affording
opportunity to the contractor, may give, supported with a programme (as
specified under 5.4 above), a fair and reasonable extension within a reasonable
period of occurrence of the event.

5.5 In case the work is delayed by any reasons, in the opinion of the Engineer-in-Charge,
by the contractor for reasons beyond the events mentioned in clause 5.2 or clause 5.3 or
clause 5.4 and beyond the justified extended date: without prejudice to right to take
action under Clause 3, the Engineer-in-Charge may grant extension of time required for
completion of work without rescheduling of milestones, The contractor shall be liable
for levy of compensation for delay for such extension of time.

Clause 54 f
For Maintenance Works estimated cost upto Rs. 25 Lacs

The time allowed for execution ef the work as specified in the Schedule ‘F’ shall be the essence of
the Contract ie. the contract period will not be extended, The execution of the work shall
commence from such time period as mentioned in schedule 'F’. If the contractor commits default in
commencing the execution of the work as aforesaid the performance guarantee shall be forfeited by
the Engineer in Charge and shall be absolutely at the disposal of the Government without prejudice
to any other right or remedy available in law.

Clause 6

Engineer-in-Charge shall, except as otherwise provided, ascertain and determine by measurement
the value of work done in accordance with the contract. All measurements of all items having
lindneial value shall be entered by the contractor and compiled in the shape of the Computerized
Measurement Book having pages of A-4 size as per the format of the department so that a complete
record is obtained of all the items of works performed under the contract,

All such measurements and levels recorded by the contractor or his authorized representative from
lime to time, during the progress of the work, shall be got checked by the contractor from the
Engineer-in-Charge or his authorized representative as per interval or program fixed in consultation
with Engineer-in-Charge or his authorized representative, After the necessary corrections made by
the Engineer-in-Charge. the measurement sheets shall be returned to the contractor for
incorporating the corrections and for resubmission to the Engineer-in-Charge for the dated
signatures hy the Engineer-in-Charge and the contractor or their representatives in token of their

HCCe ane

Whenever bill is due for payment. the contractor would initially submit draft computerized
measurement sheets and these measurements would be got checked/test checked from the
Engineer-in-Charge and/or his authorized representative. The contractor will, thereafter,
incorporate such changes as may be done during these checks/test checks in his draft computerized
measurements, and submit to the department a computerized measurement book, duly bound, and
with its pages machine numbered. The Engineer-in- Charge and/or his authorized representative
would thereafter check this MB. and record the necessary certificates for their checks/test checks.

Ihe final. fair. computerized measurement book given by the contractor. duly bound, with its pages
machine numbered. should be 100% correct, and no cutting or over-writing in measurements

WY g

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

   


--- Page 42 ---
Pa ve | 42

Standard Single Bid Documents for Eleetrical Warks

Payment on
intermediate
certificate to be
regarded as
Advances

CONTRACTOR

would thereafter be allowed. If at all any error is noticed, the contractor shall have to submit a fresh
computerized MB with its pages duly machine numbered and bound, after getting the earlier MB
cancelled by the department. Thereafter, the MB shall be taken in the Divisional Office records,
and allotted a number as per the Register of Computerized MBs. This should be done before the
corresponding bill is submitted to the Division Office for payment. The contractor shall submit two
spare copies of such computerized MB's for the purpose of reference and record by the various
officers of the department.

The contractor shall also submit to the department separately his computerized Abstract of Cost
and the bill based on these measurements, duly bound, and its pages machine numbered along with
two spare copies of the "bill. Thereafter, this bill will be processed by the Division Office and
allotted a number as per the computerized record in the same way as done for the measurement
book meant for measurements.

The contractor shall, without extra charge, provide all assistance with every appliance, labour and
other things necessary for checking of measurements/levels by the Engineer-in-Charge or his
representative.

Except where any general or detailed description of the work expressly shows to the contrary,
measurements shall be taken in accordance with the procedure set forth in the specifications
notwithstanding any provision in the relevant Standard Method of measurement or any general or
local custom. In the case of items which are not covered by specifications, measurements shall be
taken in accordance with the relevant standard method of measurement issued by the Bureau of
Indian Standards and if for any item no such standard is available then a mutually agreed method
shall be followed.

The contractor shall give not less than seven days’ notice to the Engineer-in-Charge or his
authorized representative in charge of the work before covering up or otherwise placing beyond the
reach of checking and/or test checking the measurement of any work in order that the same may be
checked and/or test checked and correct dimensions thereof be taken before the same is covered up
or placed beyond the reach of checking and/or test checking measurement and shall not cover up
and place beyond reach of measurement any work without consent in writing of the Engineer-in-
Charge or his authorized representative in charge of the work who shall within the aforesaid period
of seven days inspect the work. and if any work shall be covered up or placed beyond the reach of
checking and/or test checking measurements without such notice having been given or the
Engineer-in-Charge's consent being obtained in writing the same shall be uncovered at the
Contractor's expense, or in default thereof no payment or allowance shall be made for such work or
the materials with which the same was executed.

Engineer-in-Charge or his authorized representative may cause either themselves or through
another officer of the department to check the measurements recorded by contractor and all
provisions stipulated herein above shall be applicable to such checking of measurements or levels.

it is also a term of this contract that checking and/or test checking the measurements of any item of
work in the measurement book and/or its payment in the interim, on account of final bill shall not
he considered as conclusive evidence as to the sufficiency of any work or material to which it
relates nor shall it relieve the contractor from liabilities from any over measurement or defects
naticed ull completion of the defects liability period.

Clause 7

No payment shall be made for work, estimated to cost Rs. Five lac or less till after the whole of the
work shall have been completed and certificate of completion given. For works estimated to cost
over Rs. Five lac, the interim or running account bills shall be submitted by the contractor for the
work executed on the basis of such recorded measurements on the format of the Department in
triplicate on or before the date of every month fixed for the same by the Engineer-in-Charge. The
contractor shall not be entitled to be paid any such interim payment if the gross work done together
with net payment adjustment of adyances for material collected, if any, since the last such payment
is less than the amount specified in Schedule 'F, in which case the interim bill shall be prepared on
the appointed date of the month after the requisite progress is achieved. Engineer-in-Charge shall
arrange to have the bill verified by taking or causing to be taken, where necessary, the requisite
measurements of the work. In the event of the failure of the contractor to submit the bills, no claims
whatsoever due to delays on payment including that of interest shall be payable to the contractor.
Payment on account of amount admissible shall be made by the Engineer-in-Charge certifying the
sum to which the contractor is considered entitled by way of interim payment at such rates as
decided by the Engineer-in-Charge. The amount admissible shall be paid by 10th working day after
the day of presentation of the bill by the Contractor to the Engineer-in-Charge or his Asstt.
Engineer together with the account of the material issued by the department, or dismantled
materials. if any. In the case of works outside the headquarters of the Engineer- in-Charge, the

{4 i

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 43 ---
 

Page | 43

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

period of ten working days will be extended to fifteen working days.

All such interim payments shall be regarded as payment by way of advances against final payment
only and shall not preclude the requiring of bad, unsound and imperfect or unskilled work to be
rejected, removed, taken away and reconstructed or re-erected. Any certificate given by the
Engineer-in-Charge relating to the work done or materials delivered forming part of such payment,
may be modified or corrected by any subsequent such certificate(s) or by the final certificate and
shall not by itself be conclusive evidence that any work or materials to which it relates is/are in
accordance with the contract and specifications, Any such interim payment, or any part thereof
shall not in any respect conclude. determine or affect in any way powers of the Engineer-in-Charge
under the contract or any of such payments be treated as final settlement and adjustment of
accounts or in any way vary or affect the contract.

Pending consideration of extension of date of completion, interim payments shall continue to be
made as herein provided without prejudice to the right of the department to take action under the
terms of this contract for delay in the completion of work, if the extension of date of completion is
not granted by the competent authority. The Engineer-in-Charge in his sole discretion on the basis
of a certificate from the Assit. Engineer to the effect that the work has been conipleted up to the
level in question make interim advance payments without detailed measurements for work done
(other than foundations, items to be covered under finishing items) up to lintel level (including
sunshade ete.) and slab level. for each floor working out at 75% of the assessed value. The advance
payments so allowed shall be adjusted in the subsequent interim bills to be submitted by the
contractor within 10 days of the interim payment, In case of delay in submission of bill by the
contractor a simple interest @ 10% (ten percent) per annum shall be paid to the Government from
the date of expiry of prescribed time limit which will be compounded on yearly basis.

Payments in In case of composite e-Tender. running payment for the major component shall be made by EE of
composite Contracts major discipline to the main contractor, Running payment for minor component shall be made by
the Engineer-in-Charge of the discipline of minor component directly to the main contractor,

In cise main contractor fails to make the payment to the contractor associated by him within 15
days of receipt of each running account payment, then on the written complaint of contractor
associated for such minor component. Engineer in charge of minor component shall serve the show
cause to the main contractor and if reply of main contractor either not received or found
unsatisfactory, he may make the payment directly to the contractor associated for minor component
as per the terms and conditions of the agreement drawn between main contractor and associate
contractor fixed by him. Such Payment made to the associate contractor shall be recovered by
Engineer-in-charge of major or minor component from the next R/A/ final bill due to main
contractor as the case may be

Clause 74

No Running Account Bill shall be paid for the work till the applicable labour licenses, registration
with EPFO, ESIC and BOCW Welfare Board, whatever applicable are submitted by the contractor
to the Engineer-in-Charge.

Completion Clause 8
Certificate a. ; ‘ ; , . : :

Within ten days of the completion of the work. the contractor shall Bive notice of such completion
to the Engineer-in-Charge and within thirty days of the receipt of such notice, the Engineer-in-
Charge shall inspect the work and if there is no defeet in the work, shall furnish the contractor with
a final certificate of completion. otherwise a provisional certificate of physical completion
indicating defects (a) to be rectified by the contractor and/or (b) for which payment will be made at
reduced rates, shall be issued. But no final certificate of completion shall be issued. nor shall the
work be considered to be complete until the contractor shall have removed from the premises on
which the work shall be execiited all scaffolding, surplus’ materials, rubbish and all huts and
sanitary arrangements required’ for his/their work people on the site in connection with the
execution of the works as shall have been erected or constructed by the contractor(s) and cleaned
Off the dirt from all wood work, doors, windows. walls, floor or other parts of the building. in,
Upon. or about which the work is to be executed or of w hich he may have had possession for the
Pimpse OF the execution: thereof and not until the work shall have been measured by the
Engineer-in-Charge. [the contractor shall fail to comply with the requirements of this Clause as to
removal of scaffolding, surplus materials and rubbish and all huts and sanitary arrangements as
aloresaid and cleaning off dirt on or before the date fixed for the completion of work. the Engineer-
in-Charge may at the expense of the contractor remove such seuffolding, surplus materials and
rubbish ete., and dispose of the same as he thinks fit and clean off such dirt as aforesaid, and the
contractor shall have no claim in respect of scaffolding or surplus materials as aforesaid except for
any sum actually realized by the sale thereof’

CONTRACTOR

.

.

fr_ Cw

ws

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 44 ---
Pa

e |44

fF

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Contractor to keep
Site Clean

Payment of Final Bill

Payment of
Contractor's Bills to
Banks

Materials to be
provided by the
Contractor

CONTRACTOR

Clause 8A

When the annual repairs and maintenance of works are carried out, the splashes and droppings
from white washing, colour washing, painting etc., on walls, floor, windows, ete shall be removed
and the surface cleaned simultaneously with the completion of these items of work in the individual
rooms, quarters or premises ete. where the work is done: without waiting for the actual completion
of all the other items of work in the contract. In case the contractor fails to comply with the
requirements of this clause, the Engineer-in-Charge shall have the right to get this work done at the
cost of the contractor either departmentally or through any other agency. Before taking such action,
the Engineer-in-Charge shall give ten days notice in writing to the contractor.

Clause 9

The final bill shall be submitted by the contractor in the same manner as specified in interim bills
within three months of physical completion of the work or within one month of the date of the final
certificate of completion furnished recorded by the Engineer-in-Charge whichever is earlier. No
further claims shall be made by the contractor after submission of the final bill and these shall be
deemed to have been waived and extinguished. Payments of those items of the bill in respect of
whieh there is no dispute and of items in dispute, for quantities and rates as approved by Engineer-
in-Charge. will, as far as possible be made within three months the period specified here in under,
the period being reckoned from the date of receipt of the bill by the Engineer-in- Charge or his
authorized Asstt. Engineer/Junior Engineer, complete with account of materials issued by the
Department and dismantled materials if any.

(a) If the E-Tendered value of work is up to Rs. 45 lac : 2 months

(b) Ifthe E-Tendered value of work is more than Rs.45 lacand upto : 3 months
Rs, 2.5 Crore

(c) Ifthe E-Tendered value of work exceeds Rs. 2.5 Crore : 6 months

Ii the final bill is submitted by the contractor within the period specified above and delay in
payment of final bills is made by the dept. After prescribed time limit a simple interest (@5% per
annum shall be paid to the contractor from the date of expiry of prescribed time limit which will be
compounded on yearly basis, provided the final bill submitted by the contractor is found to be in
order.

Clause 9A

Payments due to the contractor may, if so desired by him, be made to his bank, registered financial,
co-operative or thrift societies or recognized financial institutions instead of direct to him provided
that the contractor furnishes to the Engineer-in-Charge (1) an authorization in the form of a legally
valid document such as a power of attorney conferring authority on the bank; registered financial,
co-operative or thrift sogieties or recognized financial institutions to receive payments and (2) his
own acceptance of the correctness of the amount made out as being due to him by Government or
his signature on the bill or other claim preferred against Government before settlement by the
Engineer-in-Charge of the account or claim by payment to the bank, registered financial, co-
operative or thrift societies or recognized financial institutions. While the receipt given by such
banks; registered financial, co-operative or thrift societies or recognized financial institutions shall
constitute a full and sufficient discharge for the payment, the contractor shall whenever possible
present his bills duly receipted and discharged through his bank, registered financial, co operative
or thrift societies or recognized financial institutions.

Nothing herein contained shall operate to create in favour of the bank; registered financial, co-
operative or thrift societies or recognized financial institutions any rights or equities vis the
President of India.

Clause 10A

The contractor shall, at his own expense, provide all materials, required for the works other than
those which are stipulated to be supplied by the Government.

The contractor shall, at his own expense and without delay; supply to the Engineer-in-Charge
sumples of materials 10 be used on the work and shall get these approved in advance. All such
muterials to be provided by the Contractor shall be in conformity with the specifications laid down
or referred to in the contact, The contractor shall, if requested by the Engineer-in- Charge furnish
proof, to the satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge that the materials ‘so comply. The Engineer-in-
Charge shall within thirty days of supply of samples or within such further period as he may
require intimate to the Contractor in writing whether samples are approved by him or not. If
samples are not approved, the Contractor shall forthwith arrange to supply to the Engineer-in-

[a _ gg

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 45 ---
 

Page |45

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

(hire Jor his approval. fresh samples complying with the specifications laid down in the contract.
When muterials are required to be tested in accordance with specifications, approval of the
Engineer-in-Charge shall be issued after the test results are received.

The Contractor shall at his risk and cost submit the samples of materials to be tested or analyzed
and shall not make use of or incorporate in the work any materials represented by the samples until
the required tests or analysis have been made and materials finally accepted by the Engineer-in-
Charge. The Contractor shall not be eligible for any claim or compensation either arising out of any
delay in the work or due to any corrective measures required to be taken on account of and as a
result of testing of materials.

The contructor shall. at his risk and cost. make all arrangements and shall provide all facilities as
the bngineer-in-Charge may require for collecting. and preparing the required number of samples
for such tests at such time and to such place or places as may be directed by the Engineer-in-
Charge and bear all charges and cost of testing unless specifically provided for otherwise elsewhere
in the contract or specifications. The Engineer-in- Charge or his authorized representative shall at
all times have access to the works and to all workshops and places where work is being prepared or
from where materials, manufactured articles or machinery are being obtained for the works and the
contractor shall afford every facility and every assistance in obtaining the right to such access. The
Engineer-in-Charge shall have full powers to require the removal trom the premises of all materials
which in his opinion are not in accordance with the specifications and in case of default, the
Engineer-in-Charge shall be at liberty to employ at the expense of the contractor, other persons to
remove the same without being answerable or accountable for any loss or damage that may happen
of arise to such materials. The Engineer-in-Charge shall also have full powers to require other
proper materials to be substituted thereof and in case of default, the Engineer-in-Charge may cause
the same to be supplied and all costs which may attend such removal and substitution shall be
borne by the Contractor.

The contractor shall at his own expense, provide a material testing lab at the site for conducting
routine field tests. The lab shall be equipped at least with the testing equipment as specified in
schedule F,

secured \dsance on Chiuse 10B

Materials ‘ ; we § ; : ie ; :
(i) The contractor. on signing an indenture in the form to be specified by the Engineer-in-

Charge, shall be entitled to be paid during the progress of the execution of the work up to
75% of the assessed value of any materials or an amount not exceeding 75% of the material
element cost in the e-Tendered rate of the finished item of the work, whichever is lower,
which are in the opinion of the Engineer-in- Charge non-perishable, non-fragile and non-
combustible and are in accordance with the contract and which have been brought on the
site in connection therewith and are adequately stored and/or protected against damage by
weather or other causes but which have not at the time of advance been incorporated in the
works. When materials on account of which an advance has been made under this sub-
clause are incorporated in the work, the amount of such advance shall be recovered/deducted
from the next payment made under any of the clause or clauses of this contract,

Such secured advance shall also be payable on other items of perishable nature, fragile and
combustible with the approval of the Engineer-in-Charge provided the contractor provides a
comprehensive insurance cover for the full cost of such materials. The decision of the
Engineer- in-Charge shall be final and binding on the contractor in this matter. No secured
advance, shall however, be paid on high-risk materials such as ordinary glass, sand, petrol,
diesel ete.

Paymenton Account Clause 10¢
of Increase in Prices/
Wages due to
Statutory Order(s)

If after submission of e-Tender, if the price of any marital in corporate in the work and/ or wages of
labour increases as a direct result of the coming into force of any fresh Jaw or statutory rule or
order (but not due to any variation of rate in GST applicable on such material(s) being considered
under this clause) beyond the prices/wages prevailing at the time of the last stipulated date of
reevipt of e-Tender including extensions, if any, for the work during contract period including the
justified period extended under the provisions of clause 5 of the contract without any action under
clause 2, then the amount of the contract shall accordingly be varied.

If after submission of the e-Tender, the price of any material incorporated in the works (excluding
the materials covered under Clause 10CA and/or wages of labour as prevailing at the time of last
stipulated date of receipt of e-Tender including extensions. if any, is decreased as a direct result of
the coming into force of any fresh law or statutory rules or order (but not due to any variation of
rate in GST applicable on such material (s) being considered under this clause), Government shall
in respect of materials incorporated in the works and/or labour engaged on the xecution of the
work after the date of coming into force of such law statutory rule or order be éntitled to deduct

A _

CONTR AER For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 46 ---
Pave |46

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Payment due to
Increase / Decrease
in Prices! Wages
alter Reeeipt of E-
lender for Works

CONTRACTOR

from the dues of the contractor, such amount as shall be equivalent to the difference between the
prices of the materials and/or wages as prevailed at the time of the last stipulated date for receipt of
e-Tender including extensions if any for the work and the prices of materials and/or wages of
labour on the coming into force of such law, statutory rule or order, This will be applicable for the
contract period including the justified period extended under the provisions of clause 5 of the
vontract without any action under clause 2,

Engineer-in-Charge shall call books of account and other relevant documents from the contractor to
satisfy himself about reasonability of increase in prices of materials and wages.

The contractor shall, within a reasonable time of his becoming aware of any alteration in the price
of any such materials and/or wages of labour, give notice thereof to the Engineer-in-Charge stating
that the same is given pursuant to this condition together with all information relating thereto which
he may be in position to supply.

For this purpose. the labour component of 85% of the value of the work executed during period
under consideration shall not exceed the percentage as specified in Schedule F, and the
increase/decrease in labour shall be considered on the minimum daily wages in rupees of any
unskilled Mazdoor, fixed under any law statutory role and order, The cost of work for which
escalation is applicable (W) is same as cost of work done worked out as indicated in sub-para (ii) of
clause 10 CC except the amount of full assessed value of secured Advance.

Clause LOCC

If the prices of materials and/or wages of labour required for execution of the work increase, the
contractor shall be compensated for such increase as per provisions detailed below and the amount
of the contract shall accordingly be varied. subject to the condition that such compensation for
escalation in prices and wages shall be available only for the work done during the stipulated
period of the contract including the justified period extended under the provisions of clause 5 of the
contract without any action under clause 2. No such compensation shall be payable for a work for
which the stipulated period of completion is equal to or less than the time as specified in Schedule
F, Such compensation for escalation in the prices of materials and labour, when due, shall be
worked out based on the following provisions:-

(i) The base date for working out such escalation shall be the last stipulated date of receipt of e-
Tender including extension, if any.

(ii) The cost of work on which escalation will be payable shall be reckoned as below :
(a) Gross value of work done up to this quarter ; (A)
(b) Gross value of work done up to the last quarter : (B)
(c) Gross value of work done since previous quarter (A-B) (C)
(d) Full assessed value of Secured Advance fresh paid in this quarter : (D)
(eg) Full assessed value of Secured Advance recovered in this quarter : (E)
if) Full assessed value of Secured Advance for which escalation Payable in this
quarter (D-E): (F)
(g) Advance payment made during this quarter: (G)
(hb) Advance payment recovered during this quarter: (H)
(i) Advance payment for which escalation is payable in this Quarter(G-H): ()
(j) Extra items/deviated quantities of items paid as per Clause 12 Based on
prevailing market rates during this quarter: (J)
Then. M = C+F+I-J
N=0.85M
Cost of work for which escalation is applicable:
W=N

(iii) Components for materials (except cement, reinforcement bars, structural steel, POL) labour,
etc. shall be pre-determined for every work and incorporated in the conditions of contract
attached to the e-Tender papers included in Schedule 'F. The decision of the Engineer-in-
Charge in working out such percentage shall be binding on the contractors,

(iv) The compensation for escalation for other materials shall be worked as per the formula given

/__ 4,

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 47 ---
‘ave | 47

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

below:-

Adjustment for civil component / electrical component of construction 'Materials'

Xm . MI—Mly
Vm = W X—_ X —_—
100 Mly
Vm = Variation in material cost i.e. increase or decrease in the amount in rupees to be paid
or recovered.

W = Cost of Work done worked out as indicated in sub-para (ii) of Clause LOCC.

Am = Component of ‘materials’ (except cement, structural steel, reinforcement bars POL)
expressed as percent of the total value of work.

MI All India Wholesale Price Index for civil componenvelectrical component* of
construction material as worked out on the basis of All India Wholesale Price
Index for Individual Commodities/ Group Items for the period under
consideration as published by Economic Advisor to Govt. of India, Ministry of
Industry & Commerce and applying weightages to the Individual
Commodities/Group Items. (In respect of the justified period extended under the
provisions of clause 5 of the contract without any action under clause 2, the index
prevailing at the time of updated stipulated date of completion considering the
eflect of extra work (extra time to be calculated on prorata basis only as cost of
extra work x stipulated period/e-Tendered cost, shall be considered.) If updated
stipulated date of completion as calculated on pro- rata basis does not cover full
calendar month then indices will be considered or restricted to previous month.

Ml, = All India Wholesale Price Index for civil componenvelectrical component* of
construction material as worked out on the basis of All India Wholesale Price
Index for Individual Commodities/Group Items valid on the last stipulated date of
receipt of ¢-Tender including extension, if any, as published by the Economic
Advisor to Govt. of India, Ministry of Industry & Commerce and applying
weightages to the Individual Commodities/ Group items,

*Note: relevant component only will be applicable,

(¥) The following principles shall be followed while working out the indices mentioned in para
(iv) above.

(a) The compensation for escalation shall be worked out at quarterly intervals and shall
be with respect to the cost of work done as per bills paid during the three calendar
months of the said quarter, The dates of preparation of bills as finally entered in the
Measurement Book by the Assistant Engineer! date of submission of bill finally by
the contractor to the department in case of computerized measurement books shall
be the guiding factor 1o decide the bills relevant to the quarterly interval. The first
such payment shall be made at the end of three months after the month (excluding
the month in which e-Tender was accepted) and thereafter at three months’ interval,
At the time of completion of the work, the last period for payment might become
less than 3 months, depending on the actual date of completion.

(b) The index (MI/FI ete.) relevant to any quarter/period for which such compensation
is paid shall be the arithmetical average of the indices relevant to the three calendar
months. If the period up to date of completion after the quarter covered by the last
such instalment of payment, is less than three months, the index MI and FI shall be
the average of the indices for the months falling within that period.

(vi) The compensation for ésealation for labour shall be worked out as per the formula given
below:-
¥ Li = Llp
VL=W X¥— X ———
100 Lio
VE Variation in labour cost i.e. amount of increase or decrease in rupees to be paid or
recovered,
W: Value of work done, worked out as indicated in sub-para (ii) above.
Y Component of labour expressed as a percentage of the total value of the work.
(1; Minimum wage in rupees of an unskilled adult male mazdoor, fixed under any law,

statutory rule or order as applicable on the last date of the quarte vious to the

JM | y le

  

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 48 ---
Page |48

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Dismantled Material
Govt. Property

Work to be Executed
in Accordance with
Specifications,

CONTRACTOR

one under consideration. (In respect of the justified period extended under the
provisions of clause 5 of the contract without any action under clause 2, the
minimum wage prevailing on the last date of quarter previous to the quarter
pertaining to updated stipulated date of C ompletion considering the effect of extra
work (extra time to be calculated on prorata basis only as cost of extra work x
stipulated period/e-Tendered cost, shall be considered. ) If updated stipulated date
of completion as calculated on pro- rata basis does not cover full calendar month
then indices will be considered or restricted to previous month.

L10: Minimum daily wage in rupees of an unskilled adult male mazdoor, fixed under any
jaw, statutory rule or order as on the last stipulated date of receipt of e-Tender
including extension, if any.

(vii) The following principles will be followed while working out the compensation as per sub
para (vi) above.

(a) The minimum wage of an unskilled Mazdoor mentioned in sub-para (vi) above
shall be the higher of the wage notified by Government of India, Ministry of Labour
and that notified by the local administration both relevant to the place of work and
the period of reckoning.

(b) The escalation for labour also shall be paid at the same quarterly intervals when
escalation due to increase in cost of materials is paid under this clause. If such
revision of minimum wages takes place during any such quarterly intervals, the
escalation compensation shall be payable at revised rates only for work done in
subsequent quarters;

(c} Irrespective of variations in minimum wages of any category of labour, for the
purpose of this clause, the variation in the rate for an unskilled Mazdoor alone shall
form the basis for working out the escalation compensation payable on the labour
Component

(viii)In the event the price of materials and/or wages of labour required for execution of the work
decrease/s, there shall be a downward adjustment of the cost of work so that such price of
materials and/or wages of labour shall be deductible from the cost of work under this contract
and in this regard the formula herein before stated under this Clause 10CC shall mutatis
mutandis apply, provided that:

(a) no such adjustment for the decrease in the price of materials and/or wages of labour
aforementioned would be made in case of contracts in which the stipulated period
of completion of the work is equal to or less than the time as specified in Schedule
-

(b) the [ingineer-in-Charge shall otherwise be entitled to lay down the procedure by
which the provision of this sub-clause shall be implemented from time to time and

the decision of the Engineer-in-Charge in this behalf shall be final and binding on
the contractor.

(ix) Provided always that:-

(a) Where provisions of clause 10CC are applicable, provisions of clause 10C will nat
be applicable,

(b) Where provisions of clause 10CC are not applicable, provisions of clause 10C will
become applicable

Note; Updated stipulated date of completion (period of completion plus extra time for extra
work) for compensation under clause 10C and 10 CC

The factor of 1.25 taken into account for calculating the extra time under clause 12.1 for extra
time shall not be considered while calculating the updated stipulated date of completion for
this purpose in clause 10C and clause 10CC.

Clause 10D

lhe contractor shall treat all materials obtained during dismantling of a structure, excavation of the
site for a work, ete. as Government's property and such materials shall be disposed off to the best
advantage of Government according to the instructions in writing issued by the Engineer-in-Charge

Clause 11

The contractor shall execute the whole and every part of the work in the most substantial and
workmanlike manner both as regards materials and otherwise in every respect in strict accordance

JA Sb

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 49 ---
Pa = | 49

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

.

Drawings, Orders with the specifications. The contractor shall also conform exactly, fully and faithfully to the design,
ete. drawings and instructions in writing in respect of the work signed by the Engineer-in-Charge and
the contractor shall be furnished free of charge one copy of the contract documents together with
specifications, designs, drawings and instructions as are not included in the standard specifications
of Central Public Works Department specified in Schedule 'F or in any Bureau of Indian Standard
or any other, published standard or code or, Schedule of Rates or any other printed publication

reterred to elsewhere in the contract

The contractor shall comply with the provisions of the contract and with the care and diligence
execute and maintain the works and provide all labour and materials, tools and plants including for
measurements and supervision of all works, structural plans and other things of temporary or
permanent nature required for such execution and maintenance in so far as the necessity for
providing these, is specified or is reasonably inferred from the contract. The Contractor shall take
full responsibility for adequacy, suitability and safety of all the works and methods of construction.

Deviations Clause 12
= Tae os The | nginver-in-Charge shall have power (i) to make alteration in, omissions from, additions to, or

substitutions tor the original specifications, drawings, designs and instructions that may appear to
him to be necessary or advisable during the progress of the work, and (it) to omit a part of the
works in case of non-availability of a portion of the site or for any other reasons and the contractor
shall be bound to carry out the works in accordance with any instructions given to him in writing
signed by the Engineer-in-Charge and such alterations, omissions, additions or substitutions shall
form part of the contract as if originally provided therein and any altered, additional or substituted
work which the contractor may be directed to do in the manner specified above as part of the
works, shall be carried out by the contractor on the same conditions in all respects including price
on which he agreed to do the main work except as hereafier provided.

The completion cost of any agreement for Maintenance works including works of upgradation,
aesthetic. special repair, addition/ alteration should not exceed 1.25 times of E-Tendered amount.
Any further deviation beyond this limit upto 1.5 times of e-Tendered amount shall be approved by
the authority mentioned in schedule 'F’ with recorded reason and in exceptional case, ADG shall
have full power to approve the deviation beyond 1.50 times of e-Tendered amount with recorded
reason and take suitable corrective action.

12.1. The time for completion of the works shall, in the event of any deviations resulting in
additional cost over the e-Tendered value sum being ordered, be extended, if requested by
the contractor, as follows : (i) In the proportion which the additional cost of the altered,
ditional or substituted work. bears to the original e-Tendered value plus (ii) 25% of the
lime calculated in (i) above or such further additional time as may be considered
reasonable by the Engineer-in-Charge.

Deviation, Extra 12.2. In the case of Extra Item(s) being the schedule items (Delhi Schedule of Rates items),

Items and Pricing these shall be paid as per the schedule rate plus cost index (at the time of e- Tender)
plus/minus percentage above/ below quoted contract amount. Payment of Extra items in
case of non-schedule items (Non-DSR items) shall be made as per the prevailing market
rate.

bh
ow

Deviation, deviated I In the case of Substitute Item(s) being the schedule items (Delhi Schedule of Rates

Quantities, Pricing items). these shall be paid as per the schedule rate plus cost index (at the time of e-
lender) plus/minus percentage above/ below quoted contract amount. Payment of
Substitute in ease of non-schedule items (Non-DSR items) shall be made as per the
prevailing market rate.

In the case of contract items, which exceed the limits laid down in schedule F, the
contractor shall be paid rates at Agreement rate/Market rate whichever is lower.

In case of decrease in the rates prevailing in the market of items for the work in excess of
the limits laid down in Schedule F, the Engineer-in-Charge shall after giving notice to the
contractor within one month of occurrence of the excess and after taking into
consideration any reply received trom him within fifteen days of the receipt of the notice,
revise the rates for the work in question within one month of the expiry of the said period
of fifteen days having regard to the market rates.

12.4, For the purpose of operation of Schedule "F", the following works shall be treated as
works relating to foundation unless & otherwise defined in the contract:

(i) For Buildings : All works up to 1.2 metres above ground level or up to

floor | level whichever is lower. Q.

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

AM

#

J
CONTRACTOR


--- Page 50 ---
Page |50

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Foreclosure of
contract duc to
Abandonment or
Reduction io Scope
of Work

CONTRACTOR

(ii) For abutments, piers and well staining : All works up to 1.2 m above the
bed level.
(iii) For retaining walls, wing walls, compound walls. chimneys, over head

reservoits/ tanks and other elevated structures : All works up to 1.2 metres
above the ground level.

(iv) For reservoirs/tanks (other than overhead reservoirs/tanks) : All works up
to 1.2 metres above the ground level.
(v) For basement: All works up to 1.2 m above ground level or up to floor 1
level whichever is lower.
(vi) For Roads, all items of excavation and filling including treatment of sub
base.
12.5. Any operation incidental to or necessarily has to be in contemplation of e-Tenderer while

quoting filing e-Tender, or necessary for proper execution of the item included in the
Schedule of quantities or in the schedule of rates mentioned above, whether or not,
specifically indicated in the description of the item and the relevant specifications, shall
be deemed to be included in the rates quoted by the e-Tenderer or the rate given in the
said schedule of rates, as the case may be. Nothing extra shall be admissible for such
operations.

Clause 13

If at any time after acceptance of the e-Tender or during the progress of work, the purpose or object
tor which the work is being done changes due to any supervening cause and as a result of which the
work has to be abandoned or reduced in scope the Engineer-in-Charge shall give notice in writing
to that effect to the contractor stating the decision as well as the cause for such decision and the
contractor shall act accordingly in the matter. The contractor shall have no claim to any payment of
compensation or otherwise whatsoever, on account of any profit or advantage which he might have
derived from the execution of the works in full but which he did not derive in consequence of the
foreclosure of the whole or part of the works.

The contractor shall be paid at contract rates, full amount for works executed at site and, in
addition, a reasonable amount as certified by the Engineer-in-Charge for the items hereunder
mentioned whieh could not be utilized on the work to the full extent in view of the foreclosure,

(i) Any expenditure incurred on preliminary site work, e.g. temporary access roads,
temporary labour huts, staff quarters and site office; storage accommodation and water
storage tanks.

(ii) Government shall have the option to take over contractor's materials or any part thereof
either brought to site or of which the contractor is legally bound to accept delivery from
suppliers (for incorporation in or incidental to the work) provided, however
Government shall be bound to take over the materials or such portions thereof as the
contractor does not desire to retain, For materials taken over or to be taken over by
Government, cost of such materials as detailed by Engineer-in- Charge shall be paid.
the cost shall, however. take into account purchase price, cost of transportation and
deterioration or damage which may have been caused to materials whilst in the custody
of the contractor,

(iii) Reasonable compensation for transfer of T & P from site to contractor's permanent
stores or to his other works, whichever is less. If T & P are not transported to either of
the said places, no cost of transportation shall be payable.

(iv) Reasonable compensation for repatriation of contractor's site staff and imported labour
to the extent necessary.

The contractor shall. if required by the Engineer- in-Charge, furnish to him, books of account,
wage books, time sheets and other relevant documents and evidence as may be necessary to enable
him to certify the reasonable amount payable under this condition,

The reasonable amount of items on (i), (iv) and (v) above shall not be in excess of 2% of the cost of
the work remaining incomplete on the date of closure, i.e. total stipulated cost of the work as per
accepted e-Tender less the cost of work actually executed under the contract and less the cost of
contractor's materials at site taken over by the Government as per item (ii) above. Provided always
that against any payments due to the contractor on this account or otherwise, the Engineer-in-
Charge shall be entitled to recover or be credited with any outstanding balances due from the
contractor for advance paid in respect of any tool, plants and materials and any other sums which at
the date of termination were recoverable by the Government from the contractor under the terms of

AM BS

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 51 ---
Page |§1

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

the contract

In the event of action being taken under Clause 13 to reduce the scope of work, the contractor may
furnish fresh Performance Guarantee on the same conditions, in the same manner and at the same
rate for the balance e-Tendered amount and initially valid up to the extended date of completion or
stipulated date of completion if no extension has been granted plus minimum 60 days beyond that.
Wherever such a fresh Performance Guarantee is furnished by the contractor the Engineer-in-
Charge may return the previous Performance Guarantee.

Carrying out part Clause I4
work at risk & cost

: If contractor:
of contractor “

(i) Atany time makes detault during currency of work or does not execute any part of the
work with due diligence and continues to do so even after a notice in writing of 7 working
days in this respect from the Engineer-in-Charge: or

(ii) Commits default in complying with any of the terms and conditions of the contract and
does not remedy it or takes effective steps to remedy it within 7 working days even after a
notice in writing is given in that behalf by the Engineer-in-Charge: or

Fails to complete the work(s) or items of work with individual dates of completion, on or
before the date(s) so determined, and does not complete them within the period specified
in the notice given in writing in that behalf by the Engineer-in-Charge.

(ini) lhe Engineer- in-Charge without invoking action under clause 3 may, without prejudice
lo any other right or remedy against the contractor which have either accrued or accrue
thereafter to Government, by @ notice in writing to take the part work / part incomplete
work of any item(s) out of his hands and shall have powers to :

(a) Take possession of the site and any materials, constructional plant, implements,
stores, etc., thereon: and/or

(b) Carry out the part work / part incomplete work of any item(s) by any means at the
risk and cost of the contractor ‘

lie Pngineer-in-Charge shall determine the amount, if any, is recoverable from the contractor for
completion of the part work/ part incomplete work of any item(s) taken out of his hands and
execute at the risk and cost of the contractor, the liability of contractor on account of loss or
damage suffered by Government because of action under this clause shall not exceed 10% of the e-
Tendered value of the work.

In determining the amount, credit shall be given to the contractor with the value of work done in all
respect in the same manner and at the same rate as if it had been carried out by the original
contractor under the terms of his contract, the value of contractor's materials taken over and
incorporated in the work and use of plant and machinery belonging to the contractor.

[he certificate of the Engineer-in-Charge as to the value of work done shall be final and conclusive
against the contractor provided always that action under this clause shall only be taken after giving
notice in writing to the contractor. Provided also that if the expenses incurred by the department are
less than the amount payable to the contractor at his agreement rates, the difference shall not be
payable to the contractor.

Any excess expenditure incurred or to be incurred by Government in completing the part work/
part incomplete work of any item(s) or the excess loss of damages suffered or may be suffered by
Government as aforesaid after allowing such credit shall without prejudice to any other right or
remedy available to Government in law or per as agreement be recovered from any money due to
the Contractor on any account, and jf sueh money is insufficient. the contractor shall be called upon
inweiting and shall be liable topay the same within 30 days

I the contractor fails to pay the required sum within the aforesaid period of 30 days, the Engineer-
in-Charge shall have the right to sell any or all of the contractors' unused materials. constructional
plant. implements, temporary building at site ete. and adjust the proceeds of sale thereof towards
the dues recoverable from the contractor under the contract and if thereafter there remains any
balance outstanding, it shall be recovered in accordance with the provisions of the contract.

In the event of above course being adopted by the Engineer-in-Charge, the contractor shall have no
claim to compensation for any loss sustained by him by reason of his hav ing purchased or procured
any materials or entered into any engagements or made any advance on any account or with a view
to the execution of the work or the performance of the contract.

  

BY e

CONTRACTOR For and.on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 52 ---
Page |S2

Standiurd Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Suspension of Work

Action in case Work
not done as per
Specifications

CONTRACTOR

Clause 15

(i) The contractor shall, on receipt of the order in writing of the Engineer-in-Charge, (whose
decision shall be final and binding on the contractor) suspend the progress of the works or
uny part thereof for such time and in such manner as the Engineer-in-Charge may
consider necessary $0 as nol to cause any damage or injury to the work already done or
endanger the safety thereof’ for any of the following reasons:

(a) on account of any default on the part of the contractor or,

(b) for proper execution of the works or part thereof for reasons other than the default
of the contractor; or

(c) for safety of the works or part thereof,

The contractor shall, during such suspension, properly protect and secure the works to the
extent necessary and carry out the instructions given in that behalf by the Engineer in-
Charge,

(ii) If the suspension is ordered for reasons (b) and (¢) in sub-para (i) above:

(a) the contractor shall be entitled to an extension of time equal to the period of every
such suspension PLUS 25%, for completion of the item or group of items of work
for which a separate period of completion is specified in the contract and of which
the suspended work forms a part, and;

(b) If the total period of all such suspensions in respect of an item or group of items or
work for which a separate period of completion is specified in the contract exceeds
thirty days. the contractor shall, in addition, be entitled to such compensation as the
Engineer-in- Charge may consider reasonable in respect of salaries and/or wages
paid by the contractor to his employees and labour at site, remaining idle during the
period of suspension, adding thereto 2% to cover indirect expenses of the contractor
provided the contractor submits his claim supported by details to the Engineer-in-
Charge within fifteen days of the expiry of the period of 30 days.

(iii) If the works or part thereof is suspended on the orders of the Engineer-in-Charge for more
than three months at a time, except when suspension is ordered for reason (a) in subpara
(i) above, the contractor may after receipt of such order serve a written notice on the
Engineer-in-Charge requiring permission within fifteen days from receipt by the Engineer
in- Charge of the said notice, to proceed with the work or part thereof in regard to which
progress has been suspended and if such permission is not granted within that time, the
contractor, if he intends to treat the suspension, where it affects only a part of the works
as an omission of such part by Government or where it affects whole of the works, as an
abandonment of the works by Government, shall within ten days of expiry of such period
of 15 days give notice in writing of his intention to the Engineer-in-Charge. In the event
of the contractor treating the suspension as an abandonment of the contract by
Government, he shall have no claim to payment of any compensation on account of any
profit or advantage which he might have derived from the execution of the work in full
hut which he could not derive in consequence of the abandonment. He shall, however, be
entitled to such compensation, as the Engineer-in-Charge may consider reasonable, in
respect of salaries and/or wages paid by him to his employees and labour at site,
remaining idle in consequence adding to the total thereof 2% to cover indirect expenses
of the contractor provided the contractor submits his claim supported by details to the
Engineer-in-Charge within 30 days of the expiry of the period of 3 months.

Clause 16

All works under or in course of execution or executed in pursuance of the contract, shall at all
times be open and accessible tw the inspection and supervision of the Engineer-in-charge, his
authorized subordinates in charge of the work and all the superior officers, officer of the Quality
Assurance Unit of the Department or any organization engaged by the Department for Quality
Assurance and of the Chief Technical Examiner's Office, and the contractor shall, at all times,
during the usual working hours and at all other times at which reasonable notice of the visit of such
officers has been given to the contractor, either himself be present to receive orders and instructions
or have a responsible agent duly accredited in writing, present for that purpose. Orders given to the
Contractors agent shall be considered to have the same force as if they had been given to the
contractor himself,

1/ it shall appear to the Enginger-in-charge or his authorized subordinates in charge of the work or
tw the Chief Engineer in charge of Quality Assurance or his subordinate officers or the officers of
the organization engaged by the Department for Quality Assurance or to the Chief Technical

MY

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 53 ---
Page | 53

Standard Single Bid Doeuments tor Electrical Works

Contractor Liable
for Damages, defects
during defect
liability Period

Contractor to
Supply Tools &
Plants ete.

Recovery ol

CONTRACTOR

Examiner or his subordinate officers, that any work has been executed with unsound, imperfect, or
unskilful workmanship, or with materials or articles provided by him for the execution of the work
which are unsound or of a quality inferior to that contracted or otherwise not in accordance with the
contract, the contractor shall, on demand in writing which shall be made within twelve months (six
months in the ease of work costing Rs. 10 Lac and below except road work) of the completion of
the work from the Engineer-in-Charge specifying the work, materials or articles complained of
notwithstanding that the same may have been passed, certified and paid for forthwith rectify, or
remove and reconstruct the work so specified in whole or in part, as the case may require or as the
case may be, remove the materials or articles so specified and provide other proper and suitable
materials or articles at his own charge and cost. In the event of the failing to do so within a period
specified by the Engineer-in- Charge in his demand aforesaid, then the contractor shall be liable to
pay compensation at the same rate as under clause 2 of the contract (for non-completion of the
work in time) for this default.

In such case the Engineer-in-Charge may not accept the item of work at the rates applicable under
the contract but may aecept such items at reduced rates as the authority specified in schedule 'F’
may consider reasonable during the preparation of on account bills or final bill if the item is so
acceptable without detriment to the safety and utility of the item and the structure or he may reject
the work outright without any payment and/or get it and other connected and incidental items
rectified, or removed and re-executed at the risk and cost of the contractor. Decision of the
Engineer-in-Charge to be conveyed in writing in respect of the same will be final and binding on
the contractor.

Clause 17

If the contractor or his working people or servants shall break, deface, injure or destroy any part of
building in which they may be working. or any building, road, road kerb, fence. enclosure, water
pipe. cables, drains, electric or telephone post or wires, trees, grass or grassland, or cultivated
ground contiguous to the premises on which the work or any part is being executed, or if any
damage shall happen to the work while in progress, from any cause whatever or if any defect,
shrinkage or other faults appear in the work within twelve months (six months in the case of work
costing Rs, Ten lacs and below except road work) after a certificate final of otherwise of its
completion shall have been given by the Engineer-in- Charge as aforesaid arising out of defect or
improper materials or workmanship the contractor shall upon receipt of a notice in writing on that
behalf make the same good at his own expense or in default the Enginger-in-Charge cause the same
to be made good by other workmen and deduet the expense from any sums that may be due or at
any time thereafler may become due to the contractor, or from his security deposit or the proceeds
of sale thereof or of a sufficient portion thereof. The security deposit of the contractor shall not be
refunded before the expiry of twelve months (six months in the case of work costing Rs. Ten lacs
and below except road work) after the issue of the certificate final or otherwise, of completion of
work, or till the final bill has been prepared and passed whichever is later. Provided that in the case
of road work, if in the opinion of the Engineer-in-Charge, half of the security deposit is sufficient,
to meet all liabilities of the contractor under this contract, half of the security deposit will be
refundable after six months and the remaining half after twelve months of the issue of the said
certificate of completion or till the final bill has been prepared and passed whichever is later.

In case of Maintenance and Operation works of E&M services, the security deposit deducted from
contractors shall be refunded within one month from the date of final payment or within one month
from the date of completion of the maintenance contract whichever is earlier.

Clause 18

The contractor shall provide at his own cost all materials, machinery, tools & plants as specified in
schedule F, In addition to this, appliances, implements, other plants, ladders, cordage. tackle,
scaffolding and temporary works required for the proper execution of the work, whether original,
altered or substituted and whether included in the specifications or other documents forming part of
the contract or referred to in these conditions or not, or which may be necessary for the purpose of
salistying or complying with the requirements of the Engineer-in-Charge as to any matter as to
which under these conditions he is entitled to be satisfied, or which he is entitled to require together
with carriage therefore to and from the work. The contractor shall also supply without charge the
requisite number of persons with the means and materials, necessary for the purpose of setting out
works, and counting, weighing and assisting the measurement for examination at any time and
from time to time of the work or materials. Failing his so doing, the same may be provided by the
Engineer-in-Charge at the expense of the contractor and the expenses may be deducted, from any
money due to the contractor, under this contract or otherwise and/or from his security deposit or the
proceeds of sale thereof. or of a sufficient portions thereof,

/ KfL it ‘ ge

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 54 ---
Page |54

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Compensation paid
to Workmen

Labour Laws to be
complied by the
Contractor

Payment of Wages

CONTRACTOR

in every ease in which by virtue of the provisions sub- section (1) of section 12 of the Workmen's
Compensation Act. 1923, Government is obliged to pay compensation to a workman employed by
the contractor, in execution of the works , Government will recover from the contractor , the
amount of the compensation so paid: and, , without prejudice to the rights of the Government under
sub- section(2) of section 12 , of the said Act, Government shall be at liberty to recover such
amount or any part thereof by deducting it from the security deposit or from any sum due by
Government to the contractor whether under this contract or otherwise. Government shall not be
bound to contest any claim made against it under sub- section (1) of section 12, of the said Act,
except on the written request of the contractor and upon his giving to Government full security for
alleosts for which Government might become liable in consequence of contesting such claim.

Clause 19

‘The contractor shall obtain a valid licence under the Contract Labour (R&A) Act, 1970, and the
Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Central Rules, 1971, before the commencement of the
work, and continue to have a valid license until the completion of the work. The contractor shall
also comply with provisions of the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and
Conditions of Service) Act, 1979. The contractor shall also abide by the provisions of the Child
Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986. The contractor shall also comply with the
provisions of the building and other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment &
Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 and the building and other Construction Workers Welfare Cess
Act, 1996. Any fuilure to fulfil these requirements shall attract the penal provisions of this contract
arising out of the resultant non-execution of the work.

Clause 1I9A

No labour below the age of fourteen years shall be employed on the work.

Clause 19B

(i) The contractor shall pay to labour employed by him either directly or through
subcontractors, wages not less than fair wages as defined in the C.P.W.D, Contractor's
Labour Regulations or as per the provisions of the Contract Labour (Regulation and
Abolition) Act, 1970 and the contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Central Rules,
1971, wherever applicable.

(ii) The contractor shall, notwithstanding the provisions of any contract to the contrary,
cause to be paid fair wage to labour indirectly engaged on the work, including any
labour engaged by his sub-contractors in connection with the said work, as if the labour
had been immediately employed by him.

(ili) in respect of all labour directly or indirectly employed in the works for performance of
the contractor's part of this contract, the contractor shall comply with or cause to be
complied with the Central Public Works Department contractor's Labour Regulations
made by Government from time to time in regard to payment of wages, wage period,
deductions from wages recovery of wages not paid and deductions unauthorizedly
made, maintenance of wage books or wage slips publication of scale of wage and other
terms of employment, inspection and submission of periodical returns and all other
matters of the like nature or as per the provisions of the Contract Labour(Regulation
and Abolition) Act, 1970, and the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Central
Rules. 1971. wherever applicable

(iv) ia) The Engineer-in-Charge concerned shall have the right to deduct from the moneys
due to the contractor any sum required or estimated to be required for making
good the loss suffered by a worker or workers by reason of non-fulfillment of the
conditions of the contract for the benefit of the workers, non-payment of wages or
of deductions made from his or their wages which are not justified by their terms
of the contract or non-observance of the Regulations.

(b) Under the provision of Minimum Wages (Central) Rules, 1950, the contractor is
bound to allow to the labours directly or indirectly employed in the works one
day rest for 6 days continuous work and pay wages at the same rate as for duty, In
the event of default, the Engineer-in-Charge shall have the right to deduct the sum
or sums not paid on account of wages for weekly holidays to any labours and pay
the same to the persons entitled thereto from any money due to the contractor by
the Engineer-in-Charge concemed.

in the case of Union Territory of Delhi, however, as the all inclusive minimum
daily wages fixed under Notification of the Delhi Administration
No.F.12(162)M WO/DAB/ 43884-91, dated 31-12-1979 as amended from time to

/(Sr— ob

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 55 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

 

lime are inclusive of wages for the weekly day of rest, the question of extra
payment for weekly holiday would not arise.

(v) The contractor shall comply with the provisions of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936,
Minimum Wages Act, 1948, Employees Liability Act, 1938, Workmen's Compensation
Act, 1923, Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, Maternity Benefits Act, 1961, and the
Contractor's Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act 1970, or the modifications thereof
or any other laws relating thereto and the rules made there under from time to time.

(vi) The contractor shall indemnify and keep indemnified Government against payments to
be made under and for the observance of the laws aforesaid and the C.P.W.D.
Contractor's Labour Regulations without prejudice to his right to claim indemnity from
his sub-contractors.

(vii) The laws aforesaid shall be deemed to be a part of this contract and any breach thereof
shall be deemed to be a breach of this contract.

(viii) Whatever is the minimum wage for the time being. or if the wage payable is higher than
such wage, such wage shall be paid by the contractor to the workmen directly without
the intervention of Jamadar and that Jamadar shall not be entitled to deduct or recover
any amount from the minimum wage payable to the workmen as and by way of
commission or otherwise.

(ix) The contractor shall ensure that no amount by way of commission or otherwise is
deducted or recovered by the Jamadar from the wage of workmen.

Clause 19C

In respect of all labour directly or indirectly employed in the work for the performance of the
contractor's part of this contract, the contractor shall at his own expense arrange for the safety
provisions as per C.P.W.D. Safety Code framed from time to time and shall at his own expense
provide for all facilities in connection therewith. In case the contractor fails to make arrangement
and provide necessary facilities as aforesaid, he shall be liable to pay a penalty as decided by the
authority mentioned in Schedule F for each default and in addition. the Engineepin- Charge shall
be at liberty to make arrangement and provide facilities as aforesaid and recover the costs incurred
in that behalf from the contractor.

Clause 19D

The contractor shall submit by the 4th and 19th of every month, to the Engineer-in-Charge, a true
statement showing in respect of the second half of the preceding month and the first half of the
current month respectively:-

(1) the number of labourers employed by him on the work,
2) their working hours,
(3) the wages paid to them,

(4) the accidents that occurred during the said for night showing the circumstances under
which they happened and the extent of damage and injury caused by them, and

(5) the number of female workers who have been allowed maternity benefit according to
Clause 19F and the amount paid to them

Failing which the contractor shall be liable w pay to Government, a sum as decided by the
authority mentioned in Schedule F for each default or materially incorrect statement. The decision
of the Divisional Officer shall be final in deducting from any bill due to the contractor, the amount
levied as fine and be binding on the contractor.

Clause OE

In respect of all labour directly or indirectly employed in the works for the performance of the
contractor's part of this contract, the contractor shall comply with or cause to be complied with all
the rules framed by Government from time to time for the protection of health and sanitary
arrangements for workers employed by the Central Public Works Department and its contractors.

Clause 19F
Leave and pay during leave shall be regulated as follows:-
(1) Leave :

(i) in the case of delivery - maternity leave not exceeding 8 weeks, 4 weeks up to and
including the day of delivery and 4 weeks following that day,

wy

“A
/ AK UY

CTR TCR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 56 ---
Page |56

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

CONTRACTOR

(ii) in the case of miscarriage - upto 3 weeks from the date of miscarnage.

(i) in the case of delivery - leave pay during maternity leave will be at the rate of the
women's average daily earnings, calculated on total wages earned on the days when full
time work was done during a period of three months immediately preceding the date on
which she gives notice that she expects to be confined or at the rate of Rupee one only a
day whichever is greater.

(ii) in the case of miscarriage - leave pay at the rate of average daily earning calculated on
the total wages earned on the days when full time work was done during a period of
three months immediately preceding the date of such miscarriage.

(3) Conditions for the grant of Maternity Leave:

No maternity leave benefit shall be admissible to a woman unless she has been employed for
a total period of not less than six months immediately preceding the date on which she
proceeds on leave.

(4) The contractor shall maintain a register of Maternity (Benefit) in the Prescribed Form as
shown in appendix -I and [1, and the same shall be kept at the place of work.

Clause 19G

in the event of the contractor(s) committing a default or breach of any of the provisions of the
Central Public Works Department, Contractor's Labour Regulations and Model Rules for the
protection of health and sanitary arrangements for the workers as amended from time to time or
furnishing any information or submitting or filing any statement under the provisions of the above
Regulations and’ Rules which is materially incorrect, he/they shall, without prejudice to any other
liability, pay to the Government a sum as decided by the authority mentioned in Schedule F for
every default, breach or furnishing, making, submitting, filing such materially incorrect statements
and in the event of the contractor(s) defaulting continuously in this respect, the penalty may be
enhanced to Rs.200/- per day for each day of default subject to a maximum of 5 percent of the
estimated cost of the work put to e-Tender. The decision of the Engineer-in-Charge shall be final
and binding on the parties

Should it appear to the Engineer-in-Charge that the contractor(s) is/are not properly observing and
complying with the provisions of the C.P.W.D. Contractor's Labour Regulations and Model Rules
and the provisions of the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act 1970, and the Contract
Labour (R& A) Central Rules 1971, for the protection of health and sanitary arrangements for
work-people employed by the contractor(s) (hereinafter referred as "the said Rules") the Engineer-
in-Charge shall have power to give notice in writing to the contractor(s) requiring that the said
Rules be complied with and the amenities prescribed therein be provided to the work-people within
a reasonable time to be specified in the notice. If the contractor(s) shall fail within the period
specilied in the notice to comply with and/observe the said Rules and to provide the amenities to
the work-people as aforesaid. the Engineer-in-Charge shall have the power to provide the amenities
hereinbefore mentioned at the cost of the contractor(s). The contractor(s) shall erect, make and
maintain at his/ their own expense and as per approved standards all necessary huts and sanitary
arrangements required for his/their work-people on the site in connection with the execution of the
works, and if the same shall not have been erected or constructed, according to approved standards,
the Engineer-in-Charge shall have power to give notice in writing to the contractor(s) requiring that
the said huts and sanitary arrangements be remodelled and/or reconstructed according to approved
standards, and if the contractor(s) shall fail to remodel or reconstruct such huts and sanitary
arrangements according to approved standards within the period specified in the notice, the
Engineer-in-Charge shall have the power to remodel ot reconstruct such huts and sanitary
arrangements according to approved standards at the cost of the contractor(s).

Clause 19H

The contractor(s) shall at his/their own cost arrange appropriate accommodation for his/ their
labour employed which should have proper doors windows, ventilation, water supply, drainage, &
Sanitary installation ete.

Clause 191

The Engineer-in-Charge may require the contractor to dismiss or remove from the site of the work
any person or persons in the contractors' employ upon the work who may be incompetent or
misconduct himself and the contractor shall forthwith comply with such requirements. In respect of
maintenance/repair or renovation works etc. where the labour have an easy access to the individual
houses, the contractor shall issue identity cards to the labourers, whether temporary or permanent
and he shall be responsible for any untoward action on the part of such labour.

é

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

A gh

Y


--- Page 57 ---
Page | 57

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Clause 1)

It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to see that the building under construction is not
occupied by anybody unauthorized during construction, and is handed over to the Engineer-in-
Charge with vacant possession of complete building. If such building though completed is oceupied
illegally, then the Engineer-in-Charge shall have the option to refuse to accept the said
building/buildings in that position. Any delay in acceptance on this account will be treated as the
delay in completion and for such delay, a levy upto 5% of e-Tendered value of work may be
imposed by the Superintending Engineer’ Chief Engineer whose decision shall be final both with
regard to the justification and quantum and be binding on the contractor.

However. the Superintending Engineer’ Chief Engineer, through a notice, may require the
contractor Lo remove the illegal oceupation any time on or before construction and delivery.

Employment of Clause 19K
killed/semi skilled ne z whee .
waaes ne The contractor shall, at all stages of work, deploy skilled/semi skilled tradesmen who are qualified

and possess certificate in particular trade from CPWD Training Institute/Industrial Training
Institute/ National Institute of construction Management and Research (NICMARY National
Academy of Construction, CIDC or any similar reputed and recognized Institute managed/ certified
by State/Central Government. The number of such qualified tradesmen shall not be less than 20%
of total skilled/senu skilled workers required in each trade at any stage of work. The contractor
shall subnut number of man days required in respect of each trade, its scheduling and the list of
qualified tradesmen along with requisite certificate from recognized Institute to Engineer in charge
for approval. Notwithstanding such approval, if the tradesmen are found to have inadequate skill to
execute the work of respective trade, the contractor shall substitute such tradesmen within two days
of written notice from Engineer-in- Charge. Failure on the part of contractor to obtain approval of
Engineer-in-Charge or failure to deploy qualified tradesmen will attract a compensation to be paid
by contractor at the rate specified in schedule 'F' per such tradesman per day. Decision of Engineer
in Charge as to whether particular tradesman possesses requisite skill and amount of compensation
in ease of default shall be final and binding.

Provided always, that the provisions of this clause, shall not be applicable for works with estimated
cost pul to e- Tender being less than Rs, § erores,

For work costing more than Rs. 10 Crores, and upto Rs, 50 Crores, the contractor shall arrange on
site raining as per National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) norms for at least 20% of the
unskilled workers engaged in the project in co-ordination with the CPWD Regional Training
Institute & National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) for certification at the level of
skilled/semi skilled tradesmen.

For work costing more than Rs. 50 Crores, the contractor shall arrange on site training as per
National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) norms for at least 30% of the unskilled worker
engaged in the project in coordination with the CPWD Regional Training Institute & National Skill
Development Corporation (NSDC) for certification at the level of skilled/semi skilled tradesmen.
Ihe cost of such training as stated above shall be born by the Government. The necessary space
and workers shall be provided by the contractor and no claim what so ever shall be entertained.

Contribution of EPF — Clause 19L.

ee The ESI and EPF contributions on the part of employer in respect of this contract shall be paid by
the contractor, These contributions on the part of the employer paid by the contractor shall be
reimbursed by the Engineer-in-charge to the contractor on actual basis, The verification of
deployment labour will be done through biometric attendance system or any other suitable method
by the Engineer in Churge. The applicable and eligible amount of EPF & ESI shall be reimbursed
preferably within 7 days but not later than 30 days of submission of documentary proof of payment
provided same are in order,

Minimum Wages Act) Clause 20

: lied Wi oh ; ; or
a eee The contractor shall comply with all the provisions of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, and

Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, amended from time to time and rules
framed there under and other labour laws affecting contract labour that may be brought into force
from lime to time

Work not to be Clause 21
sublet. Action in cause

af le <aWienty lhe contract shall not be assigned or sublet without the written approval of the Engineer-in-Charge.

And if the contractor shall assign or sublet his contract, or attempt to do so, or become insolvent or
commence any insolvency proceedings or make any composition with his creditors ittempt to do

Pe y a

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 

CONTRACTOR


--- Page 58 ---
Page (38

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Changes in firm's
Constitution to be
intimated

Life Cvele cost

Settlement of
Disputes &
\riitration

CONTRACTOR

so, or if any bribe, gratuity, gift, loan, perquisite, reward or advantage pecuniary or otherwise, shall
either directly or indirectly, be given, promised or offered by the contractor, or any of his servants
or agent to any public officer or person in the employ of Government in any way relating to his
office or employment, or if any such officer or person shall become in any way directly or
indirectly interested in the contract. the Engineer-in-Charge on behalf of the President of India shall
have power to adopt the course specified in Clause 3 hereof in the interest of Government and in
the event of such course being adopted, the consequences specified in the said Clause 3 shall ensue,

Clause 22

All sums payable by way of compensation under any of these conditions shall be considered as
reasonable compensation to be applied to the use of Government without reference to the actual
loss or damage sustained and whether or not any damage shall have been sustained,

Clause 23

Where the contractor is a partnership firm, the previous approval in writing of the Engineer-in-
Charge shall be obtained before any change is made in the constitution of the firm, Where the
contractor is an individual or a Hindu undivided family business concern, such approval as
aforesaid shall likewise be obtained before the contractor enters into any partnership agreement
where under the partnership firm would have the right to carry out the works hereby undertaken by
the contractor. If previous approval as aforesaid is not obtained, the contract shall be deemed to
have been assigned in contravention of Clause 21 hereof and the same action may be taken, and the
same consequences shall ensue as provided in the said Clause 21,

Clause 24

The contractor shall be responsible for safety, quality and soundness of the buildings including
structural elements beyond maintenance period. The contractor shall have obligation to rectify such
defects minimum up to 5 (five) years from the date of completion of work. The defects have to be
rectified within a reasonable time not exceeding forty five days after issue of notice by Engineer-
in- Charge. If contractor does not take corrective action within 45 days, then action for debarring of
the agency shall be taken by the appropriate authority.

Clause 25

I xcept where othenvise provided in the contract, all questions and disputes relating to the meaning
of the specifications, design. drawings and instructions here-in before mentioned and as to the
quality of workmanship or materials used on the work or as to any other question, claim, right,
matter or thing whatsoever in any way arising out of or relating to the contract, designs, drawings.
specifications, estimates, instructions, orders or these conditions or otherwise conceming the works
or the execution or failure to execute the same whether arising during the progress of the work or
after the cancellation, termination, completion or abandonment thereof shall be dealt with as
mentioned hereinafter:

(i) If the contractor considers any work demanded of him to be outside the requirements of
the contract, or disputes any drawings, record or decision given in writing by the
Fngineer-in-Charge or if the Engineer in Charge considers any act or decision of the
contractor on any matter in connection with or arising Out of the contract or carrying out
of the work, to be unacceptable and is disputed, such party shall promptly within 15
days of the arising of the disputes request the Chief Engineer/ CPM, or where there is
no Chief Engineer/CPM, the Additional Director General/Special Director General
(CE/ADG/SDG) who shall refer the disputes to Dispute Reressal Committee (DRC)
within 15 days along with a list of disputes with amounts claimed if any in respect of
each such dispute. The Dispute Redressal Committee (DRC) give its decision within a
period of 60 days extendable by 30 days by consent of both the parties from the receipt
of reference from CE/CPM/ADG/SDG. The constitution of Dispute Redressal
Committee (DRC) shall be as indicated in Schedule 'P. Provided that no party shall be
represented belore the Dispute Redressal Committee by an advocate/legal counsel etc.

rhe DRC will submit its decision to the concerned ADG/SDG for acceptance. ADG/ SDG in a
time limit of 30 days from receipt of DRC decision will convey acceptance or otherwise on the
said decision if the Dispute Redressal Committee (DRC) fails to give its decision within the
aforesaid period or the ADG/SDG fails to give his acceptance in the aforesaid time limit or any
party is dissatisfied with the decision of Dispute Redressal Committee (DRC) ADG/ SDG
theneither party may within a period of 30 days from the receipt of the decision of Dispute
Redressal Committee (DRC). ADG/ SDG or on expiry of aforesaid the time limits available to
DRC) ADG/SDG may give notice to the Chief Engineer/CPM, CPWD. in charge of the work or if

there be nu Chiel

A,

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 59 ---
Pa aN | 59

Standard Single Bid Documents tor Electrical Works

Contractor to

indemnify Govt.

against Patent
Rights

CONTRACTOR

Engineer’ CPM, the Additional Director General /Special Director General of the concerned region
of CPWD or if there be no Additional Director General/ Special Director General, the Director
General, CPWD for appointment of arbitrator on prescribed proforma as per Appendix XVII under
intimation to the other party

It is a term of contract that each party invoking arbitration must exhaust the aforesaid mechanism
of settlement of claims/disputes prior to invoking arbitration,

The CE/CPM/ADG/ SDG shall in such case appoint the sole arbitrator or one of the three
arbitrators as the case may be within 30 days of receipt of such a request and refer such disputes to
arbitration. Wherever the Arbitral Tribunal consists of three Arbitrators, the contractor shall
appoint one arbitrator within 30 days of making request for arbitration or of receipt of request by
Engineer-in-charge to CE/ADG/ SDG /DG for appointment of arbitrator, as the case may be, and
two appointed arbitrators shall appoint the third arbitrator who shall act as the Presiding Arbitrator.

In the event of
(a) A party fails to appoint the second Arbitrator, or

(b) The two appointed Arbitrators fail to appoint the Presiding Arbitrator, then the
Director General, CPWD shall appoint the second or Presiding Arbitrator as the
case may be.

(ii) Disputes or difference shall be referred for adjudication through arbitration by a Tribunal
having sole arbitrator where claimed amount is Rs. 20 Crore or less. Where claimed Value
is more than Rs. 20 Crore, Tribunal shall consist of three Arbitrators as above. The
requirements of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (26 of 1996) and any further
stilulory modification or re-enactment thereof and the rules made there under and for the
time being in force shall be applicable.

{i is a term of this contract that the party invoking arbitration shall give a list of disputes with
amounts claimed, if any, in respect of each such dispute along with the notice for appointment of
arbitrator and giving reference to the decision of the ADG/ SDG on the finding / recommendation of
DRC.

It is also a term of this contract that member(s) of the Arbitration Tribunal shall be a Graduate
ngineer with experience in handling public works engineering contracts, and further he shall have
earlier worked at a level not lower than Chief Engineer’ equivalent (i.e. Joint Secretary level of
Government of India). This shall be treated as a mandatory qualification to be appointed as
arbitrator,

Parties, before or at the time of appointment of Arbitral Tribunal may agree in writing for fast track
arbitration as per the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (26 of 1996) as amended in 2015,

Subject to provision in the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (26 of 1996) as amended in 2015
whereby the counter claims if any can be directly filed before the arbitrator without any requirement
of reference by the appointing authority, The arbitrator shall adjudicate on only such disputes as are
referred to hin) by the appointing authority and give separate award against each dispute and claim
relerred to him and in all cases where the total amount of the claims by any party exceeds Rs.
1,00,000/-, the arbitrator shall give reasons for the award.

It is also a term of the contract that fees payable to arbitral tribunal shal! be as approved by DG,
CPWD, OM issued vide no.2/2006/SE(TLCYCSQ /137 dated 19-11-2019 (or its latest amendment
as approved by DG, CPWD). This fee shall be shared equally by parties.

The place of arbitration shall be as mentioned in Schedule F. In case there is no mention of place of
arbitration, the arbitral tribunal shall determine the place of arbitration.

The venue of the arbitration shall be such place as may be fixed by the Arbitral Tribunal in
consultation with both the parties. Failing any such agreement, then the Arbitral Tribunal shall
deenle the venue

Jurisdiction of courts: the High Courts of Tripura shall have exclusive jurisdiction in all
matters arising under this contract.

Clause 26

The contractor shall fully indemnify and keep indemnified the President of India against any
action, claim or proceeding relating to infringement or use of any patent or design or any alleged
patent or design rights and shall pay any royalties which may be payable in respect of any article or
part thereof included in the contract. In the event of any claims made under or action brought
digainst Government in respect oF any such matters as aforesaid, the contractor shall be immediately
notified thervot and the contractor shall be at liberty, at his own expense, to settle any dispute or to
conduct any litigation that may arise there from, provided that the contractor shall not be liable to
indemnify the President of India if the infringement of the patent or design or any

yx

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 60 ---
Page |60

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Lumpsum Provisions
in E- Tender

Action where no
Specifications are
Specified

Withholding and lien
in respect of sum due
from Contractor

CONTRACTOR

design right is the direct result of an order passed by the Engineer-in-Charge in this behalf.

Clause 27

When the estimate on which a e-Tender is made includes lump sum in respect of parts of the work,
the contractor shall be entitled to payment in respect of the items of work involved or the part of
the work in question at the same rates as are payable under this contract for such items, or if the
part of the work in question is not, in the opinion of the Engineer-in-Charge payable of
measurement, the Engineer-in-Charge may at his discretion pay the lump-sum amount entered in
the estimate, and the certificate in writing of the Engineer-in-Charge shall be final and conclusive
against the contractor with regard to any sum or sums payable to him under the provisions of the
clause,

Clause 28

in the case of any class of work for which there is no such specifications as referred to in Clause
11. such work shall be carried out in accordance with the Bureau of Indian Standards
Specifications. In case there are no such specifications in Bureau of Indian Standards, the work
shall be carried out as per manufacturers’ specifications, if not available then as per state District
Specifications. In case there are no such specifications as required above, the work shall be carried
out in all respects in accordance with the instructions and requirements of the Engineer-in-Charge.

Clause 29

(i) Whenever any claim or claims for payment of a sum of money arises out of or under the
contract or against the contractor, the Engineer-in-Charge or the Government shall be
entitled to withhold and also have a lien to retain such sum or sums in whole or in part
from the security, if any deposited by the contractor and for the purpose aforesaid, the
Engineer-in-Charge or the Government shall be entitled to withhold the security
deposit, if any. furnished as the case may be and also have a lien over the same pending
finalization or adjudication of any such claim. In the event of the security being
insufficient to cover the claimed amount or amounts or if no security has been taken
from the contractor, the Engineer-in-Charge or the Government shall be entitled to
withhold and have a lien to retain to the extent of such claimed amount or amounts
referred to above, from any sum or sums found payable or which may at any time
thereafter become payable to the contractor under the same contract or any other
contract with the Engineer-in-Charge of the Government or any contracting person
through the Engineer-in-Charge pending finalization of adjudication of any such claim.

jt is an agreed term of the contract that the sum of money or moneys so withheld or
retained under the lien referred to above by the Engineer-in-Charge or Government will
be kept withheld or retained as such by the Engineer-in-Charge or Government till the
claim arising out of or under the contract is determined by the arbitrator(if the contract
is governed by the arbitration clause) by the competent court, as the case may be and
that the contractor will have no claim for interest or damages whatsoever on any
account in respect of such withholding or retention under the lien referred to above and
duly notified as such to the contractor. For the purpose of this clause, where the
contractor is a partnership firm or a limited company, the Engineer-in-Charge or the
Government shall be entitled to withhold and also have a lien to retain towards such
claimed amount or amounts in whole or in part from any sum found payable to any
partner/limited company as the case may be, whether in his individual capacity or
otherwise.

(ii) Government shall have the right to cause an audit and technical examination of the
works and the final bills of the contractor including all supporting vouchers, abstract,
etc.. to be made afier payment of the final bill and if as a result of such audit and
technical examination any sum is found to have been overpaid in respect of any work
done by the contractor under the contract or any work claimed to have been done by
him under the contract and found not to have been executed, the contractor shall be
liable to refund the amount of over-payment and it shall be lawful for Government to
recover the same from him in the manner prescribed in sub-clause (i) of this clause or in
any other manner legally permissible; and if it is found that the contractor was paid less
than what was due to him under the contract in respect of any work executed by him
under it, the amount of such under payment shall be duly paid by Government to the
contractor, without any interest thereon whatsoever,

Provided that the Government shall not be entitled to recover any sum overpaid, nor the
contractor shall be entitled to payment of any sum paid short where such payment has
been agreed upon between the Superintending Engineer or Executive Engineer on the

y RU, Q

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 61 ---
Page |61

Standard Single Bid Documents tor Electrical Works

Lien in respect of
claims in other
Contracts

Water for Works

Hire of Plant &
Machinery

Employment of
lechnical Staff and
employees

CONTRACTOR

one hand and the contractor on the other under any term of the contract permitting
payment for work after assessment by the Superintending Engineer or the Executive
Engineer.

Clause 294

Any sum of money due and payable to the contractor (including the security deposit returnable to
him) under the contract may be withheld or retained by way of lien by the Engineer-in-Charge or
the Government or any other contracting person or persons through Engineer-in-Charge against any
claim of the Engineer-in-Charge or Government or such other person or persons in respect of
payment of a sum of money arising out of or under any other contract made by the contractor with
the Engineer- in-Charge or the Government or with such other person or persons. It is an agreed
term of the contract that the sum ef money so withheld or retained under this clause by the
Engineer-in-Charge or the Government will be kept withheld or retained as such by the Engineer-
in-Charge or the Government or till his claim arising out of the same contract or any other contract
is either mutually settled or determined by the arbitration clause or by the competent court, as the
case may be and that the contractor shall have no claim for interest or damages whatsoever on this
avcount or on any other ground in respect of any sum of money withheld or retained under this
clause and duly notified as such to the contractor.

Clause 30

The contractor(s) shall make his/their own arrangements for water required for the work and
nothing extra will be paid for the same. This will be subject to the following conditions,

(i) That the water used by the contractor(s) shall be fit for construction purposes to the
satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge.

(ii) lhe Engineer-in-Charge shall make alternative arrangements for supply of water at the
risk and cost of contractor(s) if the arrangements made by the contractor(s) for
procurement of water are in the opinion of the Engineer-in- C harge, unsatisfactory.

Clause 3]

The contractor shall arrange at his own expense all tools, plant. machinery and equipment
(hereinafter referred to as T&P) required for execution of the work

Clause 32
Contractors Superintendence. Supervision. Technical Staff & Employees

(i) The contractor shall provide all necessary superintendence during execution of the work
and all along thereafier as may be necessary for proper fulfilling of the obligations
under the contract.

The contractor shall immediately after receiving letter of acceptance of the e-Tender
and before commencement of the work, intimate in writing to the Engineer-in-Charge,
the name(s), qualifications, experience. age, address(s) and other particulars along with
certificates. of the principal technical representative to be in charge of the work and
other technical representative(s) who will be supervising the work. Minimum
requirement of such technical representative(s) and their qualifications and experience
shall not be lower than specified in Schedule 'F’, Even of the contractor (or partner(s) in
case of fimy company)is himself / herself an Engineers, it is necessary on the part of
the contractor to employ principal technical representative / technical representative (s)
as per stipulation in Schedule 'F

The Engineer-in-Charge shall within 3 days of receipt of such communication intimate
in writing his approval or otherwise of such a representative(s) to the contractor. Any
such approval may at any time be withdrawn and in case of such withdrawal, the
contractor shall appoint another such representative(s) according to the provisions of
this clause. Decision of the e-Tender accepting authority shall be final and binding on
the contractor in this respect. Such a principal technical representative and other
technical representative(s) shall be appointed by the contractor soon after receipt of the
approval from Engineer-in-charge and shall be available at site before start of work.

All the provisions applicable to the principal technical representative under the Clause
will also be applicable to other technical representative(s) The principal technical
representative and other technical representative(s) shall be present at the site of work
for supervision at all times when any construction activity is in progress and also
present himselffthemselves, as required, to the keg his

JA, NA | gp
\G

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 62 ---
Page |62

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Levy/Taxes payable
by Contractor

Conditions for
reimbursement of
levy/taxes if levied
after receipt of E-
Tender

CONTRACTOR

designated representative to take instructions. Instructions given to the principal
technical representative or other technical representative(s) shall be deemed to have the
same force as if these have been given to the contractor, The principal technical
representative and other technical representative(s) shall be actually available at site
fully during all stages of execution of work, during recording/checking/test checking of
measurements of works and whenever so required by the Engineer-in-Charge and shall
also note down instructions conveyed by the Engineer-in-Charge or his designated
representative(s) in the site order book and shall affix his/their signature in token of
noting down the instructions and in token of acceptance of measurements/checked
measurements/ test checked measurements. The representative(s) shall not look after
any other work, Substitutes. duly approved by Engineer-in-Charge of the work in
similar manner as aforesaid shall be provided in event of absence of any of the
representative(s) by more than two days.

if the Engineer-in-Charge, whose decision in this respect is final and binding on the
contractor, is convinced that no such technical representative(s) is/are effectively
appointed or is/are effectively attending or fulfilling the provision of this clause, a
recovery (non refundable) shall be effected from the contractor as specified in Schedule
"fF and the decision of the Engineer-In-Charge as recorded in the site order book and
measurement recorded checked/test checked in Measurement Books shall be final and
binding on the contractor, Further if the contractor fails to appoint suitable technical
Principal technical representative and/or other technical representative(s) and if such
appointed persons are not effectively present or are absent by more than two days
without duly approved substitute or do not discharge their responsibilities satisfactorily,
the Engineer-in-Charge shall have full powers to suspend the execution of the work
until such date as suitable other technical representative(s) is/are appointed and the
contractor shall be held responsible for the delay so caused to the work, The contractor
shall submit a certificate of employment of the technical representative(s) (in the form
of copy of Form-16 or CPF deduction issued to the Engineers employed by him) along
with every on account bill/ final bill and shall produce evidence if at any time so
required by the Engineer-in-Charge.

(ii) The contractor shall provide and employ on the site only such technical assistants as are
skilled and experienced in their respective fields and such foremen and supervisory
staff as are competent to give proper supervision to the work.

The contractor shall provide and employ skilled, semiskilled and unskilled labour as is
necessary for proper and timely execution of the work.

The Engineer-in-Charge shall be at liberty to object to and require the contractor to
remove from the works any person who in his opinion misconduets himself, or is
incompetent or negligent in the performance of his duties or whose employment is
otherwise considered by the Engineer-in-Charge to be undesirable. Such person shall
not be employed again at works site without the written permission of the Engineer-in-
Charge and the persons so removed shall be replaced as soon as possible by competent
substitutes.

Clause 33

(i) GST, Building and other Construction Workers Welfare Cess or any other tax, levy or
Cess in respect of input for or output by this contract shall be payable by the contractor
and Government shall not entertain any claim whatsoever in this respect except as
provided under Clause 38

(ii) The contractor shall deposit royalty and obtain necessary permit for supply of the red
bajri, stone, kankar, ete. from local authorities.

If pursuant to or under any law, notification or order any royalty, cess or the like becomes payable
by the Government of India and does not any time become payable by the contractor to the State
jovernment, Local authorities in respect of any material used by the contractor in the works, then
in such a case, it shall be lawful to the Goverment of India and it will have the right and be
entitled to recover the amount paid in the cireumstances as aforesaid from dues of the contractor.

Clause 34

(i) All e-Tendered rates shall be inclusive of any tax, levy or cess applicable on last
stipulated date of receipt of e-Tender including extension if any. No adjustment i.e.
increase or decréase shall be made for any variation in the rate of GST, Building and
Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess or any tax, levy or cess applicable on inputs.

My. #£

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 63 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Termination of
Contract on death of
contractor

If relative working in
CPWD then the
contractor not
allowed to e- lender

No Gazetted
Engineer to work as
Contractor within
one vear of
retirement

CONTRACTOR

However. effeet of variation in rates of GST or Building and Other Construction Workers
Welfare Cess or imposition or repeal of any other tax, levy or cess applicable on output of
the works contract shall be adjusted on either side, increase or decrease.

Provided further that for Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess or any
tax (other than GST), levy or cess varied or imposed after the last date of receipt of e-
Tender including extension if any, any increase shall be reimbursed to the contractor only
if the contractor necessarily and properly pays such increased amount of taxes/levies/cess.

Provided further that such increase including GST shall not be made in the extended
period of contract for which the contractor alone is responsible for delay as determined by
authority for extension of time under Clause § in Schedule F.

(ii) The contractor shall keep necessary books of accounts and other documents for the
purpose of this condition as may be necessary and shall allow inspection of the same by a
duly authorized representative of the Government and/or the Engineer-in-Charge and
shall also furnish such other information/document as the Engineer-in-Charge may
require from time to time.

(iii) The contractor shall, within a period of 30 days of the imposition of any such further tax
or levy or cess, or variation or repeal of such tax or levy or cess give a written notice
thereof to the Engineer-in-charge that the same is given pursuant to this condition,
together with all necessary information relating thereto.

Clause 35

Without prejudice to any of the rights or remedies under this contract, if the contractor dies, the
Engineer in Charge on behalf of the President of India shall have the option of terminating the
contract without levy compensation to the contractor.

Clause 36

The contractor shall not be permitted to e-Tender for works in the CPWD cirele(Division in case
OF contractors Of Horticulture/Nursery categories) responsible for award and execution of contracts
in which his near relative is posted as Divisional Accountant or as an officer in any capacity
between the grades of the Superintending Engineer and Junior Engineer (both inclusive). He shall
also intimate the names of persons who are working with him in any capacity or are subsequently
employed by him and who are near relatives to any Gazetted Officer in the C.P.W.D. or in the
Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Any breach of this condition by the contractor would
render him liable to be removed from the approved list of contractors of this Department. If
however the contractor is registered in any other department, he shall be debarred from e-
lendering in CPWD for ary breach of this condition.

NOTI: By the term “near relatives" is meant wife, husband. parents and grandparents, children and
grind children, brothers and sisters, uncles, aunts and cousins and their corresponding in-laws.

Clause 37

No engineer of gazetted rank or other gazetted officer employed in engineering or administrative
duties in an engineering department of the Government of India shall work as a contractor or
employee of a contractor for a period of one year after his retirement from government service
without the previous permission of Government of India in writing, This contract is liable to be
cancelled if either the contractor or any of his employees is found at any time to be such a person
who had not obtained the permission of Government of India as aforesaid, before submission of the
¢- Tender or engagement in the contractor's service, as the case may be.

Cliuse 38

(i) After completion of the work and also at any intermediate stage in the event of Non
reconciliation of materials issued theoretical quantity of materials used in the work shall
be calculated on the basis and method given hereunder;

(4) Quantity of cement & bitumen shall be calculated on the basis of quantity of cement
& bitumen required for different items of work as shown in the Schedule of Rates
mentioned in Schedule 'F, In ease any item is executed for which standard
constants for the consumption of cement or bitumen are not available in the above
mentioned schedule/statement or cannot be derived from the same shall be
calculated on the basis of standard formula to be laid down by the Engineer-in-
Charge.

(b) Theoretical quantity of steel reinforcement or structural steel sectio shall be taken

U

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

  

 


--- Page 64 ---
Page | 64

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Compensation
during warlike
situations

Apprentices Act
provisions to be
complied with

Release of Security
deposit after labour
clearance

CONTRACTOR

as the quantity required as per design or as authorized by Engineer-in-Charge,
including authorized lappages, chairs etc. plus 3% wastage due to cutting into
pieces, such theoretical quantity being determined and compared with the actual,
each diameter wise, section wise and category wise separately,

(c) Theoretical quantity of G.l. & C1, or other pipes, conduits, wires and cables, pig
lead and G.1./M.S. sheets shall be taken as quantity actually required and measured
plus 5% for wastage due to cutting into pieces (except in the case of G.L/M.S.
sheets it shall be 10%), such determination & comparison being made diameter
wise & category wise.

(d) For any other material as per actual requirements.

Over the theoretical quantities of materials so computed a variation shall be allowed
as specified in Schedule 'F'Fornon scheduled items, the decision of the
Superintending Engineer CE regarding theoretical quantities of materials which
should have been actually used, shall be final and binding on the contractor.
tii) Ihe said action under this clause is without prejudice to the right of the Government to
take action against the contractor under any other conditions of contract for not doing the
work according to the prescribed specifications.

Clause 39

The work (whether fully constructed or not) and all materials, machines, tools and plants,
scaffolding, temporary buildings and other things connected therewith shall be at the risk of the
contractor until the work has been delivered to the Engineer-in-Charge and a certificate from him
io that effect obtained. In the event of the work or any materials properly brought to the site for
incorperation in the work being damaged or destroyed in consequence of hostilities or warlike
operation. the contractor shall when ordered (in writing) by the Engineer-in-Charge to remove any
debris from the site, collect and properly stack or remove in store all serviceable materials salvaged
from the damaged work and shall be paid at the contract rates in accordance with the provision of
this agreement for the work of clearing the site of debris, stacking or removal of serviceable
material and for reconstruction of all works ordered by the Engineer-in-Charge, such payments
being in addition to compensation upto the value of the work originally executed before being
damaged or destroyed and not paid for. In case of works damaged or destroyed but not already
measured and paid for, the compensation shall be assessed by the Divisional Officer
uptoRs.2.00.000/- and by the next higher officer concerned for a higher amount, The contractor
shall be paid for the damages/destruction suffered and for restoring the material at the rate based on
analysis of cates e- fendered for in accordance with the provision of the contract. The certificate of
the Engineer-in-Charge regarding the quality and quantity of materials and the purpose for which
they were collected shall be final and binding on all parties to this contract.

Provided always that no compensation shall be payable for any loss in consequence of hostilities or
warlike operations (a) unless the contractor had taken all such precautions against air raid as are
deemed necessary by the A.R.P. (Air Raid Precaution) Officers or the Engineer-in-Charge (b) for
any material etc. not on the site of the work or for any tools, plant, machinery, scaffolding,
temporary building and other things not intended for the work. In the event of the contractor having
lo carry out reconstruction as aforesaid, he shall be allowed such extension of time for its
completion as is considered reasonable by the Divisional Officer,

Clause 40

The contractor shall comply with the provisions of the Apprentices Act, 1961 and the rules and
orders issued there under from time to time. If he fails to do so, his failure will be a breach of the
contract and the Superintending Engineer may, in his discretion, cancel the contract. The contractor
shall also be liable for any pecuniary liability arising on account of any violation by him of the
provisions of the said Act.

Clause 41

Release of Security Deposit of the work shall not be refunded till the contractor produces a
clearance certificate after labour certificate from the Labour Officer. As soon as the work is
virtually complete the contractor shall apply for the clearance certificate to the Labour Officer
under intimation to the Engineer-in-Charge. The Engineer-in-Charge, on receipt of the said
communication, shall write to the Labour Officer to intimate if any complaint is pending against
the contractor in respect of the work. If no complaint is pending, on record till after 3 months after
completion of the work and/or no communication is received from the Labour Officer to this effect
till six months after the date of completion, it will be deemed to have received the clearance
certificate and the Security Deposit will be released if otherwise due.

NOTE: Please read authority, NIT Agartala instead of CE/ADG/SDG/DG, CPWD

Ary

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 65 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

INTEGRITY PACT

wT

y lor the work “Supply and installation of electrification works in the Reaction
Prige. lab (CRE-301) under DST sponsored research project of Bios | ngineering Deptt. at NIT Agartala..”

Dear Sir,

It ts here by declared that NIT Agartala is committed to follow the principle of transparency, equity and competitiveness in
public procurement

Inviting F-Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made on the condition that the Bidder will sign the
ry Agrecinent. which is an integral part of e-Tender/bid documents. failing which the e-Tenderer/bidder will stand

disqualitied trom the e- Tendering process and the bid of the bidder would be summarily rejected,
| £ ,

This declaration shall form part and parcel of the Integrity Agreement and signing of the same shall be deemed as acceptance
and signing of the Integrity Agreement on behalf of the NIT Agartala

Yours faithfully

For and on behalf of NIT
Agartala

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 66 ---
Page |66

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

INTEGRITY PACT
To,
Registrar,

Sub: Submission of E-Tender for the work of “Supply and installation of electrification works in the Reaction Engg. lab
(CRF-301) under DST sponsored research project of Bio- Engineering Deptt, at NIT Agartala..”.

Dear Sir.

/We acknowledge that NIT Agartala is committed to follow the principles thereof as enumerated in the Integrity Agreement
enclosed with the e-Tender/bid document.

I/We agree that the Notice Inviting E-Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made on the condition that I/We will sign the
enclosed integrity Agreement. which is an integral part of e-Tender documents, failing which I/We will stand disqualified
from the e-Tendering process. I/We acknowledge that THE MAKING OF THE BID SHALL BE REGARDED AS AN
UNCONDITIONAL AND ABSOLUTE ACCEPTANCE of this condition of the NIT.

I/We confirm acceptance and compliance with the Integrity Agreement in letter and spirit and further agree that execution of
the said Integrity Agreement shall be separate and distinct from the main contract, which will come into existence when e-
Tender/bid is finally accepted by NIT Agartala, I/We acknowledge and accept the duration of the Integrity Agreement, which
shall be in the line with Article | of the enclosed Integrity Agreement.

1/We acknowledge that in the event of my/our failure to sign and accept the Integrity Agreement, while submitting the e-
Tender/bid, NIT Agartala shall have unqualified, absolute and unfettered right to disqualify the e-Tenderer/bidder and reject
the ¢-Tender/bid is accordance with terms and conditions of the e-Tender/ bid.

Yours faithfully

(Duly authorized signatory of the Bidder)

CONTRACIOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 67 ---
Page |67

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

To be signed by the bidder and same signatory competent / authorized to sign the relevant contract on behalf
INTEGRITY AGREEMENT
[his Inteprity Agreement is made at on this cones GEV -BF censssesrese2 Oloasse
BETWEEN
National Institute of Technology Agartala.
CPW DS sssicessziceiessieis erensininisinncstastsnndtssieicadesccntcnucniiteus lucid aimecieniaae LCST ER ce tented as ths
(Address)

‘Prineipal/Ow ner’, which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include its successorsand
pennitted Ussiis)

AND

(Name and Address of the Individual/firm/Company)
through ’ vias si vous (Hereinafter referred to as the
(Details of duly authorized signatory)

“Bidder/Contractor” and which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include its successors
and permitted assigns) F

Preamble

WHEREAS the Principal / Owner has floated the E-Teénder (NIT No ...cccccccsssssecoseessesseeey soeeseeeneeoe, ) (hereinafter referred to as
-Tender/ Bid”) and intends to award. under laid down organizational procedure, contract for... ...... 0.0.0.0 0000000

 

(Name of work)

hereinafter referred to as the “Contract”.

\ND WHEREAS the Principal/Owner values full compliance with all relevant laws of the land, rules, regulations,
economic use of resources and of faimess/transpareney in its relation with its Bidder(s) and Contractor(s),

AND WHEREAS to meet the purpose aforesaid both the parties have agreed to enter into this Integrity Agreement
(hereinalter referred (0 as "Integrity Pact" or "Pact"'), the terms and conditions of which shall also be read as integral part and

parcel of the E-Tender/Bid documents and Contract between the parties.

NOW. THEREFORE. in consideration of mutual covenants contained in this Pact, the parties hereby agree as follows and
this Pact witnesses as under:

Article 1: Commitment of the Principal/Owner

(1) The Prneipal/Owner commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption and to observe the following
principles:

(a) No employee of the Principal/Owner, personally or through any of his/her family members, will in connection with
the E-Tender, or the execution of the Contract, demand, take a promise for or accept, for self or third person, any

material or immaterial benefit which the person is not legally entitled to.

(b) The Principal/Owner will. during the E-Tender process, treat all Bidder(s) with equity and reason. The

Principal Owner will, in particular, before and during the E-Tender process. provide to all eel
\ \ Y wy
( \
/ BU, | 5

CONT RREDON For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 68 ---
Page |68
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

information and will not provide to any Bidder(s) confidential / additional information through which the Bidder(s)
could oblain an advantage in relation to the E-Tender process or the Contract execution,

ic) The Principal/Owner shall endeavour to exclude from the E-Tender process any person, whose conduct in the past
has been of biased nature.

(2) If the Principal/Owner obtains information on the conduct of any of its employees which is a criminal offence under
the Indian Penal code (IPC)/Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (PC Act) or is in violation of the principles herein
mentioned or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard, the Principal/Owner will inform the Chief Vigilance
Officer and in addition can also initiate disciplinary actions as per its internal laid down policies and procedures.

Article 2: Commitment of the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)

|. It is required that each Bidder/Contractor (including their respective officers, employees and agents) adhere to the
highest ethical standards, and report to the Government / Department all suspected acts of fraud or corruption or
Coercion or Collusion of which it has knowledge or becomes aware, during the e-Tendering process and throughout
the negotiation or award of a contract,

2 The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) commits himself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption, He commits himself
to observe the following principles during his participation in the E-Tender process and during the Contract execution:

(a) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm, offer, promise or give to any of
the Principal/Owner’s employees involved in the E-Tender process or execution of the Contract or to any third
person any material or other benefit which he/she is not legally entitled to, in order to obtain in exchange any
advantage of any kind whatsoever during the E-Tender process or during the execution of the Contract.

(b) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not enter with other Bidder(s) into any undisclosed agreement or understanding,
whether formal or informal. This applies in particular to prices, specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts,
submission or non-submission of bids or any other actions to restrict competitiveness or to cartelize in the bidding
Process

(c) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not commit any offence under the relevant IPC/PC Act, Further the Bidder(s)/
Contract(s) will not use improperly, (for the purpose of competition or personal gain), or pass on to others, any
information or documents provided by the Principal/Owner as part of the business relationship, regarding plans,
technical proposals and business details, including information contained or transmitted electronically.

(d) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of foreign origin shall disclose the names and addresses of agents/ representatives in
india, if any. Similarly Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of Indian Nationality shall disclose names and addresses of foreign
ayents/representatives, if any. Either the Indian agent on behalf of the foreign principal or the foreign principal
directly could bid in a e-Tender but not both, Further. in cases where an agent participate in a e-Tender on behalf of
one tanufacturer. he shall not be allowed to quote on behalf of another manufacturer along with the first
manufacturer in a subsequent/parallel e~Tender for the same item.

(e) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will, when presenting his bid, disclose any and all payments he has made, is
committed to or intends to make to agents, brokers or any other intermediaries in connection with the award of the
Contract.

3. The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not instigate third persons to commit offences outlined above or be an accessory to
such offences.

4. The Bidderis)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm indulge in fraudulent practice means
a willful misrepresentation or omission of facts or submission of fake/forged documents in order to induce public
official to act in reliance thereof, with the purpose of obtaining unjust advantage by or causing damage to justified
interest of others and/or to influence the procurement process to the detriment of the Government interests.

5. The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm use Coercive Practices (means the act
of obtaining something. compelling an action or influencing a decision through intimidation, threat or the use of force
directly or indireetly. where potential or actual injury may befall upon a person, his/ her reputation or property to
influence their participation in the e- Tendering process),

Article 3: Consequences of Breach

Without prejudice to any rights that may be available to the Principal/Owner under law or the Contract or its established
policies and laid down procedures, the Principal/Owner shall have the following rights in case of breach of this Integrity Pact

p  . a ge

INTRACTO
ot ano For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 69 ---
Page |69

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

by the Bilder(s/Contractar(s) and ithe Bidder’ Contractor accepts and undertakes to respect and uphold the
Principal/Owner’s absolute right:

|. If the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s), either before award or during execution of Contract has committed a transgression
through a violation of Article 2 above or in any other form, such as to put his reliability or credibility in question, the
Principal/Owner after giving 14 days notice to the contractor shall have powers to disqualify the
Bidder(s )/Contractor(s) from the E-Tender process or terminate/determine the Contract, if already executed or exclude
the Bidder/Contractor from future contract award processes. The imposition and duration of the exclusion will be
determined by the severity of transgression and determined by the Principal/Owner. Such exclusion may be forever or
fora limited period as decided by the Principal/Owner

2. Forfeiture of EMD/Performanee Guarantee/Security Deposit: If the Principal/Owner has disqualified the Bidder(s)
from the E-Tender process prior to the award of the Contract or terminated/determined the Contract or has accrued the
right to terminate/determine the Contract according to Article 3(1), the Principal/Owner apart from exercising any legal
rights that may have accrued to the Principal/Owner, may in its considered opinion forfeit the entire amount of Earnest
Money Deposit, Performance Guarantee and Security Deposit of the Bidder/Contractor.

3. Criminal Liability: If the Principal/Owner obtains knowledge of conduct of a Bidder or Contractor, or of an employee
or a representative or an associate of a Bidder or Contractor which constitutes corruption within the meaning of IPC
Velo or the Principal/Owner has substantive suspicion in this regard, the Principal/Owner will inform the same to law
enlorging agencies lor further investigation

Article 4: Previous Transgression

|. The Bidder declares that no previous transgressions occurred in the last 5 years with any other Company in any country
confirming to the anticorruption approach or with Central Government or State Government or any other Central/State
Public Sector Enterprises in India that could justify his exclusion from the E-Tender process.

2. Ihthe Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be disqualified from the E-Tender process or action can

he taken for banning of business dealings! holiday listing of the Bidder/Contractor as deemed fit: by the Principal/

Owner ‘

to

I! the Bidder/Contractor can prove that he has resorted / recouped the damage caused by him and has installed a
Suitable corruption prevention system, the Principal/Owner may, at its own discretion, revoke the exclusion
prematurely,

Article 5: Equal Treatment of all Bidders/C ontractors/Subcontractors

I Ihe Bidders/Contractor(s) undertake(s) to demand from all subcontractors a commitment in conformity with this
Integrity Poet The Bidder/Contractor shall be responsible for any violation(s) of the principles laid down in this
igreement/Pact by any of its Subcontractors/sub-vendors.

2. The Principal/Owner will enter into Pacts on identical terms as this one with all Bidders and Contractors.

3. The Principal/Owner will disqualify Bidders, who do not submit, the duly signed Pact between the Principal/ Owner
and the bidder, along with the E-Tender or violate its provisions at any stage of the E-Tender process, from the E-
Tender process

Article 6- Duration of the Pact

his Pact begins when both the parties have legally signed it, It expires for the Contractor/Vendor 12 months after the
completion of work under the contract or till the continuation of defect liability period, whichever is more and for all other
bidders, till the Contract has been awarded,

Ifany claim is made/lodged during the time. the same shall be binding and continue to be valid despite the lapse of this Pacts
as specified above, unless it is discharged/determined by the Competent Authority, CPWD.

Article 7- Other Provisions

I. This Pact is subject to Indian Law, place of performance and jurisdiction is the Head quarters of the Division of the
Principal/Owner, who has floated the E-Tender.

2. Changes and supplements need to be made in writing, Side agreements have not been made.

 

{A \ Q-

s ae Bt)

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 70 ---
Page |70

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

3. If the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this Pact must be signed by all the partners or by one or more partner
holding power of attomey signed by all partners and consortium members. In case of a Company, the Pact must be
signed by a representative duly authorized by board resolution,

| Should one or several provisions of this Pact tum out to be invalid; the remainder of this Pact remains valid. In this
case, the parties will strive to come to an agreement to their original intensions.

5. {tis agreed term and condition that any dispute or difference arising between the parties with regard to the terms of this
Integrity Agreement / Pact, any action taken by the Owner/Principal in accordance with this Integrity Agreement/ Pact
or interpretation thereof shall not be subject to arbitration.

Article 8- Legal and Prior Rights

All rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be in addition to all the other legal rights and remedies belonging to such
parties under the Contract and/or law and the same shall be deemed to be cumulative and not alternative to such legal rights
and remedies aforesaid. For the sake of brevity, both the Parties agree that this Integrity Pact will have precedence over the
E-Tender/Contact documents with regard any of the provisions covered under this Integrity Pact.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed and executed this Integrity Pact at the place and date first above
mentioned in the presence of following witnesses:

(for andon behallot Principal/Owner)

(For and on behalf of Bidder/Contractor) ;

WITNESSES

(signature, name and address)

(signature, name and address)

Place:

Dated

  

A a

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 71 ---
Page |71

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Appendix "X'

LIsSt OF ACTS AND OMISSONS FOR WHICH FINES CAN BE IMPOSED

Inacvordance with rule 7(v) of the CPWD Contractor's Labour Regulations to be
displayed prominently at the site of work both in English and local Language.

|. Wilful insubordination or disobedience, whether alone or in combination with other.

2, Theft fraud or dishonesty in connection with the contractors beside a business or property of NIT Agartala.

Taking or giving bribes or any illegal gratifications
1. Habitual lave attendance
Drunkenness lehting, cotous or disorderly or indifferent behaviour
6, Habitual negligence
Smoking near or around the area where combustible or other materials are locked
§. Habitual indiscipline.
9, Causing damage to work in the progress or to property of the CPWD or of the

contractor

 

Hl. Maliiwering or slowing down work

|2, Giving of false information regarding name, age father’s name, etc

13. Habitual loss of wage cards supplied by the employers.

14. Unauthorised use of employer's property of manufacturing or making of unauthorised
particles at the work place.

15. Bad workmanship in construction and maintenance by skilled workers which is not
approved bs the Department and for which the contractors are compelled to undertake
PECL TPCOTLOnS

16, Making false complaints and/or misleading statements.

17. Engaging on trade within the premises of the establishments.

18. Any unauthorised divulgence of business affairs of the employees.

19, Collection or canvassing for the collection of any money within the premises of an
establishment unless authorised by the employer.

) Holding meeting inside the premises without previous sanction of the employers

‘1. Threatening or intimidating any workman or employer during the working hours within the premises.

 

‘(ON “TO . —
laa For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 72 ---
Pave ]72

Stundard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Appendix 'XI'
Form — XII
[See rule 78(2)(d)|
Register of Fines
Name and address of contractor

Nature and location of work
Name and address of establishment in under which contract is carried on

Name and address of Principal Employer

 

      
        

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

w 2 3 S 4 B
| 5 Ss = z SoB| & z ZB
5 e 2 & z= es = z 5
= p 3 3 % = 20 2 2
5 | a2 |% : fe |) eeel|s E
= 2 25 2 8g )/228)] 82 |b a
S 2 2 = = Se S £ SE a 2 =
& 3 ge | os 25 Qo6/8S5/ 3 5
2 |3 |Z |ge/b/e [FP | Reel gels |2 | 8
}—£ | |BE/2° |e | ge |seeie |e |e
ie 3 g E = o° | eee| 2 2 °
£ = 3 > “ls < =
= | 2 = = a
|
712 pat
L di. | == |
J Be
CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 73 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Form—XX
|See rule 78(2)(d)|
Register of Deduction for Damage or Loss

4 ] | j 1
Sue and address of contractor

Nature and location of werk

Name and address of establishment in under which contract is carried on

Name and address of Principal Employer

| 73

Appendix "XII"

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ |
ss 4
* yd 3 ‘ ~
= 2 » 4 z Bz | i
= de x 3 a s | = |
= = = = 3 == 5 4 =
z | es = = = & = Z |
= S S = o E 3 :
: = | 2 F sepa ea |e E S 4
3 ; |s |@ |g3|s3s|2 ]}8 128 $
= |3 © |§ | ee] Fecie 1a is =
7 c = S = 2 = 8 3 ne a 5
5 = = = t 2 Sas S J = 2
Ee a co 5 Go a ot o
5 . i ed = = 5. 5 5 “
3 5 Z Ss 2 Coe 8S 5 3
— & 8 z g Es a |*
| 2 = es | = a > § <
_ B. a a oe
) = 2
- a
|
|
Ist Last
| instalment | instalment
+ = + = —- + —3— 5 —— }-
wt 12 | 3 tf 5 | 6 es 8 9 10 Ul 12 13
|
| |
|
|
| 1
| |
| | a } |
=h

CONTRACTOR

 

 

  

1 § WY ap
Y gL
Ay) ‘5 g

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 74 ---
Page |74

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Appendix 'XTII"
Form—XXI1l
[See rule 78(2)(d)|
Register of Advances

Name and address of contractor
Nature and location of work
Name and address of establishment in under which contract is carried on

Name and address of Principal Employer

 

 

    
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fon = | Araaae roe
| 3 3
v fy 2S =
= 8 = = = S 25 3 4
| § S p s 3 2 = wg a &
| & n Ss = a = 5 S'S =65
Z tes ec z , 29 aS ee 5.
<= 2 2 3 ey ° ee =e ee = 9
Z 5 3 jE | = et a= 3. 25
- i 4 |8e|38 | 82 |s2 | 22 | 88 | ee
x S = > ee E = = 5 "i 5
2 = Bela [> oS 25 ae
=e | 2 | &S 4 ~~ 3 3 5 u 2s
: | 5 oF 6 = 5 a5
Zz | a | % & 5 5 g 25 Az
| a = 2 a 33 & =
| a “3
oa
|
| Mi fists = Fas
1 | 2 3 ' Ls 6 7 8 9
+ = ———++ +
| |
|
= | eo.

 

 

ae" a
o AGA, Es
/ ben
CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 75 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Appendix "XIV"
Form — XXIII
[See rule 78(2)(e)]
Register of Overtime

Name and address of contractor
Nature and location of work
Name and address of establishment in under which contract is carried on

Name and address of Principal Employer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 _ ——_, —y : - + 1
| | | » =
; 2 * = 5 ? g
aan | fae t 6 &
c a = a 5 4 |
g | » |e |e |8 |@ |e [ez |
a - & 3 =~ = > = = a
= ‘ = = o > = =
we 3 a 5 = ¥ c ‘= c 5 4
. = = ef i =F = > a 2 oud
5 oS = | -_- =—- Oo | oS = _ oO =
3 | - £ = wo § u 5
Z 2 £ 5 22> |S3e | 228] 2g 2 2 2 8
5 | 2 7 ea|S2 | ete - E 3 5
| © Ss Ss > = 3s & = 2 ‘e eT a
| = F ae = 4 = = oS =
| te oe o or i Lc > =
g : | 5 E A c
z a G } 2 = S ov oO =
- = u ot a5 > —
| <= | | & = = = “)
— oe [bet ~ os
| & | | 2 e
a =
| - | 5 Le a pat eer ey +
| 2 3 | 4 6 4S Q 10 11 | 12
| : <tdpoatoy Sind
|
|
| |
| |
| |
| |
|
J I J
1 ff
1 f / +
AG L \
A — \, Sy
‘ws ae

NT RAC ae
SAE WSIS IASD For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 76 ---
Page |76

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Appendix - XV (FORM 31)
INDENTURE FOR SECURED ADVANCES
(Referred to in paragraphs 10.2.20 and 10.2.22 of CPW A Code)

ifor use in causes in which the contract is for finished work and the contractor has entered into an agreement for the
execution of a certain specified quantity of work in a given time)

THIS INDENTURE made _ the.. sapicrert) (GAY (OF awaisisesieanaivins 20....... BETWEEN

divas .. (hereinafter called the Contractor which expression shall where the context so admits or
implies ‘be desesed’ to o inchate his executors administrators and assigns) of the one part and the PRESIDENT OF
INDIA (hereinafter called the President which expression shall where the context so admits or implies be deemed
to include his successors in office and assigns) of the other part. WHEREAS by an agreement
dated _..........-... (hereinafier called the said agreement) the Contractor has agreed AND WHEREAS
the Contractor has applied to the President that he may be allowed advances on the security of materials absolutely
belonging to him and brought by him to the site of the works the subject of the said agreement for use in the
constriction of such of the works as he has undertaken to execute at rates fixed for the finished work (inclusive of
the cost of materials and labour and other charges) AND WHEREAS the President has agreed to advance to the

Contractor the sum of Rupees .......... wits . on the security of materials the quantities
and other particulars of which are , detailed § in Vices of Sepured, Kavasiie attached to the Running Account Bill
for the said works signed by the Contractor on . “ee eee ..and the President has reserved

to himself the option of making any further advance or sdventios 4 on the seneiey. of other materials brought by the
Contractor to the site of the said works. Now THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH that in pursuance of the said
agreement and in consideration of the sum of Rupees ; sin ..on or before the execution of
these presents paid to the Contractor by the President (the sebision whens the Contractor doth hereby
acknowledge) and of such further advances (if any) as may be made to him as aforesaid the Contractor doth hereby
covenant and agree with the President and declare as follows: -

(1) That the said sum of Rupees ,. ae Seensana ..So advanced by the President to the
Contractor as aforesaid and all or any / Soattier #1 sum or sums relma as = siorenid shall be employed by the
Contractor in or towards expediting the execution of the said works and for no other purpose whatsoever.

(2) That the materials detailed in the said Account of Secured Advances which have been offered to and accepted
by the President as security are absolutely the Contractor's own property and free from encumbrances of any kind
und the contractor will not make any application for or receive a further advance on the security of materials which
are not absolutely his own property and free from encumbrances of any kind and the Contractor indemnifies the
President against all claims to any materials in respect of which an advance has been made to him as aforesaid.

(3) That the materials detailed in the said Account of Secured Advances and all other materials on the security of
which any further advance or advances may hereafter be made as aforesaid (hereinafter called the said materials)
shall be used by the Contractor solely in the execution of the said works in accordance with the directions of the
Divisional Officer .........0.....-....-... Division (hereinafter called the Divisional Officer) and in the term of the
said agreement.

(4) That the Contractor shall make at his own cost all necessary and adequate arrangements for the proper watch,
sale custody and protection against all risks of the said materials and that until the said materials shall remain at the
site of the said works in the Contractor's custody and on his own responsibility and shall at all times be open to
inspection by the Divisional Officer or any officer authorised by him. In the event of the said materials or any part
thereof being stolen, destroyed or damaged or becoming deteriorated in a greater degree than is due to reasonable
use and wear thereof the Contractor will forthwith replace the same with other materials of like quality or repair
and make good the same as required by the Divisional Officer.

(5) That the said materials shall not on any account be removed from the site of the said works except with the
written permission of the Divisional Officer or an officer authorised by him on that behalf.

(6) That the advanees shall be repayable in full when or before the Contractor receives payment from the President
of the price payable to him for the said works under the terms and provisions of the said agreement. Provided that
if any intermediate payments are made to the Contractor on account of work done than on the occasion of each
such payment the President will be at liberty to make a recovery from the Contractor's bill for such payment by
deducting there from the value of the said materials then actually used in the construction and in respect of which
recovery has not been made previously, the value for this purpose being determined in respect of each description
of materials at the rates at which the amounts of the advances made under these presents were calculated.

(7) That if the Contractor shall at any time make any default in the performance or observance in any respect of
any of the terms and provisions of the said agreement or of these presents the total amount of the advance or

Go

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 77 ---
Pace | 77

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

advances that may still be owing to the President shall immediately on the happening of such default be repayable
by the Contractor to the President together with interest thereon at twelve per cent per annum from the date or
respective dates of such advance or advanees to the date of repayment and with all costs charges, damages and
expetises incurred by the President in or for the recovery thereof or the enforcement of this security or otherwise by
reason of the default of the Contractor and the Contractor hereby covenants and agrees with the President to repay
and pay the same respectively to him accordingly.

(8) That the Contractor hereby ae all the said materials with the repayment to the President of the said sum of
Rupees .......... 1 and any further sum or sums advanced as aforesaid and all costs
charges, damages pare expenses rivdils vader these presents PROVIDED ALWAYS and it is hereby agreed and
declared that notwithstanding anything in the said agreement and without prejudice to the powers contained therein
Hund Whenever the covenant for payment and repayment herein before contained shall become enforceable and
the money owing shall not be paid in accordance therewith the President may at any time thereafter adopt all or
any of the following courses as he may deem best :-

(a) Size and utilize the said materials or any part thereof in the completion of the said works on behalf of the
Contractor in accordance with the provisions in that behalf contained in the said agreement debiting the Contractor
with the actual cost of effecting such completion and the amount due in respect of advances under these presents
and crediting the Contractor with the value of work done as if he had carried it out in accordance with the said
agreement and at the rates thereby provided. If the balance is against the Contractor he is to pay same to the

Present on demand

hb) Remove and sell by public auction the seized materials or any part thereof and out of the moneys arising from
the sale retain all the sums aforesaid repayable or payable to the President under these presents and pay over the
surplus (if any) to the Contractor.

(¢) Deduct all or any part of the moneys owing out of the security deposit or any sum due to the Contractor under
the said agreement.

(9) That except in the event of such defaulton the part of the Contractor as aforesaid interest on the said advance
shall not be payable. used in construction as aforesaid

(10) That in the event of any conflict between the provisions of these presents and the said agreement the
provisions of these presents shall prevail and in the event of any dispute or difference arising over the construction
or effect of these presents the settlement of which has not been herein before expressly provided for the same shall
be finally resolved as per provisions of clause 25 of the contract. In witness whereof the said

ANG oo... eeeeeeseeeeeeeeeesebY the order and under the direction of the President have hereunto
sect their respective hands the day and year first above written. Signed, sealed and delivered
by the said contractor in the presence of

 

Signature

Witness Name ,,..........-.-0.0

PUOCIESS 3 oa csasces (isccswsopenssuene

Signed by... ju ebeeeeee

by the order and divection of F the President in the presence of Signature
Witness Name

Address

J a

 

‘ONTRAC . eee
‘ ra For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 78 ---
Page |78

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

APPENDIX - XVI (Refer Clause 5)
FORM OF APPLICATION BY THE CONTRACTOR FOR SEEKING RESCHEDULING OF
MILESTONE/EXTENSION OF TIME

|, Name of contractor
2. Name of work as given in the agreement
\ercement ne
|. Estimated amount put e- Pender
5. Date of commencement of work as per agreement
. Period allowed for completion of work as per agreement

. Date of completion stipulated in agreement

sc

. Period for which extension of time ifhas been given by authority in Schedule 'F' previously

 

letter no, and date Extension granted

| Months _

    

 

(@) ISt OXLENSION vicccuseeeesees

 

|
1
| (b) 2nd extension .....0.....0.0.

 

 

 

(c) 3rd Extension ....:.:--:eees

 

(d) 4th extension .......0.. cece

 

 

(¢) Total extension previously given

10. Period for which extension if applied for
1 |, Hindrances on account of which extension is applied for with dates on which hindrances occurred and the period for
which these are likely to last (for causes under clause 5,2/ and 5.3). Submitted to the Authority indicated in Schedule F With

copy to the Engineer-in-charge and Sub Divisional Officer Signature of Contractor Dated .....0..:.001seeeo

u
Jr ob

as: a
PUNT For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 79 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

APPENDIX XV
Notice for appointment of Arbitrator
|Refer Clause 25]

Dear Sir,

In terms of clause 25 of the agreement, particulars of which are given below, L/we hereby give notice to you to appoint an
arbitrator for settlement of disputes mentioned below:

|, Name of applicant

*, Whether applicant is Individual/Prop. Firm/Partnership Firm/Lid. Co

bulladdress wl the

Ipplcant

 

1, Name of the work and contract number in which arbitration sought

Ww

. Name of the Division which entered into contract
6. Contract amount in the work
Date of contract
8. Date of initiation of work
) Sipulited date of completion of work
Hh Actine dite ul completion of work (if completed)
11. Total number of claims made
12. Total amount claimed
13. Date of intimation of final bill (if work is completed)
14. Date of payment of final bill (if work is completed)
15. Amount of final bill (if work is completed)
If. Date oF request made to SP for decision
17. Date ol receipt ol SE's decision

[8. Date of appeal to you

19. Date of receipt of your decision,

Specimen signatures of the applicant

(Only the person/authority who signed the contract should sign)

1 We certils that the information given above is true to the best of my/our knowledge. I/We enclose following docunrents.

|. Statement of claims with amount of claims

tm

td

Yours faithfully,

(Signatures)

Copy in duplicate to

 

KY \

\
 ¢

ONTRAC - A ees
. EAC TOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 80 ---
Page |80

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Form of Earnest Money Deposit
Bank Guarantee Bond

 

WHEREAS. contractor,................. (Name of contractor) (hereinafter called "the contractor") has submitted his e-Tender
dated ceccccccuce (date) for the construction Of -.....ccssvereeseeseenenneeeessneenrereey (AME of work) (hereinafter called "the E-Tender”)
KNOW ALL PEOPLE by these presents that We ...:cssssssesesssnenensersnrssees (NAME of bank)
having Our registered OFFICE AL sscesseessserneerereeseerneensecens (hereinafter called "the Bank") are bound unto
ssviptmmuistsisirisiteseeestveeseeee (Name and division of Engineer) (hereinafter called “the Engineer-in-Charge") in the sum of
sinnauernveeeTes (RS. In WOFdS ..cccosssesesseeereseeesenscrseneereneeee) for Which payment well and truly to be made to the said

Engineer-in- Charge the Bank binds itself. his suceessors and assigns by these presents,

SEALED with the Common Seal of the said Bank this ......- wah tay OF ocisccccrsacrcan a Dias
THE CONDITIONS of this obligation are:

(1) If after e-Tender opening the Contractor withdraws, his e-Tender during the period of validity of e-Tender (including
extended validity of e-Tender) specified in the Form of E-Tender,

(2) If the contractor having been notified of the acceptance of his e-Tender by the Engineer-in-Charge:

(a) fails or refuses to execute the Form of Agreement in accordance with the Instructions to contractor, if required;

OR

(bh) fails or refuses to furnish the Performance Guarantee, in accordance with the provisions of e-Tender document and

Instructions to contractor,

We undertake to pay to the Engineer-in-Charge either up to the above amount or part thereof upon receipt of his first written
demand, without the Engineer-in-Charge having to substantiates his demand, provided that in his demand the Engineer-in-
Charge will note that the amount claimed by his is due to him owing to the occurrence of one or any of the above conditions,
specifying the oceurred condition or conditions.

This Ciuarantée will remain in foree ap to and including the date® ............ after the deadline for submission of e- Tender as
such deadline is stated in the Instructions to contractor or as it may be extended by the Engineer-in- Charge, notice of which
extension(s) to the Bank is hereby waived. Any demand in respect of this Guarantee should reach the Bank not later than the
above dale.

EAE casssiarstess SIGNATURE OF THE BANK

WA TRESS scnsisemn SEAL

(SIGNATURE, NAME AND ADDRESS)
*Date to be worked out on the basis of validity period of 6 months from last date of receipt of e-Tender.

AL

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 81 ---
Page |81

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Form of Performance Security (Guarantee)
Bank Guarantee Bond - Format—1

In consideration of the President of India (hereinafter called "The Government") having offered to accept the terms and

conditions of the proposed agreement between..............0...c0..ccecceeecens ANE occ ccsinesystreedtiaconnaacssss (ereiiahter
called! the said) Contactors)" ) fOr tie WORK. acs scscisiciceccdscenvsdiees dacoateccdee eee cecenhes (hereinafter called "the said
agreement”) having agreed to production of an irrevocable Bank Guarantee for RS. ..eccccccccus (Rupees

aatevasrunninesedncasiwons . only) as a security/guarantee from the contractor(s) for compliance of his obligations in
accordance with the terms and conditions in the said agreement,

1. We i (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank") hereby undertake to pay to the Government an
amount nob exweeding Rs. oo... eeee eee (Rupees. ......000....4... Only) on demand by the Government.
2. WOS sacaiss .s.eeeeeiAindicate the name of the Bank) do hereby undertake to pay the amounts due and

payable under this guarantee without any demure, merely on a demand from the Government stating that the amount claimed
us required to meet the recoveries due or likely to be due from the said contractor(s), Any such demand made on the bank
shall be conclusive as regards the amount due and payable by the bank under this Guarantee. However, our liability under
this guarantee shall be restricted to an amount not exceeding Rs. ........ (Rupees ....0cccecce.ss000 only)

3, We, the said bank further undertake to pay the Government any money so demanded notwithstanding any dispute or
disputes mised hy the contractor(s) in any suit or proceeding pending before any court or Tribunal relating thereto, our
liability under this present being absolute and unequivocal. The payment so made by us under this bond shall be a valid
discharge of our liability for payment thereunder and the Contractor(s) shall have no claim against us for making such
payment

AWE, oc cecrreserssscoveerseessseveee (indicate the name of the Bank) further agree that the guarantee herein contained shall
remain in full force and effect during the period that would be taken for the performance of the said agreement and that it
shall continue to be enforceable till all the dues of the Government under or by virtue of the said agreement have been fully
paid and its claims satisfied or discharged or till Engineer-in- Charge on behalf of the Government certified that the terms
and conditions of the said agreement have been fully and properly carried out by the said Contractor(s) and accordingly
discharges this 2uarantee

5. We. ; .s.so.... (indicate the name of the Bank) further agree with the Government that the Government
shall have the fullest liberty without our consent and without affecting in any manner our obligation hereunder to vary any of
the terms and conditions of the said agreement or to extend time of performance by the said Contractor(s) from time to time
or lo postpone for any time or from time to time any of the powers exercisable by the Government against the said
contractor(s) and to forbear or enforce any of the terms and conditions relating to the said agreement and we shall not be
relieved from our liability by reason of any such variation, or extension being granted to the said Contractor(s) or for any
forbearance, act of omission on the part of the Government or any indulgence by the Government to the said Contractor(s) or
hy any such matter or thing whatsoever which under the law relating to sureties would, but for this provision, have effect of
SO relic w i Ws

6. This guarantee will not be discharged due to the change in the constitution of the Bank or the Contractor(s).

 

Ai WGe wiisketuascis perenne (indicate the name of the Bank) lastly undertake not to revoke this guarantee except with

the previous consent of the Government in writing.

8. This guarantee shall be valid up tO .........:ccceccceseusereeeee unless extended on demand by the Government.

Notwithstanding anything mentioned aboye, our liability against this guarantee is restricted to RS. .......cccccccecceeeeoee

(Rupees pekivuics ) and unless a claim in writing is lodged with us within six months of the date of expiry or the

extended date of expiry of this guarantee all our liabilities under this guarantee shall stand discharged. Dated the
day of fore ......(indicate the name of the Bank)

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 82 ---
Page |82
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Form of Performance Security (Guarantee)
Bank Guarantee Bond- Format —II
In consideration of the President of India (hereinafter called "The Government") having offered to accept the terms and

conditions of the proposed agreement POLWEED cn cacccctiepscccecavesetersases@NG cc .ccceeascenbccisnessanssisanceresesens (hereinafter
called "the said Contractor(s)") for the work,........--c0:::sessereeersteeeerseeeeeeeseneenmnnrer arenes’ (hereinafter called "the said
agreement") having agreed to production of an irrevocable Bank Guarantee foe Ba: lc

S recapassicalveny awe loul vai deaeeps only) as a security/guarantee from the contractor(s) for compliance of his obligations in
accordance with the terms and conditions in the said agreement.

I, We. . i _(hereinafier referred to as "the Bank") hereby undertake to pay to the Government an
amount NOL EXceediN@ RS. ..c0...00cceeeseeeseeeesee eee (RUPORS.. secre ceeeee Only) on demand by the Government.
2, We, ss. __...........lindieate the name of the Bank) do hereby undertake to pay the amounts due and

payable under this guarantee without any demure, merely on a demand from the Government stating that the amount claimed
as required to meet the recoveries due or likely to be due from the said contractor(s). Any such demand made on the bank
shall be conclusive as regards the amount due and payable by the bank under this Guarantee. However, our liability under
this guarantee shall be restricted to an amount not exceeding Rs. .......:00:e0ereseeeees (Rupees ..........002++--.0nly)

+ We. the said bank further undertake to pay the Government any money so demanded notwithstanding any dispute or
disputes raised by the contractors) in any suit or proceeding pending before any court or Tribunal relating thereto, our
liability under this present being absolute and unequivocal. The payment so made by us under this bond shall be a valid
discharge of our liability for payment thereunder and the Contractor(s) shall have no claim against us for making such
payment.

BW ical cavetecsunesitesvaltervensee=y (indicate the name of the Bank) further agree that the guarantee herein contained shall
remain in full force and effect during the period that would be taken for the performance of the said agreement and that it
shall continue to be enforceable till all the dues of the Government under or by virtue of the said agreement have been fully
paid and its claims satisfied or discharged or till Engineer-in- Charge on behalf of the Government certified that the terms
and conditions of the said agreement have been fully and properly carried out by the said Contractor(s) and accordingly
discharges this guarantee

8 Wee ooooccececeeeeeeeeeeeeveseaveaeeee (indicate the name of the Bank) further agree with the Government that the Government
shall have the fullest liberty without our consent and without affecting in any manner our obligation hereunder to vary any of
the terms and conditions of the said agreement or to extend time of performance by the said Contractor(s) from time to time
or to postpone for any time or from time to time any of the powers exercisable by the Government against the said
contractor(s) and to forbear or enforce any of the terms and conditions relating to the said agreement and we shall not be
relieved from our liability by reason of any such variation, or extension being granted to the said Contractor(s) or for any
forbearance. act of omission on the part of the Government or any indulgence by the Government to the said Contractor(s) or

by any such matter or thing whatsoever which under the law relating to sureties would, but for this provision, have effect of
su relieving us

6. This guarantee will not be discharged due to the change in the constitution of the Bank or the Contractor(s).
PM ena. aan were ntecatewes stints (indicate the name of the Bank) lastly undertake not to revoke this guarantee except with
the previous consent of the Government in writing.

$. This guarantee shall be valid Up 10 .....-sererperterereerencnenns unless extended on demand by the Government.
Notwithstanding anything mentioned above, our liability against this guarantee is restricted to Rs. .....-...0..--s.eci
(Rupees Sauer neiely

{o,—

CONTRAST OR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 83 ---
| 83

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

SCHEDULE SW

PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES

Schedule of quantities (as per PWD-3)

SCHEDULE *D'

Extra schedule for specific requirements/document for the work, if any.

SCHEDULE *E*

Reference to General Conditions of contract

Name of work:

Estimated cost of work:
(1) Earnest money:
(i) Perlormanve Cauaranive

(iii) Security Deposit :

Supply and installation of electrification works in the Reaction Engg. lab (CRF-301) under
DST sponsored research project of Bio- Engineering Deptt. at NIT Agartala..

Rs. 4,17.354.00
Rs, 8350.00 (to be returned after receiving performance guarantee)
5" ol e- Pendered valtie

10% of e-Tendered value including Earnest money and Performance Guarantee .

SCHEDULE *F'
GENERAL RULES : Officer inviting e-Tender --------- Registrar

& DIRECTIONS

Maximum percentage for quantity of items of work to be executed beyond which rates are to

be determined in accordance with Clauses 12.2 & 12,3,
See below
Definitions:
div) Engineer-in-Charge Estate Engineer
2(viii) \ccepting Authority Director, NIT Agartala
2tx) Percentage on cast of materials and labour to 15%
cover all overheads and profits.
(xi) Standard Schedule of Rates DSR 2018
2(Nii) Department Estate Section
(ii) Standard CPWD fatest contract Form GCC, 2020

CPWD Form 7

Lpter

$ as modified & corrected

Clause |

(iv) Time allowed for submission of Performance Guarantee, programme chart (Time and

progress jand applicable labour licenses . registration with EPFO, ESIC and BOCW

welfare board or proof of applying there offrom the date of issue of letter of acceptance 15 days
(v) Maximum allowable extension with late fee @ 0.1% per day of Performance Guarantee

amount beyond the period provided in (i) above ....... 15 days

(1 to 15 days to be filled by
NIT approving authority)

 

Su,

ai

 

\

JN f O : . .
COR ERASIEK For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 84 ---
Page [84

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Clause 2

; ; 9
Authority for fixing compensation under clause 2 1%

Clause 24

Applicable clase 2/ Clause 2A Yes/No

Clause 5

Number of days from the date of issue of letter of acceptance for reckoning date of start Mile stone(s)
as per table given below:- 7 days

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ar Descripuon of Milestone | ‘Time Allowed in days (from date Amount to be with-held in case of non
, (Physical) of start) achievement of milestone
i Ls
|
&
: |
[_
4
Time allowed for execution of work
30 (Thirty) Days
Authority to decide:
(i) Extension of time ccustutsiweaeenn (Engineer in Charge or Engineer in Charge of Major Component in

ease of Composite Contracts, as the case may be)

(i) Rescheduling of mile stones .......... vse (Superintending Engineer/PM/CPM inCharge of Major
Component incase of Composite Contracts, as the case may be)

(ili) Shifting of date of start in case of delay in handing over Of SHE. eeccecseessnersersereessereeeeeeeseee (Engineer-in charge/
PM/CPM in Charge / PM/CPM in Charge of Major Component in case of Composite Contracts, as the case may
be)

PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES Clause § Schedule of handing over of site

 

 

 

 

 

 

| : Time Period for handing over
} Part Portion of site Description reckoned from date of issue of letter of |
_ = ian - | intent.
Part A | Portion without any hindrance |
ParttB | Portions with encumbrances |
eee
Part € Portions dependent on work |
of other agencies. |

 

/ GU a
/ — Ss }
CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 85 ---
Stundard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Clause 5
Applicable clause 5/ Clause 5A
Clause 7
ross work Lo he dane together with net payment /adjustment of advances: for
material collected, if any, since the last such payment for being eligible to ee eneumayerearaa
Interim payment
Clause 7A
Whether clause 7A shall be applicable Yes/No

( lause TOA

List of testing equipment to be provided by the contractor at site lab.

Clause 10B(ii)

Not Applicable

 

Whether Chitise-10-B444-shall be appheable Yes/No

   

Clause 10¢ a :
Not Applicable

 

CempenenteHebeutexpressed-as-percent-ofvdlue-ahvorke = diiaitiieeiaceatia cscs paeaapann OO

Clause 10CC Appliesble/ Not Applicable

Schedule of component oF other Materials. Labour ete. for price escalation

Com puinicnt ad wievil (except materials covered under clause LOCA) /Electrical PTV o ra Nacsa
COmS TRICO

value of work, -

Component of Labour - IM sh cvacsesaneiucrecdentaeceaceiwir cue
expressed as percent of total value of work.

Note 2 XM o....ecseeseseeess% Should be equal to (100) - (materials covered under clause 10CA i.e. Cement, Steel, POL and
other matertal specified in clause 1OCA + Component of Labour)

Clause 11

SPeCicalians to by followed for execution of work
Clause 12

Authority to decide deviation upto 1.5 times of e-Tendered
amount 2 times
12.2123 Deviation Limit beyond which clauses

12.2 & 12.3 shall apply for building work 1.5 times

 

Aa R \ 4,
/ a 1s 3

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 86 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

12.5 (i)

Deviation Limit beyond which clauses

12.2 & 12.3 shall apply for foundation work

(except items mentioned in earth work subhead

in DSR and related items)

(il)

Chiuse 16

Deviation Limit for items mentioned in earth
work subhead of DSR and related items

Competent Authority for deciding reduced rates

Clause 18

List of mandatory machinery, tools & plants to be deployed by the contractor at site:

Clause 19C ........-.

Clause 19D .........-.:.:0ssseeeee

Clause 19G .........,

Clause 19K

Clause 25

Bi. Diesassnnennrens
3 6..
fastener 9

sca earn sak essa cee authority to decide penalty for each default

_....... authority to decide penalty for each default

SapkshiSeeRninT authority to decide penalty for each default

authority to decide penalty for each default

Constitution of Dispute Redressal Committee (DRC)
Chalten =:.c.ccsicicosicstiarinssnarcccanicrstsinens
Member -

Page |86

Clause 32 Requirement of Technical Representative(s) and recovery Rate

 

pe

Minimum Quatificution of
lechrical Representative

Discipline

  
 
  

Designation (Principal
Techineal/ Techincal
representative)

 

 

  

 

 

CONTRACTOR

4

 

Minimum

 

Rate at which recovery shall be made
z from the contractor in the event of not
5 fulfilling provision of clause 36(i)

 

 

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

   


--- Page 87 ---
Page | 87

Staridard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

 

 

 

ill lay | Es

Assistant Engineers retired from Government services that are holding Diploma will be treated at par with Graduate

kngineers

 

 

Diploma holder with minimum 10 year relevant experience with a reputed construction co. can be treated at par with
Graduate Engineers for the purpose of such deployment subject to the condition that such diploma holders should not exceed
51/0 of requirement of degree engineers

 

AG\, \

CONTRACTOR > ps
For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 88 ---
Page |88

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

6.

18.

19,

20.

CONTRACTOR

GENERAL CONDITIONS

In the event of the e-Tender being submitted by a firm, it must be signed separately by each partner thereof or in the
event of the absence of any partner, it must be signed on his behalf by a person holding a power holding a power-of
atlomney authorizing him to do so, such power of attorney to be produced with the e-Tender, and it must disclose that
the firm is duly registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.

The receipt of an accountant or clerk for any money paid by the contractor will not be considered as any
acknowledgment or payment to the officer inviting e-Tender and the contractor shall be responsible for seeing that he
procures a receipt signed by the officer inviting e-Tender or a duly authorized Cashier.

The contractor shall comply with the provisions of the Apprentices Act 1961, and the rules and orders issued there
under from time to time. If he fails to do so, his failure will be a breach of the contract and the Superintending
Engineer/Executive Engineer may in his discretion, without prejudice to any other right or remedy available in law,
vance! the contract. The contractor shall-also be liable for any pecuniary liability arising on account of any violation by
him of the provisions of the said Act

The work in general shall be carried out in accordance with the CPWD General Specifications 2013 Electrical with
upto date correction slips, hereinafter referred as CPWD Specifications.

The structural and architectural drawings shall at all times be properly correlated before executing any work. However,
in case of any discrepancy in the item given in the schedule of quantities appended with the e-Tender and
architectural drawings relating to the relevant item, the former shall prevail unless and otherwise given in writing by
the Engineer-in-Charge.

The ¢-Tenderer shall study carefully, the drawings, specifications, schedule of quantities and conditions of the ¢-
Tender documents to fully appreciate the scope of work before quoting his rates.

The contractors are advised to get acquainted with the proposed work and its site and also study the Architectural
Drawings. specitications and special conditions carefully before e-Tendering. No claim of any sort shall be entertained
on account of any site conditions and ignorance of specifications and special conditions.

The civil work shall be carried out as per CPWD General Specifications 2013 Electrical with up to date correction
slips unless otherwise specified in the nomenclature of individual item or in the specifications and special conditions,
where specifications are silent, the decision of Engineer-in-Charge shall be final and binding on contractors. Road
work shall be executed as per latest MORTH specifications.

The rates quoted by the contractor shall be taken as net and nothing extra shall be paid on any account i.¢. royalty,
cartage. GST and stacking at required places & working in restricted area etc.

The rates for different items of work shall apply for all heights and depths, leads and lifts unless othérwise specified in
the agreement or specifications applicable to the agreement,

Any damage done by the contractor to any existing work during the course of execution of the work shall be made
good by him at his own cost.

Articles manufactured by the reputed firms and approved by Engineer-in-Charge shall only be used. Only articles
classified, as “first quality’ by the manufacturer shall be used unless otherwise specified. In case articles bearing ISI
certification are not available in the market, quality of samples brought by the contractor shall be judged by standards
laid down in the relevant CPWD specifications. For the items not covered by CPWD specifications relevant BIS
standards shall apply. The sample of materials to be brought to site for use in work shall be got approved from the
Engineer-in-Charge before actual execution of work.

Samples of materials required for testing shall be provided free of cost by the contractor. Testing charges, if any, shall
be borne by the department in case the test results are satisfactory exceptwhere-ever specifically mentioned otherwise
in the NIJ. All other expenditure to be incurred for taking samples, conveyance, packing ete. shall be borne by the
Contractor

lhe quantities of each item shall not be exceeded beyond the agreement quantities without prior permission of
Engineer-in-Charge.

Income tax as per Income tax rules, GST as per rules, 1% Labour cess and 1% water charges (if departmental water
used) will be recovered from the gross amount of the bill.

Contractor is to make own arrangement of electricity as department is obliged to provide electricity, However if
departmental electricity is used then 1% electricity charges will be recovered from the gross amount of work done
but the contractor shall arrange the necessary electrical fittings and cables etc. for taking the electrical power from
nearest electrical point to the work site at his own cast.

AN] types of mortars to be used in the work shall be mixed in the mechanical mixer and hand mixing shall not be
permitted.

The contractor shall make his own arrangement for getting the permission to ply the trucks from the traffic police or
any other authority in this regard, .

No payment shall be made to the contractor for any damage caused by rain, snow fall, floods or any other natural
causes whatsoever during the execution of work. The damage caused to work shall have to be made good by the
contractor at his own cost and no claim on this account shall be entertained.

Other agencies may also simultaneously be executing the work of electrification, Horticulture or external services and
other building works for the same building along with this work. The contractor shal! afford necessary facilities for the
same and no claiin in the matter shall be entertained. The contractor shall especially co-ordinate with the other agency
CUPS ie «vl his work

Some resifictions may be imposed by the security staff ete. on the working and or movement of labour and materials,
ete, the contractor shall be bound to follow all such restrictions / instructions and nothing shall be payable on this

a ay

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 89 ---
Page |89

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

The contractor shall take all precautions to avoid accidents by exhibiting necessary caution boards. He shall be
responsible for all damages and accidents caused due to negligence on his part. No hindrance shall be caused to traffic
during the execution of the work by sturing materials on the road, VIP's corridor extra.

Ihe contractor shall be fully responsible for the safe custody of the material issued or brought by him to site for doing
the work.

Testing of materials: -

Samples of various materials required for testing shall be provided free of cost by the contractor unless otherwise
specified in the item. Testing charges, if any, shall be borne by the department provided the samples passes the test,
otherwise it shall be borne by the contractor. All other expenditures required to be incurred for taking the samples,
conveyance, packing ete. shall be borne by the contractor himself.

The rate lor all items of work. shall unless otherwise clearly specified include cost of all labour, material and other
inputs invalved in the execution af the items

The order of preference in case of any diserepaney as indicated in condition no. 8.1 under “Conditions of Contract”
given in the General Conditions of contract for Central PW.D Construction Work 2020 (Amended up to Date)
form may be read as the following.

a) Nomenclature of item as per Schedule of Quantities.
b) Particular specifications.
¢) Special conditions.
d) Additional conditions.
¢) General Conditions.
) C-Tender Drawings attached

#) =CPWD Specifications as applicable

h) Contract Clauses of General Conditions of contract for Central P.W.D Construction Work
2020( Amended up to Date) form,
i) Architectural/structural drawings and specifications mentioned in drawings.
I Indian Standard Specifications of BIS
k) Manufacturers specifications,
\) Sound engineering practice as per directions of the Engineer-in-Charge.

Mm
—J

38

at tad

Pt

J,

Any reference made to any Indian Standard Specifications and other specifications mentioned in the respective items
in these documents, shall imply to the latest version of that standard, including such revisions / amendments as issued
by the Bureau of Indian Standards up to last date of receipt of e-Tender. The contractor shall keep at his own cost all
such publications of relevant Indian Standards applicable to the work at site.

The contractor will not have any claim in case of any delay by the Engineer-in-Charge in removal of trees or shifting,
removing of telegraph. telephone or electric lines (overhead or underground), water and sewer lines and other structure
ete. any which may come in the way of the work. However. suitable extension of time can be granted to cover such
delay

The malba /garbage generated at site due to construction activities shall be removed from the site immediately & shall
he disposed off by the contractor to the approved dumping site identified by the Engineer-in-charge. The surplus
soil/earth shall be disposed of as per the directions of Engineer-in-charge separately.

The contractor shall clean the site thoroughly of scaffolding materials, rubbish, equipments left out of his work and
dress the site around the building to the complete satisfaction of the Engineer-in-charge before the work is treated as
completed.

Maintenance of Register of Tests- All the registers of tests carried out at Site or in outside laboratories shall be
maintained by the contractor which shall be issued to the contractor by Engineer-in-Charge.

Maintenance of Material at Site (MAS) Register- All the MAS Registers shall be maintained by Contractor which
shall be issued to the contractor by Engineer-in-Charge.

Contractor shall be responsible for safe custody of all the test registers,

Contractor shall provide permanent bench marks and other reference points for the proper execution of work and these
shall be preserved till the end of work. All such reference points shall be in relation to the levels and locations. given in
the drawings

lhe contractor shall fully comply with all legal orders and directions of the Public or local authorities or municipality
and adhere by their rules and regulations and pay all fees and charges for which he may be liable in this regard.
Nothing extra shall be paid/reimbursed for the same.

The work shall be carried out in the manner complying in all respects with the requirements of the relevant bylaws and
regulations of the local body under the jurisdiction of which the work is to be executed or as directed by the Engineer-
ii-eharge and nothing extra shall be paid on this account

The contractor shall give @ performance test of the entire installation(s) as per standing specifications before the work
is finally accepted by making his own arrangements for water supply, electricity etc. and nothing extra whatsoever
shall be payable for the same.

7

CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 90 ---
Page |90

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

32. it shall be ensured by the contractor that no electric live wire is left exposed or unattended to avoid any accidents in
this regard.

38. The structural and architectural drawings shall at all times be properly co-related before executing any work. However,
in case of any discrepancy in the item given in the schedule of quantities appended with the e-Tender and Architectural
drawings relating to the relevant item, the former shall prevail unless otherwise given in writing by the Engineer-in-
charge.

39 The contractor shall maintain in perfect condition, all portions executed till completion of the entire work allotted to
him. Where however phased delivery of work is contemplated these provisions shall apply separately to each phase.

40. The entire royalty at the prevalent rates shall have to be paid by the contractor on all the boulders, metals, shingle sand
ete, collected by him for execution of the work, directly to the Revenue authority or authorized agents of the State
Government concerned or the Central Government, as the case may be.

41. Existing drains, pipes, cables, over-head wires, sewer lines, water lines and similar services encountered in the course
of the execution of work shall be protected against the damage by the contractor at his own expense. The contractor
shall not store materials or otherwise occupy any part of the site in a manner likely to hinder the operation of such
services.

42. The contractor shall be responsible for the watch and ward/guard of the buildings, safety of all fittings and fixtures
provided by him against pilferage and breakage during the period of installations and thereafter till the building is
physically handed over to the department. No extra payment shall be made on this account.

13. The contractor shull bear all incidental charges for cartage, storage and safe custody of materials issued by department.

44. Any cement slurry added over base surface for continuation of concreting for better bond is deemed to have been built
in the items and nothing extra shall be payable for extra cement considered in consumption on this account.

45. The contractor shall take instructions from the Engineer-in-charge for stacking of materials. No excavated earth or
building materials ete, shall be stacked/collected in areas where other buildings, roads, services, compound walls ete.
are to be constructed.

46. Any trenching and digging for laying sewer lines/water lines/cables etc. shall be commenced by the contractor only
when all men. machinery’s and materials have been arranged and closing of the trench{s) thereafter shall be ensured
within the least possible time

1? The works shall be carried out in accordance with the drawings. to be issued from time to time by the Engineer-in-
Charge. Before commencement of any item of work. the contractor shall correlate all the relevant drawings issued for
ihe work and satisty himself that the information available thereof is complete and unambiguous, The discrepancy, if
any, shall be brought to the notice of the Engineer-in-Charge before execution of the work. The contractor alone shall
be responsible for any loss or damage executing by the commencement of work on the basis of any erroneous and or
incomplete information.

48. All drawings given in the e-Tender other than those indicated in nomenclature of items are only indicative of the
nature of the work and materials/fixings involved unless and otherwise specifically mentioned. However, the work
shall be executed in accordance with the drawings duly approved by the Engineer-in-Charge.

49. On completion of work. the contractor shall submit at his own cost soft and hard four prints in A2 size of “as built”
drawings to the Fngineer-in-Charge within 30 days of completion of work

{ur Sy

CONTEC EI e For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 91 ---
 

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

tod

ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS

   

The Contractors are advised to inspect and examine the site and its surroundings and satisfy themselves with the nature
of site, the means oP access to the site. constraints put by local regulations or any other circumstances which may affect
or inflivenee their e- Tender Nothing extra shall be payable on this account. No claims, whatsoever, shall be entertained
aa later date for any errers found, on plea that the information supplied by the Department in the e-Tender is
insullicient or is at variance with the actual site conditions.

The Contractor shall, if required by him, before submission of the e-Tender, inspect the drawings/ information (If
any) in the Office of the Registrar (Authority of Notice Inviting E-Tender).The Department shall not bear any
responsibility for the lack of knowledge and also the consequences, thereof to the Contractor. The information and data
shown in the drawings / mentioned in the e-Tender documents have been furnished, in good faith, for general
information and guidance only, The Estate Engineer, in no case, shall be held responsible for the accuracy thereof
wndor interpretations or conclusions drawn there from by the Contractor and all consequences shall be borne by the
Contractor No chum, whatsoever. shall be entertained from the Contractor, if the data or information furnished in e-
lender document is different or in-gorrect otherwise or actual working drawings are at variance with the drawings
available for inspection or attached to the e-Tender documents (Except for Deviation in quantity and extra item
required for bonafide purpose). It is presumed that the Contractor shall satisfy himself for all possible contingencies,
incidental charges, wastages, bottlenecks etc. likely during execution of work and acts of coordination, which may be
required between different agencies. Nothing extra shall be payable on this.

lhe main contractor shall be responsible and liable for proper and complete execution of the E & M work and ensure
coordiition and completion of both civil and E.& M work

Ihe work shall be executed as per CPWD General Specifications for Electrical Works (Part I — Internal) 2013, (Part
Il — External) 1994, (Part-IV Sub-Station) 2013, Part-II (Lifts & Escalator) 2003, Part-VI(Fire Detection and
\larm System), Part —V (Wet riser and Sprinkler system) 2006, Part -VI (DG set), relevant IS and BIS
standards and as per directions of Estate Engineer. These additional specifications are to be read in conjunction
with above and in case of variations; specifications given in this Additional conditions shall apply. However, nothing
extra shall be paid on account of these additional specifications & conditions as the same are to’be read along with
schedule of quantities for the work.

The e- Tenderer is advised not to deviate from the technical specifications/ items. commercial terms and conditions of
NIT Tike terms of payment. guarantee, arbitration clause, escalation ete

Rates:

The rates quoted by the e-Tenderer for electrical component Items shal! be firm and inclusive of all taxes (including
works contract taxes), duties and levies and all charges for packing forwarding, insurance, freight and delivery
installation, testing and commissioning etc. at site including temporary constructional storage, risks, overhead charges
general liabilities/obligations and clearance from local authorities. However, the fee for these inspections shall be bore
by the department

Vluterial for Electrical installation:

lhe agency shall bring the various items & materials as per actual requirement at site at the time of execution of
work, For any material brought prematurely at site without approval of Estate Engineer, no payment shall be
made for such material and Department shall not be responsible for its damage / deterioration, The make of
material have been indicated in the BOQ, The Estate Engineer shall reserve the right to instruct the contractor to
remove the material which, in his opinion, is not as per specifications.

Quality of material: Al! materials and equipment for electrical installation / work supplied by the contractor shall
be new. They shall be of such design, size and materials us to satisfactorily function under the rated conditions of
operation and to withstand the environmental conditions at site.

The quantities of various items may vary from the quantities given in schedule of work. The agency shall bring the
various items & materials as per actual requirement at site. Excess material more than the actual requirement
shall not be accepted & paid by the department.

Before start of the work the contractor is required to submit the working drawing. The work shall start only
after the working drawing is approved by the Estate Engineer of the work.

Belore placing orders on the manufacturer for supply of cables. pole, Fittings etc, the contractor is required to get

ussessed the exact requirement of each size of the cable at site of work and get the same approved from the
, , Al
/ —

\

CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 92 ---
Page |92
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

authority, NITA. Department shall not take back any spare quantity of cable whether in pieces or in sealed drums/
containers. if procured more than that required at site / approved by the authority, NITA.

However. it may be note that the contractor shall have to arrange extra quantity of the cables, poles,
fittings ete, over and above that assessed by the contractor, before start of the work and approved by the authority,
NITA. if such additional quantity of the cables, Poles, Fittings etc, is required at site, in order to make the
installation as covered in Scope of this work, in order to make the installation operational, Such quantity shall be
paid as per contractual provisions of the Agreement.

8. It shall be the responsibility of the bidder to ensure that all wiring work shall be carried out as per specification,

% Completeness of Electrical work:
All hardware items such as screws. thimbles. Gul, wires ete. which are essentially required for completing an
Llevtrical BOQ item as per specifications will be deemed to be included in the item even when the same have not been
specifically mentioned, All hardware materials such as nuts/bolts/screws/ washers etc. to be used in the electrical
scheduled items shall be zinc/cadmium plated iron. Nothing extra on account of same shall be paid.

10. For items/equipment requiring initial inspection at manufacturer's works’ the contractor will intimate the date of
testing of equipment at the manufacturer's works before dispatch. The department also reserves the right to inspect the
fabrication job at factory and the successful e-Tenderer has to make the arrangement for the same. The successful e-
Tenderer shall give sufficient advance notice regarding the dates proposed for such tests/inspection to the department's
representative(s) to facilitate his presence during testing/fabrication. The authority, NITA at his discretion may waive
oil such testing/fabrieation. The cost of the Engineer's visit to the factory will be borne by the Department, Also
equipment may be mspected at the Manutacture’s premises, belore dispatch to the site by the contractor.

11, Conformity with statutory Acts, Rules, Standards and codes
i) All components shal! conform to relevant Indian Standard Specifications, International Standards and
shall bear the stamp of the testing laboratory wherever existing and amended to date.

i) All electrical works shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Indian Electricity Act,
2003 and Indian Electricity Rules, 1956 amended to date. They shall also conform to CPWD General
Specifications for Electrical works, Part-I: Internal, 2013, Part-I]; external, 1994 and Part IV (Sub-
Station) 2013. amended upto date
ii) in respect of all labour employed directly or indirectly on the work for the execution of the work, the
contractor at his own expense, will arrange for the safety provisions as per the statutory provision,
B.S. recommendations, factory act, and workman’s compensation act. CPWD code and instructions
issued from time to time. Failure to provide such safety requirements would make the e-Tenderer liable
for penalty. In addition the Engineer-in- charge, shall be at liberty to make arrangements and provide
facilities as aforesaid and recover the cost incurred thereon form the contractor.
iti) ‘The contractor shall provide necessary barriers, signals and other safely measures wherever necessary
so as to avoid accident. He shall also indemnify CPWD against claims for compensation arising out of
negligence in this respect. Contractor shall be liable, in accordance with the Indian law and Regulations
for ary accident occurring due to any cause. The department shall not be responsible for any accident
occurred or damage incurred or claims arising there form during the execution of work. The contractor
to cover the risk. No extra payment would be made to the contractor due to the above provisions
thereot.
12. Storage and custody of electrical installation materials:
The room may be used for storage of sundry materials and erection equipment if available or else the agency has to
make his own arrangement. No separate storage accommodation shall be provided by the department. Watch and ward
of the stores and their safe custody shall be the responsibility of the contractor till the final taking over of the
installation by the department/ Client

(3. Care of the Building:
Care shall be Giken by the contractor while handling and installing the various equipment and components of the work
to avoid damage to the building. He shall be responsible for repairing all damages and restoring the same to their
original finish at his cost. He shall also remove at his cost all unwanted and waste materials arising out for the
installation from the site of work.

I4. Completion period:
le completion period indicated in e-Tender documents is for the entire work of supplying, installation, testing,
commissioning and handing over of the entire electrical installation to the satisfaction of the authority, NITA,

158. Performance Guarantee for Electrical Installation :

ae ek
CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 93 ---
Pa be he | 93

Stundard Single Bid Documents lor Electrical Works

The e-Tenderer shall guarantee among other things. the following:
a) Quality, Strength and performance of the materials used,
b) Safe mechanical and electrical stress on all parts under all specified conditions of operation.
¢) Satisfactory operation during the maintenance period.

| Guarantee of Electrical Installation:
All equipment’ installations shall be guaranteed for a period of Lyearsfrom the date of taking over the Installation by
the department against unsatisfactory performance and/or break down due to defective design, workmanship of
material, The equipment or components, or any part thereof, so found defective during guarantee period shall be
forthwith repaired or replaced tree of cost, to the satisfaction of the authority, NITA. In case it is felt by the
department that undue delay is being caused by the contractor in doing this, the same will be got done by the
department at the risk and cost of the contractor. The decision of the authority, NITA in this regard shall be final.

17. The entire installation shall be at the risk and responsibility of the contractor until these are tested and handed over to
the department. However if there is any delay in construction from the department side, the installation may be taken
over in parts, but the decision on the same shall rest with authority, NITA whieh shall be a binding on the contractor.

!8. Power Supply:
Required electrical power shall be arranged by the contractor for installation purpose and payment for electricity
charges shall be made by contractor. Electrical power supply required for testing of entire installation after completion
shall be arranged by the department.

19. Data Manual and Drawings to be furnished by the e-Tenderer:
he successful e-Tenderer would be required to submit the followings for approval before commencement of
installation

i lechnical submittal’ catalogue / brochures of all equipment of Electrical installations to Engineering -In-
Charge. Only after approval of such approval, e-Tenderer should place order for equipment and bring it to
site.

ii. All general arrangement drawings. ‘

iii, Complete layout dimensions for every unit/group of units with dimensions required for erection purposes.
iv Any other drawing/information not specifically/mentioned above but deemed to be necessary for the job by
the contractor.

/U) Completion Plan & Test Certificate for Electrical Installations : -

The layout ofall the installation for all services with proper dimensions, shall be finalized in consultation with the
Hngineer in charge or his representative and the lay out shall be got approved by the Engineer in charge before start of
the work

Contractor shall submit completion plan/ Electrical drawings in triplicate before finalisation of bill. Failing which
recovery (@2.5% subject to maximum of Rs. 25000/- shall be made from final bill, Test certificate for the work carried
out shall also be submitted and failing which recovery @1% maximum of Rs.1500/- shall be made from final bill,

21 Extent of work :

a) The work shall comprise of entire labour including supervision and all materials necessary to make a complete
installation and such tests and adjustments and commissioning as may be required by the department. The term
complete installation shall not only mean major items of the plant and equipment covered by specifications but all
incidental sundry components necessary for complete execution and satisfactory performance of installation with
all layout charts whether or not those have been mentioned in details in the e-Tender document in connection with
this contract.

b) Minor building works necessary for installation of equipment, foundation, making of opening in walls or in floor
and restoring to their original conditions, finish and necessary grouting ete. as required,

¢) Maintenance during defect liability period by providing spares of original manufacturer.

iy) Any item required for completion of the work but left in-advertantly shall be executed with-in the quoted rates.

‘2 The work shall be curried oul i-engineering like manner. The bad workmanship will not be accepted and defects shall
be rectified at contractor's cost of the satisfaction of the authority, NITA. The programme of electrical works are to
be co-ordinated in accordance with the building work and no claim for idle labour will stipulated in the e-Tender,
electrical work shall have to be completed along with completion of civil work.

Works to be done by the contractor

Unless otherwise mentioned in the e-Tender documents, the following works shall be done by the contractor and
therefore, their cost shall be deemed to be included in their e-Tendered cost- whether specifically indicated in the

schedule of work or not: -
KU, y

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

bh
uw

A
a

&

f

CONTRACTOR

 


--- Page 94 ---
Page |94

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

i)
ii)

ut)

v)

vi)

Suspenders, brackets and floor/wall supports for suspending/ supporting cable tray etc.

Sealing of all floor slab/wall openings provided by the Department or made by the contractor for laying of
pipes & cables from fire safety points of view,

Painting of all exposed metal surfaces of equipments and components appropriate colour as per relevant part
of bid document

Making opening in the minor wall/floors/slabs or modifications in the existing openings wherever provided
tor cable/cable tray etc. Opening in the slab/retaining walls/brick wall etc, shall be made by means of core
cutting machines only.

Making good all damages caused to the structure during installation and restoring the same to their original
finish.

Approval from Local Body as may be required as per local bye-laws. (The contractor's responsibility shall be
limited to the work executed by him.)

24. Inspection and testing of material for Electrical installation /work:

a)

b)

c)

d)

hj

i)

The authority, NI'TA or his authorized representative may inspect any material at manufacturers” works and
may witness routine tests as per relevant Indian Standard Specifications or other relevant specifications at
manufacturers” works. Main items like Electrical panels, etc shall be offered for inspection at manufacturer's
site.

The authority, NITA may wave off the inspection at his discretion and allow for dispatch of the items. But
the responsibility of the correctness of the item lies with the contractor and also should be got checked at site
by the authority, NITA or his authorized representative.

The contractor shall give in writing advance notice to the authority, NITA and arrange for such inspection /
presence for testing at manufacturer's work, The TA/DA etc. of the departmental personnel who will be
deputed to witness the tests etc. shall be bome by the Department. The authority, NITA or his authorized
representatives shall have, at all the reasonable times. access to the contractors premises or works or other
works where manufacturing / fabrication shall be done and shall have the power, at all reasonable times, to
inspect and examine the materials and workmanship during its manufacture or fabrication.

Inspection of imported materials at foreign works shall however not be carried out by the department. These
materials shall be inspected and tested at site. Manufacturers” original test certificates and document of import
/ shipment should be provided to the department along with the materials without which no payment should
be made to the contractor.

The contractor shall arrange for all the materials and labour required in connection with inspection of
equipment or for any testing to be carried out at his works / manufacturers” works or at site of installation,
Notice of such inspection / presence for testing shall be given by the contractor to the Estate Engineer at least
fifteen days in advance. Notwithstanding approval for such tests / inspection of equipment / components by
the Engineer-in charge or his authorized representative, the contractor shall be required to perform site tests as
desired by the Estate Engineer and prove the correctness of ratings and performance of equipment /
components and materials supplied and / or installed by him as per contract specifications and conditions at
his own cost.

The Estate Engineer reserves the right to reject any equipment / machinery / material, be found not comply
with contract specifications or its performance is not satisfactory on tests after installation, within the warranty
period.

Final inspection and testing will be done by the Estate Engineer or his representative as per details to be
indicated by the Estate Engineer. lt shall be the responsibility of the contractor to get the installation inspected
and passed by the local authorities concermed, as may be required by the local bye laws. The contractor will
extend all help including test facilities to the representatives of the local bodies. In case the contractor fails to
make desired facilities available during inspection, the department reserves the right to provide the same at the
risk and cost of the contractor. The observation of the local authorities will be promptly attended by the
contractor, The installation will be accepted by the department only after receiving clearance from the local
bodies / fire authorities. The inspection charges livable by the local / statutory authorities for the inspection
shall however, be borne by the department.

Copies of all documents of routine and type test certificates of the equipment, carried out at the manufacturers
premises shall be furnished to the Estate Engineer and consignee.

ven IS! marked materials shall be subjected to quality test at the discretion of the Estate Engineer besides
testing of other ovaterials as per the specifications described for the item/material. Whenever |S] marked
materials are brought to the site of work: the contractor shall, if required by the Estate Engineer, furnish
manufacturers test certificates to establish that the materials procured by the contractor for incorporation in
the work satisfy the provisions of IS codes relevant to the material and/or the work done.

Materials and equipment to be used in the work shall be inspected by the departmental officers, Such
inspection will be of following categories:

j. Inspection of materials / equipment to be witnessed at the Manufacturer's premises in accordance with
relevant BIS / Agreement Inspection Procedure.

ii.  Toreceive materials at site with Manufacturer's Test Certificate(s)

iii lo inspect materials at the authorized dealer's godown to ensure delivery of genuine materials at site.

JRA gy

CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 95 ---
 

Page |95

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

iN lo receive materials after physical inspection at site.

k) Final Inspection and testing will be done by the Estate Engineer or his representative as per specification and
CPWD General Specifications as applicable.

|) After completion of Electrical installation work in all respect the contractor shall offer testing installation.

m) Adequate care to ensure that only tested and genuine materials of proper quality are used in work shall be
ensured by firm. The firm shall ensure that:

n) Material will be ordered & delivered at site only with the prior approval of the E-I-C to ensure timely
delivery

Compliance with Regulations and Indian standards.

i All works shall be carried out in accordance with relevant regulation, both statutory and those specified by the
Indian Standards related to the works covered by this specification. In particular, the equipment and
installation will comply with the following:

i) Factories Act.

ii) Indian Electricity Rules.

!) LS. & B.S. Standards as applicable.

iv) Workmen's Compensation Act.

Vv) Statutory norms prescribed by local bodies.

Il. Nothing in this specification shall be construed to relieve the successful e-Tenderer of his responsibility for
the design, manufacture and installation of the equipment with all accessories in accordance with currently
applicable statutory regulations and safety codes.

tI Successful ¢-Tenderer shall arrange for compliance with statutory provisions of safety regulations and
departmental requirements of safely codes in respect of labour employed on the work by the e-Tenderer,

25. Indemnity:

The successful e-Tenderer shall at all times indemnify the department, consequent on this works contract. The
successful ¢-Tenderer shall be liable, in accordance with the Indian Law and Regulations for any accident occurring due
to any cause and the department shall not be responsible for any accident or damage incurred or claims arising there
from during the period of erection, construction and putting into operation the equipment and ancillary equipment under
the supervision of the successful e-Tenderer in so far as the latter is responsible. The successful e-Tenderer shall also
provide all insurance including third party insurance as may be necessary to cover the risk. No extra payment would be
Made to the suevesstul e- Tenderer due to the above

26, Erection Tools:
No tools and tackles either for unloading or for shifting the equipment for erection purposes would be made available by
the department. The successful e-Tenderer shall make his own arrangement for all these facilities.

28.Cooperation with other agencies:

lhe successful e-Tenderer shall co-ordinate with other contractors and agencies engaged in the construction of building,
any, ancexchange freely all technical information so as tw make the execution of this works contract smooth. No
renuneration should be claimed from the department tor such technical cooperation, If any unreasonable hindrance is
caused to other agencies and any completed portion of the work has to be dismantled and re-done for want of
cooperation and coordination by the successful e-Tenderer during the course of work. such expenditure incurred will be
recovered from the successful e-Tenderer if the restoration work to the original condition or specification of the
dismantled portion of the work was not undertaken by the successful e-Tenderer himself.

29. Insurance and Storage of material for Electrical component of work:
All consignments are to be duly insured up to the destination from warehouse to warehouse at the cost of the supplier.

The insurance covers shall be valid ill the equipment is handed over duly installed, tested and commissioned.

Belore commencing the exgcution of work, the Contractor shall, without in any way limiting his obligations and
liabilities. insure at his own cost and expense against any damage or loss or injury, which may be caused to any person
or property, at site of work. Also, he shall indemnify the Department from any liability during the execution of the
work. Further, he shall obtain and submit to the Estate Engineer, a third party insurance policy for maximum Rs.10 lakh

for each accident, with the Estate Engineer as the first beneficiary. The insurance shall be obtained in j

AKU
/ La YC

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

| names of

‘

    
 

CONTRACTOR


--- Page 96 ---
Page |96

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Fstate Engineer and the Contractor (who shall be second beneficiary). The contractor shall also be required to obtain
Workman compensation policy as per labour (all category) deployment and as per rule.

30. Verification of correctness of Equipment of electrical work at Destination:

The materials shall be procured only from the manufacturers and their authorized dealers and documentary proof for
such procurement and supply shall be produced by the contractor, The contractor shall have to produce all the relevant
records to certify that the genuine equipment from the manufacturers has been supplied and erected. The department
reserves the right to send such materials to the manufacturers / authorized test laboratory to verify the genuineness and
quality of the product. The Contractor shall submit all documentary details in fulfillment of this conditions regarding
procurement of materials. Contractor shall preserve the copies of invoices, test certificates; gate passes etc. to prove the
venuineness of material/purchases from manufacturer or authorized dealers which are used at site as per agreement.

31. Painting:
All equipment works shall be painted at the works before dispatch to the site.

32. Maintenance during warranty period:
a) Sufficient trained and experienced staff shall be made available to meet any exigency of work attend the complaint
during the guarantee period of one year from the handing over of the installation.
b) rhe maintenance. routine as well as preventive for one year from the date of taking over the installation as per
manufacturer's recommendation shall be carried out and the record of the same shall have to be maintained.
Nothing extra shall be paid on this account,

33. Interpreting Specifications for Electrical Installation work:
In the case of discrepancy between the schedule of Quantities, the Specifications and/ or the Drawings, the following
order of preference shall be observed:-

(i) Description of Schedule of Quantities.

(ii) Technical Specifications and Additional Conditions
(ii) CPWD Specifications

(iv) Indian Standard Specifications of B.L.S.

(iv) Drawings ifany.

In case of diserepancy among the specifications/conditions as mentioned above, precedence given in ‘General
Conditions of Contract for Central PWD Works' shall be followed,

34. The Contractor(s) shall take all precautions to avoid accidents by exhibiting necessary caution boards day and night,
speed limit boards, red flags, red lights and providing barriers. He shall be responsible for all damages and accidents
caused to existing/new work due to negligence on his part. No hindrances shall be caused to traffic during the
execution of the work. In case of any accident of labours/ contractual staff's the entire responsibility will rest on the
part of the contractor and any compensation under such circumstances if becomes payable the same shall be entirely
born by the contractor and department shall have no role on this account.

35. The Contractor(s) shall take instructions from the Estate Engineer regarding collection and stacking of materials at any
place. No excavated earth or building rubbish shall be stacked on areas where other buildings, roads, services and
compound walls are to be constructed. However if any change is required, the same shall be done with the approval of
Estate Engineer & no extra payment shall be made on this account.

36. The Main contractor shall be responsible for the watch and ward of the site /property/ material provided by him for
electrical work/ installation and materials issued by the department against pilferage and breakage during the period of
execution and thereafter till the work is completed and physically handed over to the department. He should make his
own arrangement for proper watch and ward at his risk and cost. No claim will be entertained on this account.

37. The work shall be carried out in engineering like manner and bad workmanship shall be rejected summarily. For redoing
the job. no claim of the contractor shall be entertained on this account.

34. The wontructor shall ensure quality construction in a planned and time bound manner. Any sub-standard material or
work beyond set out tolerance limits shall be summarily rejected by the Estate Engineer.

30. The work is to be carried out in accordance with the plans. The contractor shall have to engage well experienced

/yX_ £

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 97 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

skilled labour and deploy modern T&P and other equipment to execute the work. However, the contractor will be
bound to carry out the work with minor deviation over the plan supplied if desired by the Estate Engineer of the work.

0. The Main contractor or his authorized representative shall sign the site order book and comply with the remarks
entered therein by the representative of the Department.

41. The contractor will ensure that all the skilled persons managed / deployed for executing the electrical work possess
wireman license issued by approved authorities, otherwise he will not be permitted to execute the work. Also,
consequences arising due to the default of the contractor to comply with this condition would be contractor's
responsibility only.

10 SPECIAL CONDITIONS
GENERAL

1.1 The Contractors are advised to inspect and examine the site and its surroundings and satisfy themselves with the nature
of site, the means of access to the site. the constraints of space for stacking material / machinery, labour etc. constraints
pul by local regulations, if any, weather conditions at site, general ground / subsoil conditions etc. or any other
circumstances which may affect or influence their e-Tender The Contractor shall carry out survey of the work area, at
his own cost, setting out the layout and fixing of alignment of the building as per architectural and Structural drawings
in consultation with the Engineer-in-Charge. Any discrepancy between the architectural drawings and actual layout at
site shall be brought to the notice of the Engineer-in-charge. It shall be responsibility of the Contractor to ensure
correct setting out of alignment, Nothing extra shall be payable on this account. No claims, whatsoever, shall be
entertained at a later date for any errors found. on plea that the information supplied by the Department in the e-Tender
is Insufficient or is al variance with the actual site conditions.

1.2 The Contractor shall, if required by him, before submission of the e-Tender, inspect the drawings in the Office of the
Executive Engineer concerned Department shall not bear any responsibility for the lack of knowledge and also the
consequences, thereof to the Contractor. The information and data shown in the drawings and mentioned in the e-
Tender documents have been furnished, in good faith, for general information and guidance only, The Engineer-in-
Charge, in no case, shall be held responsible for the accuracy thereof and/or interpretations or conclusions drawn there
from by the Contractor and all consequences shall be borne by the Contractor, No claim, whatsoever, shall be
entertained from the Contractor, if the data or information furnished in e-Tender document is different or in-correct
otherwise or actual working drawings are at variance with the drawings available for inspection or attached to the e-
lender documents. It is presumed that the Contractor shall satisfy himself for all possible contingencies, incidental
charges, wastages, bottlenecks ete. likely during execution of work and acts of coordination, which may be required
between different agencies. Nothing extra shall be payable on this account.

1.3 The nomenclature of the item given in the schedule of quantities gives in general of the work content but is not
exhaustive i.e. does not mention all the incidental works required to be carried out for complete execution of the item
of work. The work shall be carried out, all in accordance with true intent and meaning of the specifications and the
drawings taken together, regardless of whether the same may or may not be particularly shown on the drawings and/or
described in the specifications. provided that the same can be reasonably inferred there from may be several incidental
works. which are nol mentioned in the nomenclature of each item but will be necessary to complete the item in all
respect. All these incidental works / costs which are not mentioned in item nomenclature but are necessary to complete
the item shall be deemed to have been included in the rates quoted by the contractor for various items in the schedule
of quantities. No adjustment of rates shall be made for any variation in quantum of incidental works due to variation /
change in actual working drawings. Also. no adjustment of rates shall be made due to any change in incidental works
or any other deviation in such element of work (which is incidental to the items of work and are necessary to complete
such items in all respects) on account of the directions of Engineer-in-Charge. Nothing extra shall be payable on this
account,

14 The contractor(s} shall give to the local body. police and other authorities all necessary notices etc. that may be
required by jaw and obtain all requisite licenses for temporary obstructions, enclosures etc. and pay all fee, taxes and
charges which may be leviable on account of these operations in executing the contract. He shall make good any
damage to the adjoining property whether public or private and shall supply and maintain lights either for illumination
or for cautioning the public at night.

Ti] The contractor(s) shall execute the work simultaneously at all sites. He has to establish site office alongwith all
necessary arrangements at all sites simultaneously.

1.6 The contractor(s) shall cordon off the area suitably so that the other buildings/ offices remains functional during
execution of the work

Li? StafMlabour shall be deployed for each site of work independently by the contractor.
Aa, a
ra

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 98 ---
Pave |98

Sturdernd Single Hid Dowuments for Eleetrical Works

1.44

146

1.49

1.53

RESPONSIBILITY

(i) He shall protect and indemnify the Department / CPWD and its officials & employees against any claim and
/or liability arising out of violations of any such laws, ordinances, orders, decrees, by himself or by his
employees or his authorized representatives. Nothing extra shall be payable on these accounts.

(ii) Ihe fee payable to statutory authorities for obtaining the various permanent service connections and Building
Use Certiticate for the building shall be borne by the CPWD.

(iii) | The Contractor shall assume all liability, financial or otherwise in connection with this contract and shall
protect and indemnify the Department from any and all damages and claims that may arise on any account.
The Contractor shall indemnify the Department against all claims in respect of patent rights, royalties, design,
trademarks- of name or other protected rights, damages to adjacent buildings, roads or members of public, in
course of execution of work or any other reasons whatsoever, and shall himself defend all actions arising
from such claims and shall indemnify the Department in all respect from such actions, costs and expenses.
Nothing extra shall be payable on this account,

SUPERVISION OF WORK

The Contractor shall depute Site Engineer & skilled workers as required for the work. He shall submit organization
chart along with details of Engineers and supervisory staff. It shall be ensured that all decision making powers shall
be available to the representatives of the Contractor available at site itself to avoid any likely delays on this account.
The Contractor shall also furnish list of persons for specialized works to be executed for various items of work. The
Contractor shall identify and deploy key persons having qualifications and experience in the similar and other major
works, as per the field of their expertise. If during the course of execution of work, the Engineer-in-Charge is of the
opinion that the deployed staff is not sufficient or not well experienced; the Contractor shall deploy more staff or
hetter-experienced staff at site to complete the work with quality and in stipulated time limit.

SAFETY PRACTICES

i) WARNING! CAUTION BOARDS: All temporary warning / caution boards / glow signage display such as
"Construction Work in Progress", "Keep Away", “No Parking”, Diversions & protective Barricades etc.
shall be provided and displayed during day time by the Contractor, wherever required and as directed
by the Engineer-in-Charge. These glow signage and red lights shall be suitably illuminated during night also.
Ihe Contractor shall be solely responsible for damage and accident caused, if any, due to negligence on his
part. Also he shall ensure that no hindrance, as far as possible, is caused to general traffic during execution of
the work. This signage shall be dismantled & taken away by the Contractor after the completion of work,
only after approval of the Engineer — in - Charge. Nothing extra shall be payable on this account.

ii) SIGN BOARDS: The Contractor shall provide and erect a display board of size and shape as required and
paint over it, in a legible and workman like manner, the details about the salient features of the project, as
required by the Engineer-in-Charge. The Contractor shall fabricate and put up a sign board in an approved
location and to an approved design indicating name of the project, Client/Owner, Engineer-in-charges,
Structural Consultants, Department ete. besides providing space for names of other Contractors, Sub-
Contractors and specialized agencies within 15 days from issue of award letter. Nothing extra shall be
payable on this account. In case of non compliance/delay in compliance in this, a penalty (@ Rs. 500/- per
day will be imposed which will be recovered from the immediate next R/A Bill of the Contractor.

iii) | Necessary protective and safety equipments shall be provided to the Site Engineer, Supervisory staff,
labour and technical staff of the contractor by the Contractor at his own cost and to be used at site.

iv) No inflammable materials including P.O.L shall be allowed to be stored in huge quantity at site. Only limited
quantity of P.O. may be allowed to be stored at site subject to the compliance of all rules / instructions
issued by the relevant authorities and as per the direction of Engineer -in- Charge in this regard. Also all
precautions and safety measures shall be taken by the Contractor for safe handling of the P.O.L products
stored at site. All consequences on account of unsafe handling of P.O.L shall be borne by the Contractor.

TEMPORARY WATER/ ELECTRICITY/ TELEPHONE CONNECTION
(i) Arrangement of temporary telephone connection, water and electricity required by Contractor, shall be
made by him at his own cost and also necessary permissions shall be obtained by him directly from

concerned authorities, under intimation to the Department. Also, all initial cost and running charges, and
security deposit. if any, in this regard shall be borne by him. The Contractor shall abide by all the rules/ bye

/_ DB

CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 99 ---
Page [99

Standind Single Bid Documents tor Electrical Works

laws applicable in this regard and he shall be solely responsible for any penalty on account of violation of
any of the rules/byelaws in this regard. Nothing extra shall be payable on this account,

(ii) rhe Contractor shall be responsible for maintenance and watch and ward of the complete installation and
water "electricity meter and shall also be responsible for any pilferage, theft, damage, penalty etc. in this
regard, The Contractor shall indemnify the Department against any claim arising out of pilferage, theft,
damage, penalty etc. whatsoever on this account. Security deposit for the work shall be released only after No
Dues Certificates are obtained from the local Authorities from whom temporary electric/ water / telephone
connection have been obtained by the Contractor. Nothing extra shall be payable on this account.

(iii) The Department shall in no way be responsible for either any delay in getting electric and/or water and/or
telephone connections for carrying out the work or not getting connections at all. No claim of delay or any
other kind. whatsoever, on this account shall be entertained from the Contractor. Also contingency
arrangement of stand-by water & electric supply shall be made by the Contractor for commencement and
smooth progress of the work so that work does not suffer on account of power failure or disconnection or not
getting connection at all, No claim of any kind whatsoever shall be entertained on this account from the
Contractor. Nothing extra shall be payable on this account.

1.54. CLEANLINESS OF SITE

i) Ihe Contractor shall not stack building material/malba/muck on the land or road of the local municipal
authority or on the land owned by the others, as the case may be. So the muck, rubbish etc. shall be removed
periodically as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge. from the site of work to the approved dumping grounds
as per the local byelaws and regulations of the concemed authorities and all necessary permissions in this
regard from the local bodies shall be obtained by the Contractor. Nothing extra shall be payable on this
account. In case, the Contractor is found stacking the building material/malba as stated above, the Contractor
shall be liable to pay the stacking charges/penalty as may be levied by the local body or any other authority
and also to face penal action as per the rules, regulations and bye-laws of such body or authority. The
Engineer —in-Charge shall be at liberty to recover, such sums due but not paid to the concerned authorities on
the above counts, from any sums due to the Contractor including amount of the Security Deposit and
perlormance guarantee in respect of this contract agreement.

ui) The contractor shall take instructions from the Engineer-In-Charge regarding collection and stacking of
materials at any place. No excavated earth or building rubbish shall be stacked on areas where other
buildings. roads, services and compound walls are to be constructed.

il) The site of work shall be always kept clean due to constraints of space and to avoid any nuisance to the users
of buildings in the adjacent plots. The Contractor shall take all care to prevent any water- logging at site. The
waste water. slush ete. shall not be allowed to be collected at site. It may be directly pumped into the creek
with prior approval of the concerned authorities. For discharge into public drainage system, necessary
permission shall be obtained from relevant authorities after paying the necessary charges, if any, directly to
the authorities. The work shall be carried out in such a way that the area is kept clean and tidy. All the
lees'charges in (his regard shall be borne by the Contractor. Nothing extra shall be payable on this account.

1.56 FINAL TESTING OF THE INSTALLATION

The Contractor shall demonstrate trouble free functioning of all the ELECTRICAL installations and services. The
Engineer-in-Charge or his authorized representatives shall carry out final inspection of the various ELECTRICAL
services and installations. Any defect(s) noticed during demonstration shall be rectified by the Contractor at his own
cost to the entire satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge. Nothing extra shall be payable on this account.

1.59) DEALING WITH INCONSISTENT RATES

i) rhe Contractors shall quote same rates for the identical items which may inadvertently appear in more than
one place if different rates are quoted by the e-Tenderers for such identical items, the same shall be
rationalized by considering the lowest quoted rate for such items, for evaluation and acceptance of e-Tender.

ii) Wherever any reference to any Indian Standards occurs in the documents relating to this contract, the same
shall be inclusive of all amendments issued thereto or revisions thereof, if any, up to the date of receipt of e-
Tender.

iit) Unless otherwise specified in the schedule of quantities. the rates for all items of work shall be considered,
as Inclusive of pumping out or bailing out water, if required throughout the construction period for which no

fa v ft

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 100 ---
Page |100

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

extra payment shall be made. This shall also include water encountered from any source such as rains,
floods, sub soil water table being high and/or due to any other cause whatsoever.

iv) All stone aggregate and stone ballast shall be of hard stone variety to be obtained from approved quarries,

v) Coarse sand should be obtained from approved sources. The same shall be clean and sharp angular grit type.
The coarse sand shall be screened before using, if required. If the sand brought to site is dirty, it must be
washed in clean water to bring the sand to the required specifications. Nothing extra shall be payable on
this account.

vi) The rates for all items of work, shall unless clearly specified otherwise, include cost of all operations and all
inputs of labour, material, T & P, scaffolding, wastages, watch and ward, other inputs, all incidental
charges. all taxes, cess. GST, duties, levies ete. required for execution of the work.

1.62 Training of the Personnel

The contractor shall arrange at no extra cost to the Department to train two persons from the department and two
person from the client PNB. The contractor shall arrange this training from well qualified and experience personnel
tor.at least seven days

1.64 Recording of Hindrance & Maintenance of Hindrance Register —

i) Whenever any hindrance whether on part of department or on part of contractor, comes to the notice of the Assistant
Engineer, he shall at once make a note of such hindrance in the register kept at site, and immediately make a report to
the Executive Engineer within a week.

ii) The following points shall be kept in mind while entering the hindrances in the Hindrance Register:

a) The entry of date of start of hindrance and date of removal of hindrance shall be made on the same day as the
hindrance takes place or the cause of the hindrance is removed, respectively.
bh) Phe Executive Engineer shall work out the over lapping period, net if hindrance and of each hindrance within

15 days of removal of the cause of hindrance. For work outside headquarters, this shall be done as and when
he visits the site.

c) The items of work affected due to any hindrance shall be clearly mentioned in the Hindrance Register by the
Assistant Engineer, and the weightage shall be allowed on this basis.

d) Each hindrance shall be entered in the hindrance Register, which shall be authenticated by the Executive
Engineer and Contractor.

e) The hindrance on part of contractor shall also to be entered in the Hindrance Register.
f) The hindrance shall be recorded carefully in the Hindrance Register after considering its effect on completion
of work

e) Reviews of hindrance register shall be compulsory in division office by EE and AAO at the time of payment
of cach Running Account Bill and final bill and certificate shall be recorded that all up to date hindrances on
part of department and contractor have been recorded in the hindrance register.

h) The net delay on part of department or contractor shall be worked out after considering all the hindrances
recorded in the hindrance register.
i) The authority shall review the hindrance Register whenever he visits site of work.

1.65 Safety, Health and Environment

Over and above the provisions made in CPWD Safety Code (part of latest General Conditions of contract for CPWD
works )the following will also be applicable:

In respect of all workmen directly or indirectly.employed in the work for the performance of the contractor's part of
this agreement, the contractor shall at his expense arrange for the safety provisions as per Indian Standard Safety
codes shown below and shall at his own expense provide for all facilities in connection there with. In case the
contractor fails to make arrangement and provide necessary facilities, he shall be liable to pay compensations
prescribed under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1923 as amended from time to time for each default and in addition
the Engineer-in-charge shall be at liberty to make arrangement and provide facilities as aforesaid and recover the cost
incurred on that behalf from the contractor. and no claims what so ever shall be entertained.

Details regarding some special provisions to be followed by contractor are as follows:

{a f- y

ena Tee For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 101 ---
 

Page |101

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

FOR ALL F&M COMPONENTS

| The applicant should either himself meet the eligibility conditions for the respective E&M components or otherwise
he will have to associate with agencies, fulfilling the eligibility requirements and the consent letter from at least One eligible
Associate Agency of the respective components of E&M work shall also be submitted as per attached Proforma.

In case the main contractor is himself eligible (as per eligibility criteria) for executing any specific minor
component and intends doing the job himself, he may not be required to associate with another agency for that minor
component of work. In such cases the main contractor also has to submit the documents as per eligibility criteria mentioned
tor associated ageney of individual E&M component

The main e- Tenderer have to submit the following documents for association of electrical contractor within 30 days of award
of work or 15 days before start of electrical related work whichever is earlier.

(i) In support of the eligibility conditions of the proposed associated electrical contractor, copy of their
registration documents, Electrical Contractor's License, PAN Card, GST Registration and verifiable work
completion certificates duly attested by the applicants (Main Contractor) shall be submitted to the
concemed(Minor Component in-charge) Estate Engineer, NIT Agartala, for deciding the eligibility.

(ii) Estate Fugineer. NIT Agartala. will give approval for associating within 7 days after receipt of proposal from
Mijer contractor, i submitted documents are found in order.
5 Thereafter, the main contractor will have to submit AGREEMENT signed with the approved associated agency for
minor component. The AGREEMENT shall be signed by both the parties” i.e. main contractor as Ist party and associated
electrical contractor as 2nd party for all electrical and mechanical components and submit the same within 7 days of receipt
of approval from Estate Engineer, NIT Agartala or before start of Electrical component of work, whichever is earlier.

a The main contractor has to enter into agreement with contractor associated by him for execution of minor
component, Copy of such agreement shall be submitted to Estate Engineer, NIT Agartala,

5 I the event of the concerned E&M agency (Associated agency) is not performing satisfactérily or failure of
dssaciite contractor to complete the E&M work, the main contractor on written directions of the department, shall remove
the associate agency deployed on the work and shall submit name of new. associate ageney who fulfill the conditions
mentioned in NIT to execute the left over work without any loss of time or variation in cost to the department. Such associate
shall also give an undertaking along with the main e-Tenderer that both of them shall stand guarantee for the equipments
already supplied for which payment has been released by the Department, in part. If any equipment supplied for the work,
during the currency of the earlier Associate contractor and paidpartly by the Dept., becomes redundant /not in a position to
he installed and commissioned and put to beneficial use due to change in agency for execution of E&M work, the main
contractor shall be table for replicement of the equipment(s) at no cost to Department. No change of Electrical Contractor
will be allowed without prior approval of the Estate Engineer. NIT Agartala of the work.

6 Materials for all E & M works shall be procured only from the original equipment manufacturers/ authorized dealers
of OEM. The contractor shall submit all documentary details in fulfillment of this conditions regarding procurement of
materials including relevant test certificates,

Estate Engineer, NIT Agartala shall be the Engineer-in-charge as far as electrical works are concerned, Separate e-
lender schedule abbreviated CPWD-7 and Special Conditions for Electrical Work are appended with this e-Tender, It will
be obligatory on the part of the contrdactor/e-Tenderer to sign the ¢-Tender documents for all the component parts.

k The main contractor shall be responsible and liable for proper and complete execution of the Electrical and
Mechanical component of works and ensure coordination and completion of both civil and electrical work.

9. The associate contractor along with main contractor or his representative shall attend the inspection of the work by
the Engineer-in-Charge of E&M works as and when required.

10. AI LED bulbs/LED fittings shall be guaranteed for a period of 5 years. 50% of the performance Guarantee
shall be refunded to the contractor soon ufter completion of the work and recording of the completion certificate,
50% of the performance Guarantee shall be retained as Security Deposit. 50% of the performance Guarantee shall be
retained as Security Deposit plus 2.5% Security Deposit already deducted from running bills (Total 2.5 +2.5= 5%)
shall be refund year wise proportionately,

Il. For components of E&M works, the eligibility criteria will be as detailed below:

J AU,
é

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

gr


--- Page 102 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

Page |102

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   
    
     

The contractor enlisted for eligible class in composite
category in CPWD for execution of this Sub head of work,

The main contractor shall have to associate with agency
fulfilling the following eligibility criteria processing valid
electrical license issued by competent authority having
successfully completed during last seven years ending up to
previous day of last date of submission of e-Tender as
given below with completion certificate issued by an
officer not below the rank of Executive Engineer or

Three similar completed works each of value not less than
40% of Estimated cost put to e-Tender with capacity of
individual transformer being 80% of individual capacity
(rounded off to next available higher capacity) of the

Two similar completed works each of value not less than
60% of Estimated cost put to e-Tender with capacity of
individual transformer being 80% of individual capacity
(rounded off to next available higher capacity) of the

 

One similar completed work of value not less than 80% of
Estimated cost put to e-Tender with capacity of individual
transformer being 80% of individual capacity (rounded off
to next available higher capacity) of the transformer

 

 

 

The main contractor shall have to associate with agency |
fulfilling the following eligibility criteria having
successfully completed during last seven years ending up to
previous day of last date of submission of e-Tender as given
below with completion certificate issued by an officer not
below the rank of Executive Engineer or equivalent duly

 

Three similar completed works each of value not less than

SI. Component of Eligibility
No. E & M works
\ T Providing Internal Electrical
Installations & compound lightings and
Pump set possessing valid Electrical Contractor License.
2 Sub Station Work
equivalent duly attested.
|
|
transformer proposed in the NIT,
oF
transformer proposed in the NIT
or
proposed in the NIT
Similar work shall mean “SITC of substation.”
3 Providing Fire Alarm System
attested.
40% of Estimated cost put to e-Tender

 

CONTRACTOR

 

   

/O__ oy

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 103 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

*age | 103

 

un]

CONTRACTOR

 

 

Providing Fire Fighting System

Providing of DG Set

 

 

 

 

 

or

Two similar completed works each of value not less than
60% of Estimated cost put to e-Tender

or

One similar completed work of value not less than 80% of
Estimated cost put to e-Tender

Similar work shall mean “SITC of Fire Alarm System"

 

The main contractor shail have to associate with agency
fulfilling the following eligibility criteria having
successfully completed during last seven years ending up to
previous day of last date of submission of e-Tender as
given below with completion certificate issued by an
officer not below the rank of Executive Engineer or
equivalent duly attested.

Three similar completed works each of value not less than
40% of Estimated cost put to e-Tender

or

Two similar completed works each of value not less than
60% of Estimated cost put to e-Tender

 

or

One similar completed work of value not less than 80% of
Estimated cost put to e-Tender.

Similar work shall mean “SITC of Fire Fighting System
(Water based).”

 

The main contractor shall have to associate with agency
fulfilling the following eligibility criteria processing
valid electrical license issued by competent authority
having successfully completed during last seven years
ending up to previous day of last date of submission of e-
Tender as given below with completion certificate issued
by an officer not below the rank of Executive Engineer
or equivalent duly attested.

‘Three similar completed works each of value not less
than 40% of Estimated cost put to e-Tender with capacity
of individual DG set being 80% of individual capacity
(rounded off to next available higher capacity) of the DG
sel proposed in the NIT.

AW &

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 

 


--- Page 104 ---
Page | 104

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

 

Or

 
  
   
 
 
 
   

Two similar completed works each of value not less than
60% of Estimated cost put to e-Tender with capacity of
individual DG set being 80% of individual capacity
(rounded off to next available higher capacity) of the DG
| set proposed in the NIT

or

One similar completed work of value not less than 80%
of Estimated cost put to e-Tender with capacity of
individual DG set being 80% of individual capacity
(rounded off to next available higher capacity) of the DG
set proposed in the NIT

Similar work shall mean “SITC of DG set.”

 

However, the Composite category contractor shall also be eligible to carry out himself without associating any
specialized agency (For above SI. No,-2, 3, 4&5 Components) provided:

(a) He fulfills the prescribed eligibility criteria respectively for this work,
or

ib) He directly procures the equipment of approved make trom manufacturer and gets it installed from authorized
agency! service provider of the manufacturer/ specialized agency, all as perthe eligibility criteria mentioned as
above.

Note: The value of executed works shall be brought to current level by enhancing the actual value of work at simple rate of
7% per annum calculated from the date of completion to last date of receipt of application for ¢-Tender

12 Ifthe main contractor fails to associate with agencies for execution of minor components of work within 30 days of
award of work OR 15 days before start of minor component of work whichever is earlier or furnishes incomplete
details or furnishes details of ineligible agencies even after the giving sufficient opportunity, the entire scope of such
component of work shall be withdrawn from the main agency and the same shall be got executed by the Engineer-in
Charge at the risk and cost of the main agency.

a qe

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 105 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

PARTICULAR SPECIFICATION

ae / .

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

CONTRACTOR


--- Page 106 ---
Page | 106

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

 

PECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR DRY TYPE TRANSFORMER
1.0 GENERAL

This section covers the detailed requirements regarding supply, installation, testing, commissioning and handing
over of dry type cast resin transformers as per schedule of quantities required for the sub-station.

The equipments and work shall conform to General Specifications for electrical works of CPWD (Part — I, Il, IV)
as amended up to date. BSI /IEC and relevant Indian Electricity rules, Indian Electricity Act 1910 and other
relevarit regulations with statutory regulation and safety codes that is related to the work.

2.0) CLIMATE & SITE CONDITIONS

The equipments supplied shall be suitable for satisfactory performance for the rated capacity at all weather
conditions in summer. monsoon and winter at Delhi as under: -

(a) Altitude : Jess than 1000 mtr
(b) Max. ambient air temp ; 50°C

(c) Max. daily average ambient air temp : 40°C
(d) Max. yearly weighted average ambient temp : 32°C

(e) Min, yearly weighted average ambient temp : -5°C

(tf) Temp. rise at the above conditions :
(g) By resistance method : 55°C (Max. temp. being 95°C }

(h) By Thermometer : 50°

Detailed technical specifications for the equipments and installation are indicated hereunder:
+) SPECIFICATIONS OF INDOOR DRY TYPE POWER TRANSFORMER
3.1 General Construction.

The transformers shall comply with the following Indian Standards as amended upto date :

(i) 1S 11171:1985 Dry type power transformers
Hii) TS 10028 (Part He& 11) — Installation and Maintenance of Transformers.
(iii) 1S 2099 — Bushing

(iv) 1S 2705 — Current Transformers
3,2 CONSTRUCTIONAL FEATURES

All the MS parts shall be either hot dipped galvanized or cold galvanized to make them corrosion free. The core
shall be made up of high grade low loss cold rolled grain oriented silicon steel. Both low & high voltage windings
shall be made of copper conductor. The class of winding insulation shall correspond to class ‘F’. the construction
of the windings of the transformer shall be such that no creepage path is found even in dusty & corrosive ambient
conditions. The core coil assembly shall be housed in a pre-fabricated enclosure. The enclosure shall be fabricat
with mild steel CRCA sheets with adequate provision for ventilation. The enclosure shall undergo the seven ta

fs By ge

CON TRRETOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 107 ---
Page |107

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

process. Finally the external and internal surfaces of the enclosure shall be powder coated with the required paint
9
hade

ow
a

GENERAL REQUIREMENT

The transformer shall be indoor type. Unless otherwise specified the transformer in addition shall have thermal and
dynamic ability to withstand external short-circuit as per clause 9 of IS 2026 (Part I) 1977 and clause 5 of IS 11171
— 1985,

34 CAPACITY AND RATING :

200 KVA continuous rating irrespective of tapping position,

3.8 Indoor transformer shall be suitable for [P-23 protection.

36 Temperature Rise
The reference ambient temperatures assumed for the purpose of this specification are as follows :

(a) Maximum ambient air temperature 50° C,

(b) Maximum daily average ambient air temperature 40° C.
5 #

(c) Maximum yearly weighted average ambient temperature 32° C.
(d)) Minimum yearly weighted average ambient temperature (-) 5° C.

(Z¥) Class of insulation *F"

lhe temperature rise limit at the above conditions and at the altitude not exceeding 1000 meters shall be specified.
3.7 TAP CHANGING DEVICE

lhe transformer shall be provided with an off load tap changing links or tap switch having tapping range of +5% to
7.5% in 2.5% steps on HV side so as to give a constant output voltage at LV side.

3.8 lerminal Markings Connections: Relevant provisions of 1S: 2026 (Part-IV - 1977 shall be applicable.
3.9 Voltage Ratio: The transformer shall be suitable for a voltage ratio of 11 KV/433 V.
3.10 Veetor Group: Vector group shall be Dy 11. In case of step down transformers, the winding connections shall

conform to vector group Dy | 1 unless otherwise specified.
|| Cooling: Transformer cooling shall be air and naturally cooled (AN)
4.12 \ecessories: The transtormer shall be with enclosure. HV side shall have cable end box suitable for termination of
185 Sq.mm. XLPE 11 KV grade cable and the MV side shall be suitable for termination of 240 Sq.mm. XLPE 1.1
KV grade cable,

$13 FITTINGS: The transformer shall be complete with the following fittings :-

a) Off load type tap changing link or tap switch.

1) bali: lugs for all transtormers

c) Bi-directional / Unidirectional! rollers to be specified,
d) Rating diagram and terminal marking plate for transformer,

rm

 

CORE eae For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 108 ---
Page |108

Standard Sinelé Bid Documents for Electrical Works

¢) Additional neutral separately brought out on a bushing for earthing for transformer.

as

Farth terminals (2 nos.) for body earthing for transformer.

Surge arrester on HT side on each phase.
h) Limit switch on HT side of door enclosure.

Tr

J) Inspection cover for off circuit links.
K) Necessary hardware. clamps. lugs etc. for termination on HV/MV etc. for all transformers.

3.14 RATING PLATES
A rating plate of weather proof material bearing the data specified in clause 8 of 1S: 11171-1985.

a JOINTS AND GASKETS
All gasket used for making gas tight joints shall be of proven material.

3.16 TESTS
3.16.1 TESTS AT WORKS

All routine and other test prescribed in 1S 11171 = 1985 shall be carried out at the manufacturer's works before the
dispatch of the transformer in the presence of inspecting officer. Copies of the test certificates shall be furnished to
the department. In addition to the prescribed routine tests, temperature rise test shall be invariably done on one
transformer of each design. A copy of the impulse test certificate done on the same type/design of the transformer
shall be furnished in accordance with [S 11171] : 1985 for purpose of record. If no impulse test was done in an
earlier unit of the same design and type. one transformer will be subjected to impulse test in consultation with
inspector at the firm's cost,

Copies of the certificates of type test for short circuit shall be supplied to the department.

3.16.2 TESTS AT SITE

In addition to tests at manufacturer's premises, all relevant pre-commissioning checks and tests conforming to IS
code of practice no. 10028 shall be done before energization. The following tests are to be particularly done before
cable jointing or connecting up the bus bar trunking:

a) Insulation test between HV to MV with a 5000 volts megger.
bj Insulation test between MV to earth with 300 volts megger.

c) Winding resistance of all the windings on all tap positions.

3.47 INSTALLATION AND COMMISSIONING

J qe

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 109 ---
 

Pg ge | 109

Sandard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

The transformer shall be installed in accordance with [S: 10028-Code of practice for installation and maintenance
of transformer, Necessary support channel shall be grouted in the flooring.

(i) The transtormer shall be moved to its location and shall be correctly positioned. Transformer wheels shall be either
locked of provided with wheel stoppers

(ii) Wiring of devices shall be carried out as per drawings. Earthing of neutral and body of the transformer shall be
done in accordance with section 7 of these specification.

(iit) All devices shall be checked for satisfactory operation.

(iN) All test specitied in 3.16 of these specifications shall be carried out by the contractor in the presence of inspecting
allicer / consignee free of cost

3.18 PRE BID CONFERENCE

It is proposed to hold a pre-bid conference with the Prospective ¢-Tenderers to enable them to seek clarification on
the technical specification and in e-Tender documents that they may consider necessary for submission of e-Tender
(technical bid & price bid). All clarifications sought for will be finalized during the pre-bid conference will be
circulated among all-e-Tenderers who have been issued the e-Tender documents irrespective of the fact they have
attended the pre-bid conference or not, The date and time of pre-bid conference will be informed to the e-Tenderers
al the time of issue of the e-Tender. It is upto the prospective e-Tenderers to take part in the pre-bid conference,
Non-attendance of pre-bid conference dose not debars the prospective ¢-Tenderer from participating & submission
of e-Tender. No separate pre-bid conference will be conduit for the firms who do not attend the pre-bid conference
on the date & time fixed for the purpose.

 

4 IECUNICAL SPECIFICATIONS OF MV /1 lr PANELS

Scope

This. Section covers the detailed requirements of medium voltage switch Panel for 433V, 3 phase 50 Hz 4 wire
system. All switchgears shall be fully rated at an ambient of 40° C.

4.1 Type of Panel

The medium voltage switch board panel shall comprise of anyone of the following types of switchgears or
combination thereof as specified

a) Air Circuit breakers draw out or fixed type.

b) Switch Disconnect or Fuse Units fixed type, MCCBs of suitable Ics ratings. MCCBs shall invariably be
Current Limiting type. Features like Double Break, Positive Isolation functions shall be preferred.

The Panel shall be indoor type having incoming section ligation and oulgoing switchgears as specified. The design
shall be cubical type. The degree of enclosure protection shall be IP 42 as per IS: 13947 (Part-1).

5 MEV. Panel
5.1 General Construction

Che switchboard shall be floor mounted free standing totally enclosed and extensible type. The switch board shall
be dust & vermin proof and shall be suitable for the climate conditions as specified, The design shall include all

provisions for safety of operation and maintenance personnel. The general construction shall conform to IS:
8623/1993 for factory assembled switch board.

a.2 Cubical Type Panels
5.2. Cubical type panels shall be fabricawd out of sheet steel not less than 2.0 mm thick. Wherever necessary, such

sheet si¢el members shall be stiffened by angle iron frame work, General construction shall employ the principle of
compartmentalization and segregation for each circuit, Unless otherwise approved, incomer and bus section panels

JR, Oy / i

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

é
CONTRACTOR

 


--- Page 110 ---
Page |110

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

or seetions shall be separate and independent and shall not be mixed with sections required for feeders. Each
section of the rear accessible type panel shall have hinged access doors at the rear. Overall height of the panel shall
not exceed 2.4 meters. Operating levers, handle etc, of highest unit shall not be higher than 1,7 meters.

Multi-tier mounting of feeder is permissible. The general arrangement for multi tier construction shall be such that
the horizontal tiers formed present a pleasing and aesthetic look. The general arrangement shall be approved before
fabrication. Cable entries for various feeders shall be either from top or bottom. Through cable alleys located in
hetween two circuit sections, either in the rear or in the front of the panel, All cable terminations shall be through
gland plates. There shall be separate gland plate for each cable entry so that there will not be dislocation of already
wired eirewits when new feeders are added. Cable entry plates shall therefore be sectionalized. The construction
shall melude necessary cable supports for clamping the cable in the cable alley or rear cable chamber.

Cubicle panels with more than 1000 Amps BUS shall be made of tested structural modular sections.

5.2.2 Bus Bar and Connections

The bus bars shall be of Copper of high conductivity electrolytic quality and of adequate section, Current density
shall not exceed 160 amps for Copper /sq. cm. The bus bar system may comprise of a system of main horizontal
bus bars and ancillary vertical bus bars run in bus bar alleys on either side of which the circuit could be arranged
with front access cable entries. In the case of rear access, horizontal bus system shall run suitably either at the top
ar bottom. All connections to individual circuits from the bus bar shall preferably be solid connections, however
flexible connections shall also be permitted as per recommendations of the Panel Manufacturer. All bus bars and
conimections shall be suitably sleeved | insulated in approved manner.

5.2.3 Incomer / Termination

Incomer termination shall be suitable for receiving bus trunking / underground cables. Cable terminations shall
invariably be through terminal blocks (Polyamide or superior) or brought out solid terminals.

$2.4 Instruments

All voltmeters and ammeters shall be Hush mounted of size minimum 96 mm conforming to class 1.5 of 1S:1248
for accuracy. All voltmeters shall be protected with MCR

§.2.5 Indicating Lamps

On all the incomers of M.V panels, ON/OFF indicating LED lamps shall be provided and shall be suitable for
operation on AC supply. Phase indicating LED lamps shall be associated with necessary ON/OFF toggle switch.

§.2.6 Small Wiring

AL] simall wiring for Controls, Indication ete, shall be of with suitable FRLS/HFFR (halogen free fire retardant)
copper conductor cables. Wiring shall be suitably protected within switch board, Runs of wires shall be neatly
bunehed, suitably supported and clamped. Means shall be provided for easy identifications of the wires. Where
wires are drawn through steel conduits, the works shall conform to CPWD General Specifications for Electrical
works (Part 1- Internal) - 2005 and [S: 732 as the case may be. identification ferrules shall be used at both ends of
the wires. All control wiring meant for external connections are to be brought out of terminal board.

OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS
The indoor type MV panel shall conform to the following
at) Ihe panel shall comprise of incomers, outgoing feeders and bus coupler as specified. The incomer shall be either a
double break / contact repulsion MCCB or an Air Circuit Breaker. The bus coupler shall be either a circuit breaker
or a double break / contact repulsion MCCB or switch discgnnector fuse unit as specified. The outgoing feeders
shall be circuit breakers/MCCBs as specified.

b) Bus bars for phase and neutral shall have a rating as per specifications.

4) The entire switeh panel shall be cubical type generally conforming to IS: 86231-1993 for factory assembled switch

board

dd) The incomer panel shall be suitable for receiving bus trunking or MV cable of size specified either from top or
from bottom,

e) The entire panel shall have a common earth bar of size as speci fied with two terminals for earth connections.

6 Rating and Requirements

Ji ge

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

CONTRACTOR


--- Page 111 ---
Page |111

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Warks

6.1 Switch Diseonnector Fuse Units /MCCB:

6.1.1 Switch Disconnector Fuse Units: All SDF units for feeders or outgoing circuits shall be suitable for a Breaking
capacity of 80 KA (57 MV A 433V) capacity at 433V 3 phase 50 Hz AC system conforming to 1S: 4064. The
number of units and rated current shall be as per detailed requirements specified. Switch Disconnector Fuse unit
shall be double break front operated type. The units shall be complete with following:

ay Necessary HRC cartridge fuses conforming to 18:9224 (part-ll).

b) Necessary operating mechanism quick break make type.

¢) Necessary set of CTs together with an ammeter and selector switch as specified,
d) Necessary interconnections to bus bars.

e) Necessary neutral link inside the SDF unit

n MISDE units shall be AC23A utilization category

6.2.2 MCCB : All MCCBs shall be current limiting type with features of load line reversibility and suitable for
Horizontal / Vertical mounting without any derating. Beyond 300Amps capacity MCCBs shall have positive
isolation and preferably double break [ contact repulsion & double insulation. features, The MCCBs shall
invariably be used with terminal spreaders. For all MCCBs, les= leu.

6,3 PESTS AT MANUFACTURERS WORK
All routing tests shall be carried out and test certificates produced to the department.
as INSTALLATION, TESTING & COMMISSIONING

7.1 The installation work shall cover assembly of Various sections of the panels lining up, grouting the units etc. In the
case of multiple panel switch boards after connecting up the bus bars etc., all joints shall be insulated with
necessary insulation tape or approved insulation compound. A common earth bar as per section 7 of these
specifications shall be run inside at the back of switch panel connecting all the sections for connection to frame
earth system. All protection and other small wirings for indi¢ation ete. shall be completed before calibration and
CompUSsSsioniig checks are commenced, All relays. meters ete. shall be mounted and connected with appropriate
wirlitg

12 Commissioning checks and tests shall include all wiring checks and checking up of connections. Relay
adjustment/setting shall be done before commissioning in addition to routine Megger tests. Checks and tests shall
include the following:

a) Operation checks and lubrication of all moving parts.
b) Interlock function checks
«) Continuity checks of wiring. fuses ete. as required

d) Insulation test: When measured with 500V Megger the insulation resistance shall not be less
than 100 mega ohms.
e) Trip tests and protection pear test.
73 Statutory Approvals

MII statutory approvals for commencement to commissioning of substation equipments shall be obtained by the
Contractor from the Local authority (If required). However the Department shall provide all necessary assistance
for providing documents, drawings and certificates pertaining to other contractors, as may be required. The
Department shall reimburse the statutory fees paid in connéction with the approval of installation of substation
equipments.

wi_U &

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 112 ---
Page |112
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

ADDITIONAL CONDI F IRE TING $ EM

The work shall be executed as per CPWD General specification for Electrical Works Part-V (Wet Riser & Sprinkler
Systems) 2006 amended upto date, Part-I Internal 2005, Part-II External 1994 IE rules, Indian Standards, as per Rules of
NBC 2016 & all the amendment issued upto date and as per directions of Estate Engineer. These technical specifications are
to be read in conjunction with above and in case of any variations; the specification given in the e-Tender shall be applicable.

|. In case any item/items or part of these is not covered under these specifications the same shall be carried out as per
relevant CPWD specification and NFPA-12 & 72

> ‘The make(s) of the material to be used shall be as per list of approved make attached. For items not covered in the

above clauses. the work shall be carried out as per instruetions of the Estate Engineer before using the material at

site. Sumples of material shall be got approved from Estate Engineer before using the material at site.

Statutory Approvals

All statutory approvals for commencement to commissioning of Fire Fighting System shall be obtained by the

Contractor from the Chief Fire Officer ( If Required), However the Department shall provide all necessary

assistance for providing documents, drawings and certificates pertaining to other contractors, as may be required.

The Department shall reimburse the statutory fees paid in connection with the approval of installation of Fire

Fighting System.

ted

ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS FOR FIRE ALARM SYSTEM

1. The work shall be executed as per CPWD General specification for Electrical Works Part-V1 (Fire Detection And
Alarm System) 2018 amended upto date. Part-I Internal 2005, Part-l] External 1994 LE rules, Indian Standards, as
per Rules of NBC 2016 & all the amendment issued upto date and as per directions of Estate Engineer. These
technical specifications are to be read in conjunction with above and in case of any variations; the specification
given in the ¢- lender shall be applicable.

2. [In case any item/items or part of these is not covered under these specifications the same shall be carried out as per
relevant CPWD specification and NFPA-12 & 72

3. Public address system equipment should be matching / synchronized with PA system equipment. As far as possible
equipment of Fire Alarm system / PA system shall be of single make.

4. Statutory Approvals
All statutory approvals for commencement to commissioning of fire alarm system shall be obtained by the
Contractor trom the Chief Fire Officer ( If required). However the Department shall provide all necessary
issistanve for providing documents. drawings and certificates pertaining to other contractors, as may be required.
The Department shall reimburse the statutory fees paid in connection with the approval of installation of fire alarm

system
ADDITIONAL CONDITI sh DG SE
i: TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR DG Set

The work shall be carried out as per CPWD General Specifications for Electrical Works (PartVII- DG Sets) 2013
as umended upto date and CPWD General Specifications of Electrical Works Part-1 & Part Il, as amended upto
date. relevant IE rules. and as per directions of Engineer-in Charge.

Ihe DG set should comply with the latest CPCB Norms for exhaust emission level and noise pollution
level,

J gw -

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 113 ---
 

Page |113

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS FOR HIGH MAST

I. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR HIGH MAST

1. Mast shall be cominuously tapered multifaceted and polygonal cross section. Foundation shall be as per detailed
specification of the manufacturer

2. One or 2 sections Having suitable sectional length with slip joints between sections without any circumpherencial
welding. Mast shall be constructed with $ 355 grade Gl sheet with plate thickness of 3 mm thickness and Top dia
150 mm and Bottom dia 360 mm .The base plate size shall be minimum 520 mm dia. And 25 mm thickness.

mn

3. ‘The mast shall withstand a wind speed of minimum 180 km/H

4. It should have Double drum winch with separate handle for manual operation of winch with a torque limitin
‘ * P * * . a e

device. Raising/lowering type lantern carriage designed to carry 08 nos luminaries, control assemble with weather
proof cover. Internal single power tool (electrical) for lowering & raising of high mast with separate manually
operated system shall be provided. The motor shall be minimum 0.75 HP capacity

>. Necessary suitable length for lowering & rising of lantern carriage of stainless steel wire ropes of 7/19 construction
(with coin Goran die)

6, Hinged service door in base section shall be provided with earthing terminal. Size of opening and door at base -
1050 % 225 mm

Z, Lightening conductor finial made of 25 mm dia 300 mm long Gl tube having single prong and LED type single
dome aviation obstruction light shall be provided.

8. Intergal single power tool (electrical) for lowering & raising of high mast with separate manually operated system.

9. Anchor plate, templates foundation bolts manufactured from special steel along with nuts washers ete.

10. The size of trailing cable shall be FRLS PVC insulated copper conductor 5 core 2.5 sq. mm. cable. Wiring of

luminaries wilh 1.5 sq nim FRLS PVC insulated copper conductor ¢ables ete. complete as required.

Z sK\ A Su Gb

A ses eu

ik ; one
CORTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 114 ---
re {114

I

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

ADDITIONAL TON WIRI ~

|. DISTRIBUTION BOARDS.

Distribution Board shall be standard type as per the CPWD specifications. All distribution boards shall be of three phase
(415 Volts) or single phase (240 volts) type with ineoming isolator or MCB as in Schedule of quantities. Distribution boards
shall contain plug in or bolted type miniature circuit breaker mounted on busbars. Miniature circuit breakers shall be quick
make and quick break type with trip free mechanism. MCB shall have thermal and magnetic short circuit protection. MCB
shall conform with IS 8828-1978. Neutral busbars shall be provided with the same number of terminals as there are single
ways on the board, in addition to the terminals for incoming mains. An earth bar of similar size as the neutral bar shall also
be provided. Phase barrier shall be fitted and all live parts shall be screened from the front. Ample clearance shall be
provided between all live metal and the earth case and adequate space for all incoming 13 and outgoing cables. All
distribution board enclosures shall have an etched zinc base stove painted followed by synthetic stoved enamel, colour light
gray. A circuit identification card in clear plastic cover shall be provided for each distribution board. Miniature Circuit
Breakers for lighting circuits shall be of "L" series where as “G' series MCB's shall be invariably used for motor loads,
halogen lamps fitting. sodium/mereury discharge lamps and for all power cireults. All miniature circuit breakers shall be of 9
KA rated rupturing capacity, , 3.04

2, SURFACE CONDUIT.

Conduit pipes shall be fixed by heavy gauge saddles, secured to suitable wood plugs or other approved plugs with screws in
an approved manner at an interval of not more than one meter but on either side of the couplers or bends or similar fittings,
saddles shall be fixed at a distance of 30cm from the center of such fittings. The saddles should not be less than 24 gauge for
conduits upto 25 mm dia and not less than 20 gauge for larger diameter conduits. The corresponding widths shall be 19 mm
& 25 mm, Where conduit pipes are to be laid along the trusses, steel joint etc. the same shall be secured by means of special
clamps made of MS. Where as itis not possible to drill holes in the trusses members suitable clamps with bolts and nuts shall
he used. For 25 mm diameter conduit width of clip shall be 19mm and of 20 SWG. For conduit of 32 mm and above, width
of clip shall be 25mm and of 18 SWG. Where conduit pipes are to be laid above false ceiling, either conduit pipes shall be
clamp to false ceiling frame work or suspe nded with suitable supports from the ceiling slab. For conduit pipe run along with
wall, the conduit pipe shall be clamped to wall above false ceiling in uniform pattern with special clamps if required to be
approved by the Engineer-In-Charge at site.

3. RECESS/CONCEALED CONDUIT.

Che chase in the wall shall be neatly made and of ample dimensions to permit the conduit to be fixed in the manner desired.
In the case of building under construction, conduit shall be buried in the wall before plastering and shall be finished neatly
after erection of conduit. Incase of exposed brick/rubble masonry work, special care shall be taken to fix the conduit and
accessories in position along with the building work. Entire work of chasing the wall, fixing the conduit in chases, and
burring the conduit in mortor before plastering shall form part of point wiring work. 14 The conduit pipe shall be fixed by
means of staples or by means of saddles not more than 60cm apart or by any other approved means of fixing. Fixing of
standard bends and elbows shall be avoided as far as practicable and all curves maintained by bending the conduit pipe itself
with the long radius which shall permit easy drawing in of conductors. Suitable inspection boxes to the barest minimum
requirements shall be provided to permit periodical inspection and of facilitate replacement of wires, if necessary, These
chull be mounted flush with the wall. Suitable ventilating holes shall be provided in the inspection box covers. Wherever the
length of conduit run is more than 10 meters. then circular junction box shall be provided. 3.06 OUTLET BOXES &
COVERS. The switeh box shall be made of metal on all sides except on the front, Boxes shall be hot dip galvanised mild
steel, Upto 20 x 30 cm size M.S. box shall have wall thickness of 18 SWG and MS boxes above 20 x 30 cm size shall be of
16 SWG. The metallic boxes shall be painted with anticorrosive paint before erection, Clear depth of the box shall not be less
than 60mm, All fitting shall be fitted in flush pattern. Phenolic laminated sheet of approved shade shall be used for switch
box covers. These shall be of 3 mm thick synthetic phenolic resin bonded laminated sheet as base material and conform to
grade P-| of 1S: 2036-1994.

4. FRECTION AND EARTHING OF CONDUITS.

fhe conduit if used metallic of each circuit or section shall be completed before conductors are drawn in, The entire system
of conduit after erection shall be tested for mechanical and electrical continuity throughout and permanently connected to
earth conforming to the requirement by means of special approved type of earthing clamp effectively fastened to conduit
pipe in a workmen like manner fora perfect continuity between the earth and conduit. Gas, water pipe shall not be used as
earth medium.

§. SWITCHES.
All 5 and 15 Amp switches shall be piano type of 240 volts A.C. grade. All switches shall be fixed on 3 mm thick laminated

sheet cover. All 5 Amp socket shall be 5 pin type. All 15 Amp socket shall be 6 pin type suitable for 15/5 Amp. All switches,
suckets. telephone outlets. ete. shall be in off white finish. The switches controlling the lights or fans shall be connected to

AU

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 115 ---
Page |115

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

the phase wire of the circuit. Switches shall be located at 1200 mm above finished floor level unless otherwise indicated on
drawings. In dean professor and lecturers rooms switches and socket outlets shall be modular type in modular metal box as
per BOO

6. FLUSH COVER PLATE

All switches, sockets, telephone outlets ete, shall be fixed on 3 mm thick phenolic laminated sheet cover unless otherwise
called for in drawing or BOQ. Flush cover plate shall be secured to the box with counter sunk brass screws & cup washers.

7. WALL SOCKET PLATE.

All 3 and 15 Amp socket outlet shall be 5 and 6 pin respectively. Each outlet shall have a switch located beside the socket
preferably on the same flush cover plate. The earth terminal of the socket shall be connected to the earth wire.

8. WIRING

AIL PVC insulated stranded copper conductor wires shall conform to relevant IS Codes. Cable conductor size and material
shall be specified in BOQ, All internal wiring shall be carried out with PVC insulated FRLS wires of 650/1 100 volts grade.
lhe circuit wiring for points shall be carried out in looping in system and no joint shall be allowed in the length of the
conductors. Circuit wiring shall be laid in separate conduit originating from distribution board to switch board for light/fan.
A light/fan switch board may have more than one circuit but shall have to be of same phase. Looping circuit wiring shall be
drawn in same conduit as for point wiring. Each cireuit shall have a separate neutral wire. Neutral looping shall be carried
oul Irom point to point or in light/fan switch boards. A separate earth wire shall be provided alongwith circuit wiring for each
circuit. For point wiring red colour wire shall be used for phase and black colour wire for neutral. Circuit wiring shall be
carried out with red, yellow or blue colour PVC insulated wire for RYB phase wire respectively and black colour PVC
insulated wire for the neutral wires. Bare copper wire shall be used as earth continuity conductor and shall be drawn
alongwith other wires, No wire shall be drawn into any conduit until all work of any nature, that may cause injury to wire is
completed. Care shall be taken in pulling the wires so that no damage occurs to the insulation of the wire. Before the wires
are drawn into the conduit, the conduits shall be thoroughly cleaned of moisture, dust and dirt. Drawing and jointing of
copper conductor wires and cables shall be as per CPWD specifications.

4. MAINS AND SUIBMAINS

Mains and sub-main cable where called for shall be of the rated capacity and approved make. Every main and sub-main shall
be 17 drawn into an independent adequate size conduit. Adequate size draw boxes shall be provided at convenient locations
to facilitate easy drawings of the sub-main & main cables. Cost of junction box/drawn box is deemed to be included in the
rates of sub main wiring. As independent earth wire of proper rating shall be provided for every sub-main, Single phase sub
main shall have single earth wire whereas three phase sub main shall be provided with two earth wire. The earth wire of
proper rating shall be fixed to conduits by means of suitable M.S. clips at not more than 1000 mm distance. Where mains and
sub-mains cables are connected to the switchgear, sufficient extra lengths of sub main and mains cable shall be provided to
facilitate easy connections and maintenance. For termination of cables creeping type cable socket/lugs shall be provided,
Same color code as for circuit wiring shall be followed

10. LOAD BALANCING

Balancing of circuits in three phase installation shall be planned before the commencement of wiring and shall be strictly
adhered to.

11. COLOUR CODE FOR CIRCUIT & SUBMAIN WIRING.

Colour code for circuit and submain wiring installation shall be Red, Yellow. Blue for three phases. Black for neutral and
yellow green or green only for earth in ease of insulated earth wire

Q
h
%

fy - oy

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 116 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

  

Page |116

PECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR ELECTRICAL WORK /INSTALLATION

ad

14.

All the works shall be carried out as per CPWD General Specifications for Electrical Works Part-I (Internal) 2013
& Part-Il (External) 1994 Electricity Act, 1910 and Indian Electricity Rules, 1956 amended up to date.

General requirements of components:

2.1. The MCB should be of same make as that of MCB DBs,

22. The fan box cover shall be made from thick phenolic laminated sheet cover as per CPWD specification.

23. The metallic junction boxes & looping boxes shall be covered with approved makes of phenolic laminated
sheet. For telephone. television & fire alarm system shall be provided at all the floors within scope of work
without any extra cost as per requirement & layout approved by Engineer- in-charge.

Ratings of components:

All components in a wiring installation shall be of appropriate ratings of voltage, current and frequency, as required

at the respective sections of the electrical installations in which they are used.

The laying of conduit in roof will be done properly and with due care and coordination with other agencies, The
contractor shall keep a close watch on civil work and maintain proper coordination among all other discipline so
that the laying of electrical conduit on toof slab is done as soon as the roof shuttering is ready,

The layout and orientation of conduit in roof slab as well as that in wall and position of DBs, switch boxes and
fiuings shall be finalized in consultation with the Estate Engineer or his authorized representative and as per
drawings approved by the department, the conduit layout drawings are to be submitted by the contractor as per the
site feasibility. Sizes of the conduits shall be as per the CPWD specification, When any deviation from the drawing
is required, the same shall be finalized in consultation with the Estate Engineer or his authorized representatives.
The decision of the Estate Engineer is final. The wires / cables used for point wiring, circuit wiring, sub-main
wiring, power wiring and other wirings shall be done by FRLS grade PVC insulated copper conductor single core
cable of 1100 V grade and of makes as specified in the list of accepted makes of materials. All the wires should be
terminated to the switch box / DB / MCB ete. by crimping with suitable size tinned copper lugs, unless the wire is
single stranded. Nothing extra shall be paid on this account.

Changes / revisions incorporated by the civil wing in the construction and / or modification done in the drawings
shall have to be co-related and decision of the Estate Engineer should be obtained in case of any change. Junction
boxes / pull through boxes of appropriate size shall be provided wherever required withih the quoted rates,
However, the length of conduit will be measured on linear basis wherever specified for linear measurements,
including the length of box. Where more than one conduit is laid side by side, instead of small junction boxes for
each conduit one composite / common junction box shall be used within the quoted rates. Hidden / concealed items
and earthing work shall be done in the presence of the Estate Engineer of the work or his authorized representative
only.

The contractor shall give due notice for such work in advance to the department, The wireman / electrician engaged
shall possess. valid electrical workman permit in appropriate category as per prevailing rules, Recess type fittings
which shall have to be fixed in false ceiling in recess, if any, shall be hanged from the real ceiling by conduit / GI
wire or chain as required for which nothing extra shall be paid,

Wires to be terminated up to the fittings through the steel conduit / PVC flexible conduit as required. The extended
portion shall be deemed to be included in the point wiring, nothing extra shall be paid. The GA drawing showing
jayout of the main board, allied equipment, if any, shall be got approved by the contractor from the Estate Engineer
before fabrication and execution.

The contractor shall have to furnish the insulation test report, earth test report, along with all required details of
electrical load on the prescribed Performa for the electric connection from the supply company. The contractor
shall submit the completion certificates and completion plan as per clause 1.26 of General specification for
Electrical work (Part-| Internal )}-2013.

The chases in wall shall be done by chase cutting machines, for which the contractor shall arrange adequate

numbers of chase cutting machines i.e. chase cutters for cutting chases in wall etc. for laying of conduit within the
scope of work within the quoted rates.

Unless otherwise single sided signage is specifically requisitioned by the Estate Engineer, the LED type electric
signage shall be of both sided type. The signage shal! be with battery backup for 2 hours. The inscription shall be
as to be decided by the client / Engineer in charge. The photo luminescent signage may have to be installed on wall
‘in recess or to be hanged from ceiling, In case of hanging from ceiling, suitable anti-corrosive steel chains should
be used for hanging the signage. Electrical connection to the signage shall be done by 2 x 1.5 sq.mm copper
conductor single core FRLS PVC cable to be drawn with PVC sleeve / PVC flexible conduit as deemed fit.

The connections of switches, sensors. carthing conductors & interconnections cables shall be made by adequate
niting thimbles of approved standard makes only and nothing extra on this account shall be paid. If not complied,
recovery shall be made @ Rs.S0/ point / MCB. During lying of conduit, Fish wire shall be drawing into conduit
without any extra cost. If not complied, recovery shall be made @ Rs.50/ point / MCB.

Modular type switches / sockets / telephone outlets / TV sockets are to be provided wherever indicated in the items,
The same shall be of only one make. The modular plates of switches, sockets, telephone & TV sockets ete. shall be

feu__ 2

CONTRACTOR

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 117 ---
Page |117

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

in two parts i.e. plates with metal base frames within quoted rates, Switch with power point will be with On/Off
indicating lamp.
15, Metal double door DB shall have minimum IK 9 protection. Agency will submit technical submittal for same.
16. Adequate care to ensure that only tested and genuine materials of proper quality are used in work shall be ensured
by firm
17. Similarly, for fabricated equipment. the contractor will first submit dimensional detailed drawings for approval
before fabrication is taken up in the factory. Suitable Stage inspection at factory also will be made to ensure proper
use of materials, workmanship and quality control.
18. The contractor shall give a trial run of Electrical Installation/ machinery for establishing its capability to achieve
the specifications within laid down tolerances to the satisfaction of the Estate Engineer,
19. Provisions for services and proper planned of electrical work:-
| The main contractor shall make provision such recesses, holes, openings, etc., as may be required for the electric,
dir conditioning and other related works, The main contractor has also to fix inserts, sleeves, brackets, conduits,
base plates. insert plates. clamps ete. if any at the time of casting of concrete, stone work & brick work. These
| inserts. sl¢eves. brackets. conduits, base plates, insert plates, clamps ete. shall be arranged by the contractor and
shall be paid accordingly if these are not the part of equipment for which it is being provided,
|
|

20. — The contractor shall ensure quality construction in a planned and time bound mariner. Any substandard material or
work which is not within permissible tolerance limits shall be summarily rejected by the Estate Engineer.

21. The contractor shall make sample of installation using all approved materials, for approval of Estate Engineer

before commencement of execution of mass scale work.

<<. Check nuts shall be provided while terminating the M.S. conduits in switch board boxes for which nothing extra
shall be paid

All distribution boards shall be marked with circuits controlling the rooms/area/SDB controlled (preferable PVC

Suckers). For noncompliance recovery shall be made (@ Rs. 1000/- per DB.

24. — Contractor will not provide any ceiling rose/connector/looping box etc. wherever false ceiling is being provided,
The point wiring in that case will be extended up to the false ceiling level with suitable size connector and Flexible
metal conduit. The wire from the end point up to the fixture shall be considered to be included’in the point wiring,
Nothing extra shall be paid for the same.

25. In electrical installation, only rigid conduits shall be used. Wherever providing of rigid conduits is not possible,
flexible conduit pipe shall be provided for drawing/running the wires. However, such arrangement has to be kept
mininum and only with the prior approval of Estate Engineer or his authorized representative.

26. — Earthing and all items of work that cannot be checked later on are to be got approved from Estate Engineer or his
authorized representative before proceeding further,

27. The contractor shall follow the shortest route for circuits, sub main, point wiring etc.

<9. — To facilitate drawing Gl fish wire shall be provided along with laying of recessed conduit. Nothing extra shall be
paid on this account.

<7. All hardware items such as screws, thimbles, connectors, earth /- neutral terminals, wires etc, which are essentially
required for completing any item as per specifications will be deemed to have been included in the item even when
the same have not been specifically mentioned,

30, All hardware material such as nuts / bolts / screws / washers ete. to be used in the work for switches shall be zinc /
cadmium plated iron. The galvanized boxes of modular switch / sockets ete. shall be of the same make as of switch

socket ete.

31. all earthing material (plate, strip, wire) should be hot dip galvanized as. All concealed works and earthing shall
have to be done in the presence of Estate Engineer or his authorized representative.

32. — While laying conduit, suitable minimum number of junction boxes shall be left for pulling the wires, These shall be
placed in such a way that the same do not remain noticeable.

33. The ceiling roses wherever required to be provided are included in the scope of work without extra payment and
the same shall also be of modular type & of the same make as that of switches & sockets along with earthing
provision

34. The main contractor and his associate has to go through the site order book regularly and has to sign the same by

authorized representative and carryout the instructions recorded therein by various officers of the department,

35. All MCCB for outdoor panels shall have rotating operating handle. For Indoor panel, MCCB above 100
Amp rating shall have rotating operating handle.

36, CONTROL PANNEL -

i. The power and control panel shall be fabricated out of sheet steel totally enclosed, free standing floor
mounted /wall hanging cubicle type and front operated. All connections shall be accessible from the front. It
shall be preferably made in cubicle sections. such as incomer, main pump, pressurization pumps and diesel
fire pump control ete. so that there is no mix up of power and control wiring and connections in the same

sections and as far as possible segregated except where they have to come together on a unj uch as relay,
AGL a
eo Panaas

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 118 ---
Pa

re | 118

ci

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

~

vontactor ete. Sheet steel used shall not be less that 2.0 mm thick. Front doors shall be hinged type. All
indication lamps. Instruments. meters ete, shall be flush mounted in the front.

ii. Before manufacturing of electrical panel Contractor will panel drawing for approval.

iil. All live part of panel shall be well protected from direct contact after opening of panel.

iv. Panel should fulfill required IP protection.

Vv. All MCCB compartment will have name plate indicating its rating and space for location name.
vi. Earth strip terminal shall be provided on both side of panels.

eo
_

AKU,

a

INTRACT
ETA Ns For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 119 ---
Page |119

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

 

The materials of first/standard quality from the following preferred makes are to be used, In case it is established
hat the brands specified below are not available in the market. contractor shall submit alternative proposal for the approval
ol bngmeer-in-Charge

The contractor shall provide the materials as per the Make or Brand indicated below. The contractor shall obtain the
approval of Engineer-in-Charge for the alterative brands, before the actual execution of items.

AL General Materials.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Se No | _ Product om Make
| PRLS PVC Insulated copper conductor | RR Kabel/ Havells / Finolex! Anchor/ KEI/Polycab/L&T/ Mescab/
cable — IS! marked Crompton
|
z PVC Conduits and accessories (ISI | Avon Plast/ Precision/ Sudhakar/ Diamond/ AKG/ Bajaj plast/ Finolex
marked)
3 | Steel Conduit ( 1S] marked ) BEC/ RM CON/Bharat/ Gupta/ NIC
|
! MCB DBs’ Industrial Socket outlets’ | Legrand/Siemens /Hager/ Schneider Electric! L&T /Indo Asian/
MCBs/RCCBs Havells/ Mescab/ Crompton
ae | MCCBs Legrand/Siemens /Hager/ Schneider Eleciric/ L&T/Indo si
| Havells/ Mescab/ Crompton
6. Co-axial TV Cable RR Kabel/ Havells / Finolex/ Anchor/ KEI/Polycab
7 Feluphone Cable RR Kabel/ Havells / Finolex/ Anchor/ KEVPolycab |
8 | Motor Starter _ | ABB/ BCH) GE) L&T/ Siemens/Havells/GE
9. Contactors/ Timers | GE/ L&T/ Siemens/ Schneider Electric/ Havells
10. Cat-6 LAN cable D-link/Finolex/ Systimax/ D-G Link/Poly Cab |
1! Modular Switches / Sockets / TV Socket Legrand / MK /Crabtree (Havells)’ Panasonic! Schneider
Telephone sockets / Data sockets / Anchor/Havells/Lé& T/GE
Llectronie Regulators ete

 

 

 

 

Ceiling rose Antex/ Leader’ Emperor/ Anchor/L&T/Havells/GE

  
  
  
  

 

 

PVC batter’ Angle Holders Aristo/ Antex/ Prakash / Kinjal/ Anchor/L&T/Havells/GE

Crompton Greaves/ Orient / Bajaj / Usha/Havells |

 

 

Ceiling fans, Wall Fans

 

 

  

 

 

 

15 | Exhaust fans Crompton Greaves/ Usha / Orient! Bajaj/ Usha/Havells

16. ie panels _ CPRI Approved manufacturer 4
. ee |

17.

| LED Light Fixtures Philips/ Havells/ Crompton/ Wipro

  

 

 

a We

CORTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 120 ---
Page |120

Standard Single Bid Documents lor Electrical Works

 

   
   
   
    
  
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[Sr.No _| Product Make
| 18. | beop-in. Loop-out Street light boxes Hensel/Sintex/Supreme/Devi Polymers Sontay
k = 7 . . . .
20 Gil octagonal poles | Bajaj/Philips/AD Pole & High Mast/Skipper/J K Poles & Pipes/Jindal
Power Corporation/ Chennai Poles
a,
21. G.l. pipes TATA/JJINDAL/ZENITH
| 22. HDPE Pipe (ISI Marked) Sudhakar/Supreme/REX/Finolex/Kelvin/ Prince
= |
23. GM Valves (1S1 marked) Leader! Zoloto/ Deepak/Kirloskar
24 Water Supply pumpsets Kirloskar/KSB/Texmo
| 2s, ‘Transformers Kappa/L&T/Gilbert/AE
26. Instrument meters/ Selector switches Rishab/Kaycee/ProkDevices/Conzerv/Secure/ AE/ Salzar/BCH
27 = Indication lamps and push buttons | BCH/L&T/Tetemecanique/Siemens/ Vaishnav/ Emco/ Kaycee
| 28. KY grade Aluminium = &Copper
conductor, XLPE insulated armoured UG Universal/CCI/Nicco/Havells/Gloster/RPG/ Polycab/Finolex
Cables
29. Fire Extinguishers Cease fire/ Safex/ Agni/ Minimax
30. Submersible Pump set Kirolkar Model-KOS/335 KSB/ Texmo
oe | Disc Insu lator Pin Insulator : Aditya Birla’ Reliance Potteries/ J.k. Shah
| 32 ACSR Conductors | Deora/ Satyashree balaji/ K.M/ Arrow Cable. |
ef |
33 G.l Wire Bansal/ Omkamal/ National Wire
oe ee |—
4 Steel tubular pole Utkarsh/ subham/ Bansal

 

33 | Aluminium jugs Dowells/ Havells/ Schneider

| 36 Busbar, Main switch | Havells/L&T/ABB/C&S

 

 

 

 

 

| All other items shall be of ISI marked/as per approved sample kept al site of work.

*

_|
oe
a

 

 

A we

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 121 ---
Page |121

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS

 

1. This document shall be read in conjunction with the other e-Tendering Documents.

2. The work shall be carried according to the description of the Item(s) in the Bill of quantities attached in
Part-I.

klectrical Works:-

CPWD General Specifications (Latest Edition) for Electrical Works(Part-I, Internal) ,(Part-Il, External)
with Correction Slips upto date of receipt of e-Tender.

All installations shall comply with the requirements of Indian Electricity Rules, 1956 and Indian Electricity
Act-1910 as amended upto date, and bye-laws of Tripura Electricity Department or any other concerned
Department with Latest Edition of receipt of e-Tender,

SPECIAL CONDITION

I, Before submitting the e-Tender, the e-Tenderers are to satisfy themselves by actual visit to site, regarding availability
of labour and materials and site conditions and any claim of the e-Tenderer after submission of e-Tender shall nat
be entertained afterwards in respect of non-availability of labour, materials and site conditions.

2 During the period, prior to the handing over of the work complete in all respects to the Engineer-In-Charge, damages
to the work, if any, is to be made good by the contractor at his own cost and noting extra will be paid.

3. The contractor shall be responsible for the true and prefect setting out of the work and correctness of the position,
level. and dimensions of all parts of the work. If at any time during the progress of the work shall any error arise in
the position, level. ar dimensions of any part of the work, ete, the contractor shall be liable to rectify or change as
directed hy the | ngineer-In-Charge at his own cast and risk

4. The work, which does not conform to specification, must be struck down and rejected materials removed from the
site of works as directed by the Engineer-in-Charge.

 

— No

JoS_

ONTR Od erie
COAST! For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

—_


--- Page 122 ---
Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

VOLUME -Il

BILL OF

CONTRACTOR

UANTITIES

Page | 122

—

 

Ry =

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 123 ---
Page | 123

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

SCHeEpuLE -A

Date

To

Ihe Registrar,

NUL, Agartala, West Tripura

Authorized address for communication:-
Telephone nos:-

Mobile Nos:-
Fax no:-

Email 1D:

Name of Work: Supply and installation of electrification works in the Reaction Engg. lab (CRF-301) under DST sponsored
research project of Bio- Engineering Deptt. at NIT Agartala.

|, UWE offer to execute the work(s) described above and remedy any defects therein with conditions of the contract,
specifications, drawings, Bill of quantities and Addenda for

#—For Henr-rate Contract Rémi
_ (in words)

b For Percentage Rate contract @_ _ %o (in figure)

I l/ WE undertake to commence the work(s) on receiving the notice to proceed with work in accordance with the
contract documents,
2. This e-Tender and your written acceptance of it shall constitute a binding contract between us. | understand that
you aré not bound to accept the lowest or any e-Tender you receive,
I/WE hereby confirm that this e-Tender complies with the e-Tender validity and earnest money required by
the e- Tendering documents and specified in NIT,

Authorized Signature
Name and Title of Signatory Mei

Name of the E-Tenderer

Address

/ GU,

 

CONTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 124 ---
Page |124

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

BILL OF QUANTITIES

PREAMBLE

1. The Bill of quantity shall be read in conjunction with the instruction to E-Tenderer, conditions of contract,
Specifications and drawings.

2.1 For the construction works, the quantities given in the Schedule of quantities are estimated, and are given to
provide a common basis for e-Tendering. The basis of payment will be the actual quantities of the work ordered and
carried out, as measured and verified by the Engineer and valued,

a. At the rates and prices e-Tendered in the Schedule of quantities in the case of Percentage rate e-Tender; and
b. Al percentage rate above or below or at par of the schedule of rates as e-Tendered by the contractor.

2.2 The rates and prices e-Tendered in the priced bill of quantities shall, except in so far as it is otherwise provided
under the contract, include all constructional plant, labour, supervision, materials, erection, maintenance, insurance,
profit, taxes and duties, together with all general risks, liabilities and obligations, etc. set out in the contract.

Note:-Unless otherwise mentioned latest CPWD works Manual, General Condition of Contract (GCC), GFR and
Vianual for Procurement shall be followed for settlement of any issues.

4 1 — OH

@Z

CONTRACTOR : .
ACT For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 125 ---
Page |125

Stundard Single Bid Documents tor Electrical Works

Bill of Quantity

Name of Work: Supply and installation of electrification works in the Reaction Engg. lab (CRF-301) under DST sponsored
research project of Bio- Engineering Deptt. at NIT Agartala.

 

— Deseription Qnty. Unit Rate (Rs.) Amount (Rs.)

 

 

Wiring for light point’ fan point’ exhaust fan point/ call bell point
with 1.5 sq.mm FRLS PVC insulated copper conductor single core

| cable in surface / recessed medium class PVC conduit, with
modular switch, modular plate, suitable Gl box and earthing the
point with 1.5 sq.mm. FRLS PVC insulated copper conductor single
core cable etc. as required,

 

 

 

 

 

A | Group: 6 | Each | 783.00 4698.00
| ma me —— +
u Croup € 8 Each 990.00 7920.00
bc ees abi ele
» | Supplying and fixing brass batten/ angle holder including 4 Each 117.00 468.00

connection ete. as required, i

Installation, testing and commissioning of pre-wired, fluorescent

fitting / compact fluorescent fitting of all types, complete with all

accessories and tube ete. directly on ceiling’ wall, including 6 Each 168.00 1008.00

connection with 1.5 sq. mm FRLS PVC insulated, copper
| conductor, single core cable and earthing etc. as required.

 

 

ier}

7 + ‘ = oe = +.
Installation. testing and commissioning of ceiling fan, including
wirtng the down rods of standard length (upto 30 em) with 1.5 sq.
ma ERLS PVC insulated. copper conductor, single core cable ete.

as required.

[ Supplying and fixing two module stepped type electronic fan
5 regulator on the existing modular plate switch box including 4 Each 342.00 1368.00
connections but excluding modular plate ete. as required, :

Supplying and fixing modular blanking plate on the existing
é modular plate & switch box excluding modular plate as required. = cae 3200 380.00

 

 

Each 171.00 855.00

 

 

 

 

 

Supplying and fixing following size/ modules. Gl box alongwith
modular base & cover plite for modular switches in recess etc as
| required
I) —

A | 4 Module (125mm X 75mm) 30 Each 287.00 8610.00

|B | 12 Module (125mm X 125mm) 15 | Each 383.00 5745.00

 

Cc 12 Module (200mm X 150mm) 20 Each 434.00 $680.00

 

Supplying and fixing following modular switch’ socket on. the
8 existing modular plate & switch box including connections but
excluding modular plate ete. as required.

 

 

A 3/6 amps switch 86 Each

 

 

|B | 15/16 A switch 25 | Each

2 3 pin 5/6. amp socket outlet 80 Each
7 Ba ee +
1) 6 pin [3/16 A socket outlet | 25 Each 175.00 4375.00

8 Each 1232.00 9856.00
fa L ~Y 2

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Supplying and fixing 20 amps, 240 volts, SPN industrial type,
socket outlet, with 2 pole and earth, metal enclosed plug top
alongwith 20 amps “C" curve, SP, MCB, in sheet steel enclosure, on
surface or in recess, with chained metal cover for the socket out let
and complete with connections, testing and commissioning etc. as
required.

   
 
  

 

 

 

 

CONTRACTOR

 


--- Page 126 ---
Page | 126

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Warks

| Supplying and fixing following way, single pole and neutral, sheet
| steel, MCB distribution board, 240 volts, on surface/ recess,
| 10 | complete with tinned copper bus bar, neutral bus bar, earth bar, din
| | bar. interconnections, powder painted including earthing etc. as

required. (But without MCB/RCCB/Isolator)

4 8 was, Double door 2 | Each 1760.00 3520.00

— —
Supplying and fixing following way. horizontal type three pole and
neutral, sheet steel, MCB distribution board, 415 volts, on surface/
11 | recess, complete with tinned copper bus bar, neutral bus bar, earth
bar. din bar, interconnections, powder painted including

earthing etc. as required. (But without MCB/RCCB/Isolator) i

 

 

 

 

| A | 4 way (4 + 12). Double door 3 Each 3068.00 9204.00

 

Supplying and fising 3 amps to 32 amps rating. 240/415 volts, “C"

j> | Sure. miniature circuit breaker suitable for inductive load of
~ | following poles in the existing MCB DB complete with
connections, testing and commissioning etc. as required.

A | Single pole | 20 | ach 199.00 3980.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

|B Single pole and neutral 15 | Each 544.00 8160.00
Supplying and fixing following rating. four pole. 415 volts. isolator |
13 | iy the existing MCB DB complete with connections. testing and
commissioning ele. as required
A | 40 amps | Each 832.00
ion

Hl

$39.00

 

 

|
|
| B 63 amps 4 Each

Supplying and fixing following rating, four pole, (three phase and |
neutral), 415 volts, residual current circuit breaker (RCCB), having
14 | a sensitivity current upto 30 milliamperes in the existing MCB DB |
| complete with connections. testing and commissioning etc. as |
| required

 

   
 

 

| A 40 amps 2 Each 2626.00 $252.00

63 amps 2 Each 2777.00 5554.00
Wiring for circuit/ submain wiring alongwith earth wire with the
is following sizes of FRLS PVC insulated copper conductor, single
nis | core cable in surface/ recessed medium class PVC conduit as
required
= = = — SSS he
\ 2% LAsy, mm + | NX 1S sq. mm earth wire 72 Meter 146.00
B 2 X 2.5 sq. mm + | X 2.5 sq. mm earth wire 540 | Meter 167.00

10512.00

90180.00

C | 2X4sq.mm+ I X 4 sq. mm earth wire 320 | Meter 200.00 64000.00
=

D | 2X 6sq.mm-+ | X 6sq. mm earth wire 260 | Meter 249.00 64740.00
I 1X Gsq. mm * 2 X 6 sq. mm earth wire 140 | Meter 394.00 55160,00
Laying of one number PVC insulated and PVC sheathed / XLPE
1g | power cable of 1.1 KV grade of following size direct in ground
including excavation, sand cushioning, protective covering and
refilling the trench ete as required. | |

Above 35 sq. mm and upto 95 sq. mm 20 Meter 338.00 6760.00
ares

r—

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
  
  

 

 

CONTRACTOR


--- Page 127 ---
 

Page |127

Standard Single Bid Documents for Electrical Works

 

  
  
  
 

Laying and fixing of one number PVC insulated and PVC sheathed/
| 17 | Metre XLPE power cable of 1.1 KV grade of following size on wall
surface as required.

 
 

 

 

 
  

pve 35 sq. 95 sq. : wi x3mm MS
A ae 35 sq. mm and upto 95 sq. mm (clamped with 25x3mm M Meter 104.00 2080.00
| flat clamp)
oe —— ———eo
} birthing with Go. earth pipe 4.5 metre long. 40 mm dia including
1g | accessories. und providing masonry enclosure with cover plate 3

| having locking arrangement and watering pipe ete. with charcoal/
coke and salt as required.

 
  

  
  

 

| 19 Providing and fixing 25 mm X $ mm G.I. strip on surface or in
recess for connections etc. as required

r baa om

 

   

Supply of 1200 mm Sweep, BEE § Star rated Ceiling Fan with low
power constiimption of about 50 Watts, high permeability grade

  

 

  

aN ut 5 2150.00 10750.00
electrig steel lamination for improved life, glossy power coated
paint for superior finish and longer life.
| 21 | Supply of 1OW LED lamp 150.00

   
     

Supply of decorative ultra slim round profile 20 W LED 6000K
22 | LED tube set fixture with extruded polycarbonate, environmental 10 Each
friendly. energy efficient.

   

 

4320.00

    

 

Supply. Installation. Testing & Commissioning of Split type 1.5
fon capueiy Air-Conditioners with minimum BEE 5 Star rating
conforming to relevant IS with amendment upto date and additional
parameters for operation on single phase AC supply suitable for 230
Volts (+/- 10%), 50 Hz capable of performing functions such as (a)
oe Cooling, (b) Dehumidifying, (c) Air circulating, (d) Filtering and (e)
“| Ventilation including providing and fixing suitable MS bracket on
the existing wall/ floor with supply and laying of 25 mm dia PVC
pipe alongwith accessories on surface of the wall to drain out
condensed water from indoor unit including providing & fixing of
copper pipe of supply and return refrigerant with suitable insulation
| etc. us required

  

8 Each 42500.00

   

340000.00

 

 

 

Total in figure Rs. 7,93,687.00

Quoted Rate in fiqure Excess/Less %

The Financial Bid is available on the e-procurement website
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app

é

GUNTRACTOR For and on behalf of NIT Agartala
