
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 68

 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,
AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, P.O- NIT Agartala, West Tripura, Pin: - 799046,
Url :- www. nita.ac.in

DNleT No.: 139/NITA/Estate Elect. /2023-24

Name of Work: 7
Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract

(CAMC) of Split/ Window/ Cassete type Air
Conditioner alongwith Deep freezers & Water
Coolers installed at various department of NIT
Agartala.

Certified that this DNleT contains 68 (Sixty Eight) pages numbered from 1 to 68

Ma yy Pe ae Ma

J.E (Elect.) A.E (Elect.) Estate Engineer Associate Bean (P&D) Elect.

Draft Notice Inviting e-Ter:der containing 68 (Sixty Eight) pages is hereby
APPROVED

a

2A-\V-9OS
Dean (P&D) en

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 2 ---
Page 2 of 68

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INDEX
SL. Contents Page No
No.
Notice Inviting e-Tender 3-4
A Schedule of Important Events / Activities rT 5-6 |
B Guidelines for e-Tendering 7-8
C Other information and terms & conditions 9-13 7
D Bidder Qualification Criteria 14-14 |
E List of Documents to be scanned and uploaded 15-15
F Safety Codes 15-15
G Fire Safety I 15-15
H Form of Performance Security (Guarantee) “16-17
| Integrity Pact and others | 18-25 |
J * lagreaimant | 26-28 “
K General Condition of Contract 29-29
L__|Scope of Work and Terms & Conditions of Contract 30-51
M | Formats for Different Forms/Certificates 52-65 1
N Financial Bid 66-68
Contractor

For and on.behalf of NIT Agartala

ju


--- Page 3 ---
  

US Berra AVI STITT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura, India, Pin-- 799046

 
     

No.F.NITA.23(291E)/Estate Elect./2023/.. 9k 2) 96 evseseaee Date:-3../..)2/2025

Press Notice Inviting E-Tender (PNIe-T)

On behalf of NIT Agartala, the Registrar NIT Agartala invites Item rate/Percentage rate e-tender from the
eligible registered bidder for 02 (Two) nos. Electrical works upto 05:00 PM on 28/08/2025. For details,
please visit http//www.nita.ac.in & https://e rocure.gov.in. Date of opening of bid on
29/08/2025 at 11:00 AM.

Any subsequent corrigendum will be available in the website only. a

Registrar, NIT Agartala

To,

Ridge Advertising & Marketing Consultants, F-32, 1st Floor (Back Side), Roshpa Tower, Main
Road, Ranchi-834001, Jharkhand, with a request to publish the notice in 03 (Three) Local Newspapers
i.e. Dainik Sambad, Tripura Times & Tripura Observer including 2 (Two) newspapers i.e. Assam Tribune &
Times of India (North East) on OS’ / Q8 /2025.

Copy to:
1. P.S. to the Director, for kind information of Director please.

The Nodal Officer, e-Procurement, NITA with a request to kindly arrange uploading the Tender

Documents in the CPP portal https://eprocure.gov.in/cppp.
3. A.R (Purchase)/A.R (Admin-2), NIT Agartala with a request to uploading the Tender documents in
the Institute website site & CPP portal https://eprocure.gov.in/cppp and complete all procedure.

2.

4, The A.R (Finance), for kind information.

5. Mr. Kamal Kanti Paul, System Administrator with a request to uploading the Advertisement and
relevant documents in the website: https://eprocure.gov.in/epublish/app & http://www.nita.ac.in.

Bhi»
Registrar, NIT Agartala

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, P.O- NIT Agartala, West Tripura, Pin: - 799046, Tel. No. 038 1-2346630/6629,
Fax. No. 0381-2346360, Url -- www.nita.ac.in


--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 68

National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura, India, Pin-- 799046
PRESS NOTICE INVITING e-TENDER

No. F.NITA-23(291E)/Estate Elect./2023

Sealed Item rate e-tenders are invited for and on behalf of NIT Agartala from Central &
State Public Sector Undertaking / Enterprise and eligible Contractors / Firms / Agencies of
appropriate class registered with state PWDs / CPWD/ MES Railway / P & T or others registered
firms as per following tables.

 

 

Si Earnest | Contra a aa Date of
No Name of Work Money ct — of Opening (If

(Rs.) period LL (Rs.) | bid/offers. possible)
Comprehensive Annual v

Maintenance Contract
(CAMC) of __Split/ Initially |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Window/ Cassete type fora /....12024
1 Air Conditioner Rs. period Rs. 500/- a (Upto wee / 22/2024
* | alongwith Deep | 63,000/- of 3 , 5 00 PM) (at 11.00 AM)
freezers & Water (Three) a‘
Coolers installed at Years
various department of
NIT Agartala |

 

Eligible bidders shall participate in bidding only in online through website
https://eprocure.gov.in.Bidders are allowed to bid 24x7 until the time of Bid closing, with
option for Re-Submission, wherein only their latest submitted Bid would be considered for
evaluation. The e-Procurement website will not allow any Bidder to attempt bidding, after the
scheduled date and time. Submission of bids physically is not permitted.

Earnest Money(Refundable) and Bid Fee/tender cost(Non-Refundable) are to be paid
/transferred separately to the Institute Account No.30936141729, IFSC
CODE:SBINO011491, MICR No:799002525, State Bank of India, NIT Agartala Branch,
through Electronic Transfer/Online transfer system.

Bid(s) shall be opened through online by respective Bid openers on behalf of the NIT
Agartala and the same shall be accessible by intending Bidder through website
https://eprocure.gov.in. However, intending bidders and other Bidders may like to be present
at the Bid opening.

For any enquiry, please contact by e-mail to estateelectrical.nita@gmail.com &
estatesectioncivil@gmail.com.

Any subsequent corrigendum will be available in the website onl _

 

Details are available in the Institute’s website: http//www.nita.ac.in &

https://eprocure.gov.in

 

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Jl ¥


--- Page 5 ---
Page 5 of 68

TS Waal HI SPT ae
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura, India, Pin-- 799046

NOTICE INVITING eTENDER

Ref: eTender Notice No. F.NITA-23(291E)Estate Elect./2023

NIT Agartala invites online Item rate tender through e-procurement portal for
the under mentioned work at NIT Agartala from the eligible bidders as per the
eligibility criteria mentioned in the tender document. The details are given
below:

 

A. | Schedule of Important Events / Activities a

A.1 Information Related to Bid

 

A.1.1  |DNleT No. : 139/NITA/Estate Elect. /2023-24

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

re, f Work Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract
-1.2° |Name of Wor (CAMC) of Split/ Window/ Cassete type Air
Conditioner alongwith Deep freezers & Water
Coolers installed at various department of NIT
__| Agartala |
3 M D . Rs. 63,000/- (Rupees Sixty Three Thousand Only)
A.1. aa pay Ep esr by e-payment through electronic mode.
4 Tender Processing Fee Rs. 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) by e-
A.1. (Rs.) payment through electronic mode (Non-
Refundable)
: Initially for a period of 3 (Three) Years and it will
ARO aSe period be extended to 4° & 5 year based on the
satisfactory performance and subject to approval o
: the authority.
Mode of submission of .
A.1.6 Tender | iin nivee only 4 3 |
Contractor Forand on behalf of NIT Agartala

M_ &


--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 68

A.2 Key Events and Dates

 

A.2.1 | Publishing Date 15/02/2025

Bidders may visit at NIT Agartala
campus from 48./92/2024- to
A.2.2 Period of seeking clarification 49/96) 2025- upto 05.00 PM on all
~~ working days for the work related to
| site visit.

   
   
 
 
   
   
 
   
  

 

 

 

Last date and time of closing of
uploading/online submission of tender
A.2.3 | including scanned copy of EMD and
tender Processing Fee details/receipts
and other documents as specified

 

Upto 05:00 PM on 49/93/2025"

 

 

A2.4 Date & Time of online opening of bid

 

| 11:00 AM on 48/988/2024°

 

 

 

A.3. Other Important Information Related to Bid

     
  
   
   

 

Performance | 5% of tendered value on acceptance of bid.

 

Guarantee j
Bidders will have to deposit the Tender Processing Fee and
EMD through On-Line mode only. Details for the same are as
below:
Name of beneficiary :NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Mode of AGARTALA
payment of Address : Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura-799046
A.3.2 Tender Account No. : No.30936141729,

eet MICR No:799002525
Name of the Bank —:State Bank of India
Address of the bank = :NIT Agartala

 

 

IFSC Code : SBINO011491
Bidders will have to upload scanned copy of Payment details
towards cost of tender processing fee & EMD during the
submission of tender and the same will be accepted only on
verification & confirmation by the Institute. Any delay in credit
will not be entertained by the Institute.

A.3.3 |Bid Validity 180 Days from the date of opening of Bid.

 

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

ae


--- Page 7 ---
Page 7 of 68

 

| B. ‘Guidelines for e-Tendering |

 

Bs it is mandatory for all the applicants to have class II or Ill digital signature
certification from licensed certifying agency like NIC, MTNL, e-mudra, TCS,
safescrypt, GNFC etc.

B.2 Detailed NIT can be viewed free of cost on NIT Agartala website under the
URL_http://www.nita.ac.in/tenders/ . Schedule of quantities (Financial bid form) can
be downloaded only from https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. Uploading of
tender will be possible only after making payment of Tender Processing Fee and
EMD.

B.3 The tender shall be submitted online in the prescribed format before the
date and time as mentioned in NIT. No other mode of submission is acceptable.

B.4 The applicant have to upload the details of e-payment of processing fee &
EMD before the last date & time and download the tender documents from the e-

tendering portal https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.

B.5 Tenderer are advised to upload their documents well in time to avoid last
minute rush on the server or complication in uploading. NIT Agartala will not be
responsible for any type of problem in uploading the documents. No hard copies for
tender submission shall be entertained.

B.6 Online bid documents submitted by intending bidders shall be opened only of
those bidders, who has deposited e-Tender Processing Fee and Earnest Money Deposit
and other documents scanned and uploaded are found in order.

B.7 Information and Instructions for bidders posted on website shall form part
of bid document.

B.8 The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of
quantities of various types of items to be executed and the set of terms and
conditions of the contract to be complied with and other necessary documents can

be seen and downloaded from website https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app free

of cost.
B.9 Bids from Joint Ventures are not acceptable.
B.10 On opening date, the contractor can login and see the bid opening process.

After opening of bids he will receive the competitor, bid sheets.

B.11 Contractor can upload documents in the form of JPG format and PDF format.

Contractor Fora n behalf of NIT Agartala

ANF


--- Page 8 ---
Page 8 of 68

B.12 The price bid format is provided in a spread sheet file like BoQ_price
bid.xls, the rates offered should be entered in the allotted space only and uploaded
after filling the relevant columns. The Price Bid/BOQ template must not be
modified/replaced by the bidder; else the bid submitted is liable to be rejected for
this tender.

B.13 Completed Tenders containing technical bid and price bid will be received
ONLINE only on CPP Portal website https://e rocure.gov.in/eprocure/app at the fixed
time and date indicted in the NIT. The Tenderer will be at liberty to be present either in
person or through an authorized representative at the time of opening of the Bid with the
Bid Acknowledgement Receipt or they can view the bid opening event online at their
remote end.

B.14 If there are any clarifications, this may be obtained online through the tender
site, or thro’ the contact details. Bidder should take into account the corrigendum
published before submitting the bids online.

B.15 It is construed that the bidder has read all the terms and conditions before
submitting their offer. Bidder should go through the tender schedules carefully and upload
the documents as asked; otherwise, the bid will be rejected.

B.16 The bidder has to digitally sign and upload the required bid documents one by
one as indicated. Bidders to note that the very act of using DSC for downloading the bids
and uploading their offers shall be deemed to be a confirmation that’ they have read all
sections and pages of the bid document including General conditions of contract without
any exception and have understood the entire document and are clear about the
requirements of the tender requirements.

B.17 The bidders are requested to submit the bids through online e-tendering system
to the Tender Inviting Authority (TIA) well before the bid submission end date & time (as
per Server System Clock). The TIA will not be held responsible for any sort of delay or the
difficulties faced during the submission of bids online by the bidders at the eleventh hour.
Tenderers are advised to upload their documents well in time to avoid last minute rush on
the server.

B.18 The time settings fixed in the server side & displayed at the top of the tender

site, will be valid for all actions of requesting, bid submission, bid opening etc., in the e-
tender system. The bidders should follow this time during bid submission.

Contractor For and_on behalf of NIT Agartala

J *


--- Page 9 ---
Page 9 of 68

 

 

; C. | Other information and terms & conditions |
C.1 The bid submitted shall become invalid and e-tender processing fee shall
not be refunded if:
° If the bidder is found ineligible.
° If the documents submitted by the successful bidder does not

match with the originals before the award of work.

C.2 The Contractors/companies that were black listed at any stage need
not to apply.

C3 The Turnover certificate from CA (Chartered Accountant) for three years
showing annual turnover which should not be less than Rs. 25 Lakhs in average. As
per Annexure-2 Scanned copy of certificate from Chartered Accountant to be
uploaded.

C.4 IF ANY INFORMATION FURNISHED by the applicant is found to be incorrect
at a later stage, they shall be liable to be debarred from tendering/ taking up
works in NIT AGARTALA.

C5 The competent authority on behalf of the Director NIT Agartala does not
bind itself to accept the lowest or any other bid and reserves to itself the authority
to reject any or all the bids received without the assignment of any reason. All
bids in which any of the prescribed condition is not fulfilled or any condition
including that of conditional rebate is put forth by the bidders shall be summarily
rejected.

C.6 Canvassing whether directly or indirectly, in connection with bidders is
strictly prohibited and the bids submitted by the contractors who resort to
canvassing will be liable for rejection.

C.7 The competent authority on behalf of the Director, NIT Agartala reserves
to himself the right of accepting the whole or any part of the bid and the bidders
shall be bound to perform the same at the rate quoted.

C.8 The bid for the works shall remain open for acceptance for a period of
ninety (180) days from the date of opening of bid. If any bidders withdraws his
bid before the said period or issue of letter of acceptance, whichever is earlier,
or makes any modifications in the terms and conditions of the bid which are not
acceptable to the department, then the NIT Agartala shall, without prejudice to
any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit 100% of the said earnest money
as aforesaid. Further the bidders shall not be allowed to participate in the
rebidding process of the work.

Contractor For ang,on behalf of NIT Agartala

f_


--- Page 10 ---
Page 10 of 68

C.9 This notice inviting Bid shall form a part of the contract document. The
successful bidders/contractor, on acceptance of his bid by the Accepting Authority

shall within 15 days from the stipulated date of start of the work, sign the contract
consisting of:-

* The Notice Inviting Bid, all the documents including additional conditions,
specifications, General Conditions of Contract and drawings, if any, forming part
of the bid as uploaded at the time of invitation of bid and the rates quoted online

at the time of submission of bid and acceptance thereof together with any
correspondence leading thereto.

* Any other Standard CPWD Form /other forms as applicable/mentioned.

C.10 Mode of payment of Tender Processing Fee and EMD: Bidders may deposit

the Tender Processing Fee and EMD through online mode only. Details for the same
are as below:

Name of beneficiary —: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Address : Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura-799046
Account No. : No.30936141729, MICR No:799002525
Name of the Bank :State Bank of India

Address of the bank :NIT Agartala

IFSC Code : SBINO011491

Bidders will have to upload scanned copy of Payment details towards cost of
tender processing fee & EMD during the submission of tender and the same will
be accepted only on verification & confirmation by the Institute. Any delay in
credit will not be entertained by the Institute.

C.11 TAXES: -

i) This is Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract. The taxes as applicable
shall be deducted from each bill paid to the contractor.

i) Item rate should be inclusive of GST and other charges.

ii) Income Tax and Cess as applicable shall be deducted from each bill paid to
the contractor.

iii) | Contractor should be registered under EPF and as per law, shall pay EPF
of contract workers to concerned Department from time to time.

iv) Any other taxes/cess as per Government directives shall be deducted from

each bill paid to the contractor from time to time or as per rule in case of
manufacturer.

C.12 For any queries regarding e-tendering process, the bidders are requested
to contact as provided in the tender document. Parallely, for any further queries,

the bidders may send a mail over to estateelectrical.nita@gmail.com &
estatesectioncivil@gmail.com

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

QA &


--- Page 11 ---
Page 11 of 68

C.13 The specifications, Terms & Conditions, other regulations which are not
herein mentioned will be guided by relevant CPWD guidelines, manual,
specifications / BIS / IS/ Other Central / State Govt. norms applicable for NIT Agartala &
as prescribed by the OEM and the decision in this regard will be guided by the decision of
the respective authority of NIT Agartala which shall be final and binding to the contractor.

C.14 Tender documents may be downloaded from Central Public Procurement
Portal_https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. Aspiring Bidders/ Suppliers who
have not enrolled / registered in e-procurement should enroll /register before
participating through the website https: //eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. The
portal enrolment is free of cost.

C.15 Tenderers can access tender documents on the website, fill them with
all relevant information and submit the completed tender document into

electronic tender on the website https: //eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.

C.16 Tenders and supporting documents should be uploaded through e-
Procurement. Hard copy of the tender documents will not be accepted.

C.47 In the event of acceptance of a tender, the documents submitted by the
successful bidder shall be verified with the originals before the award of work.

C.18 The tenderer should not have been blacklisted or debarred by any
Central/ State / Public Agency from carrying out similar business during last three
financial years.

C.19 The party whose tender has been accepted has to execute an agreement
immediately after LOA/LOC is issued.

C.20 Performance guarantee @ 5% of tendered amount has to be furnished
within 15 (Fifteen) days of issue of LOA.

C21 If called for, originals of the document submitted shall be produced.

C.22 Latest General condition of contract (GCC) of CPWD will be applicable to
the extent relevant to the job.

C.2d The security deposit will be collected by deductions from the running
bills of the Bidders at the rate 10% including earnest money and “Performance
Bank Guarantee” (5%).The earnest money and Performance Bank Guarantee shall
be treated as part of security deposit. A sum @ 10% of the gross amount of the bill
shall be deducted from each running bill of the Bidder till the sum along with the
earnest money and “Performance Bank Guarantee”(5%). equal to amount of 10% of
the bided value of the work execution.

C.24 Any dispute is subject to the jurisdiction of Civil Court, Tripura.

Contractor For apd on behalf of NIT Agartala

Ai +


--- Page 12 ---
Page 12 of 68

C.25 This work covers “Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (CAMC)
of Split/ Window/ Cassete type Air Conditioner alongwith Deep freezers &
Water Coolers installed at various department of NIT Agartala”

C.26 The work shall be executed as per CPWD general specifications for
electrical works with upto date amendments as per relevant IS/ BIS /Other Central
Govt./state Govt. norms, OEM standards applicable and as per directions of Engineer-
in-Charge. These additional specifications are to be read in conjunction with
above. However, nothing extra shall be paid on account of these additional
specifications & conditions as the same are to be read along with schedule of
quantities for the work.

C.27 Necessary clarification required by the NIT Agartala shall have to be
furnished by the Tenderer within the time given by the NIT Agartala for the same.
The Tenderer will have to depute his representative to discuss with the officer(s)
of the NIT Agartala as and when so desired. In case, in the opinion of the NIT
Agartala a Tenderer is taking undue long time in furnishing the desired
Clarifications, his bid will be rejected without making any reference.

C.28 A tenderer will also not be allowed to withdraw or modify any
condition at a time after the bids have been accepted by the NIT Agartala.

C.29 The Tenderer should in his own interest visits the site and familiarize
himself with the site conditions before tendering.

C.30 No T&P shall be issued by the NIT Agartala and nothing extra shall be
paid onaccount of this.

C.31 The Tenderer will have to fill up their rates only in the price bid in BoQ
format inclusive of Taxes, packing & transportation charges or any other charges
of the materials. Tenders in which the price bids are given in any other format are
liable to be rejected.

Cae The NIT Agartala reserves the right to reject any or all the price bids and
call for fresh prices/ tenders as the case may be without assigning any reason.

C.33 All materials, articles and workmanship shall be of respective best
quality and kind for the class described in the schedule of quantities and
specifications. All materials, so used in different items of work shall be subject to
the approval of the Engineer- in-charge.

C.34 The payment shall be on the actual quantity executed under CAMC
Services.
C.35 No extension of time shall be granted to the contractor on account of

rains or inclement weather conditions.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Wy A &


--- Page 13 ---
Page 13 of 68

C.36 Terms of Payment:

Payments shall be released as per General Conditions of contract and the
following conditions.

e The payment will be made Half-Yearly on receipt of bills and supporting
documents after satisfactory and successful services.

¢ If the work carried out by the contractor is not satisfactory, NIT Agartala
shall hold such bills till satisfactory services are provided.

e Any amount due from the contractor to NIT Agartala will be recovered from
his bill.

C.37 Performance Guarantee:

The contractor whose bid is accepted will be required to furnish performance
guarantee of 5% (Five Percent) of the bid amount within 15 (Fifteen) days of issue
of LOA. This guarantee may be in the form of Banker's cheque of any nationalized
bank/Demand Draft of any nationalized bank. In case the contractor fails to
deposit the said performance guarantee within the period as indicated above,
including the extended period (Maximum allowable extension with another 07 days
with late fee @ 0.1% per day of Performance Guarantee amount), the Earnest
Money deposited by the contractor shall be forfeited automatically without any
notice to the contractor.

C.38 Refund of performance guarantee: The performance guarantee shall be
refunded to the contractor six months after the completion of the work.

C.39 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND INDIAN STANDARDS: All works
shall be carried out in accordance with relevant regulation, both statutory and
those specified by the Indian Standards related to the works covered by these
specifications.

C.40 INDEMNITY: The successful tenderer/bidder shall at all times indemnify
the NIT Agartala, consequent on this works contract. The successful
tenderer/bidder shall be liable, in accordance with the Indian Law and Regulations
for any accident occurring due to any cause and the NIT Agartala shall not be
responsible for any accident or damage incurred or claims arising there from
during the contract period under the supervision of the successful tenderer/bidder
in so far as the latter isresponsible.

C.41 Mobilization advance: Not Applicable.

Contractor For on behalf of NIT Agartala

J fh


--- Page 14 ---
Page 14 of 68

 

_D. | Bidder Qualification Criteria

   

 

The qualification criteria are as follows:

1. Work Experience: The bidders having experience of successfully completed
similar nature of CAMC works during the last 3 years ending last day of the
month previous to the one in which applications are invited. The works
completed up to previous day of last date of submission of tenders shall also
be considered.

:, Annual Financial Turnover: The Turnover certificate from CA (Chartered
Accountant) for three years showing annual turnover which should not be less
than Rs. 25 Lakhs in average. As per Annexure-2 Scanned copy of certificate
from chartered accountant to be uploaded.

3. Self declaration by bidder that they have not been blacklisted by any
Ministry/Department/Govt. organization of Central/State or any Public sector
organization or there is no litigation with any organization on account of
similar type of services as per Annexure-3.

4. Self declaration by bidder that no Judicial case is pending in court of law
against firm as per Annexure-3.

5. Duly signed declaration regarding acceptance of terms and conditions of the
tender by bidder as per Annexure-4.

6. Previous experience for last 3 years & work in hand. (Specific work completion
certificate with satisfaction & work orders shall be produced.)

7. Personal and Bank details of bidder as per Annxure-5.

8. Certificate from the Manufacturer of Air-Conditioning materials, certifying the
bidder as the authorized representative / Dealer / Vendor of the Manufacturer.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

WA #


--- Page 15 ---
Page 15 of 68

 

Le List of Documents to be scanned and uploaded : S |

 

While submitting bid, the Scanned copies of the following certificates
are to be uploaded:

i) Certificates of Work Experience: Work Orders along with Completion
Certificates issued by any officer of the Department.

ii) Certification of Incorporation/ Registration of firm

iii) CA Certificate for Annual Financial Turnover for the FY 21-22, 22-23, 23-24.
iv) PAN (Permanent Account Number)

v) GST (Goods & Services Tax) Registration Certificate

vi) Bank Account Detail.

vii) EPF & ESIC registration certificates

viii) E-payment details towards cost of tender processing fee & EMD

ix) Aadhaar card copy of the authorized officer of the company/firm
who will be signing agreement etc.

x) Undertaking having gone through the documents as per the Annexure-1.
xi) Any other document that bidder felt necessary in support of his candidature.

xii) Schedule of Price Bid in the form of BoQ_.xls

F.

 

 

 

Safety Codes : m

Relevant safety codes of the CPWD to the extent applicable to the NIT
Agartala. Decision in this regard will be governed by the competent authority
of NIT Agartala which shall be final and binding to the contractor.

|G. Fire Safety " |

This will be as per the Fire Safety codes of the CPWD to the extent applicable
to the NIT Agartala. Decision in this regard will be governed by the competent
authority of NIT Agartala which shall be final and binding to the contractor.

 

 

 

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

[Mr &


--- Page 16 ---
Page 16 of 68

   

_H. Form of Performance Security (Guarantee) _ —

 

 

 

| Form of Performance Security (Guarantee) Bank Guarantee Bond |

 

In consideration of the Director, NIT Agartala (hereinafter called “The NIT
Agartala”) having offered to accept the terms and conditions of the proposed
AGrEEMENt DECTWEEN...........eeseseeseseseseseeees AINE vannsineaas s0u ewe veee (hereinafter called
“the said Contractor(s)”) for the Work....ssssssscssssesecsesssesssssesecssesseccecsessessceeees
(hereinafter called “the said agreement”) having agreed to production of an
irrevocable Bank

Guarantee for Rs. ............ PURO Siiscenasncackevesnasmeretie only) asa
security/guarantee from the contractor(s) for compliance of his obligations

in accordance with the terms and conditions in the said agreement.

1. We, ... cece eeecceeecceeeeeaes (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank”) hereby
undertake to pay to the NIT Agartalaan amount not exceeding Rs.
ssiissncenesnaaenanseieeite . (Rupees.............Only) on demand by the NIT Agartala.

De’ ‘WO, aiscucmmmmenraniiitedannnmed (indicate the name of the Bank) do hereby

undertake to pay the amounts due and payable under this guarantee without
any demure, merely on a demand from the NIT Agartala stating that the
amount claimed as required to meet the recoveries due or likely to be due
from the said contractor(s). Any such demand made on the bank shall be
conclusive as regards the amount due and payable by the bank under this
Guarantee. However, our liability under this guarantee shall be restricted to
an amount not exceeding RS.........scssceeceeee . (Rupeesonly)

3. We, the said bank further undertake to pay the NIT Agartala any money
so demanded notwithstanding any dispute or disputes raised by the
contractor(s) in any suit or proceeding pending before any court or Tribunal
relating thereto, our liability under this present being absolute and
unequivocal. The payment so made by us under this bond shall be a valid
discharge of our liability for payment there under and the Contractor(s) shall
have no claim against us for making such payment.

4, We, scrccrssnscessosenenerasetscseses (indicate the name of the Bank) further agree
that the guarantee herein contained shall remain in full force and effect
during the period that would be taken for the performance of the said
agreement and that it shall continue to be enforceable till all the dues of the
NIT Agartala under or by virtue of the said agreement have been fully paid
and its claims satisfied or discharged or till Engineer-in- Charge on behalf of

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

A ©


--- Page 17 ---
Page 17 of 68

the NIT Agartala certified that the terms and conditions of the said
agreement have been fully and properly carried out by the said Contractor(s)
and accordingly discharges this guarantee.

5. WO, ceececsccsscsssesssssscseseeseees (indicate the name of the Bank) further agree
with the NIT Agartala that the NIT Agartala shall have the fullest liberty
without our consent and without affecting in any manner our obligation
hereunder to vary any of the terms and conditions of the said agreement or
to extend time of performance by the said Contractor(s) from time to time or
to postpone for any time or from time to time any of the powers exercisable
by the NIT Agartala against the said contractor(s) and to forbear or enforce
any of the terms and conditions relating to the said agreement and we shall
not be relieved from our liability by reason of any such variation, or extension
being granted to the said Contractor(s) or for any forbearance, act of
omission on the part of the NIT Agartala or any indulgence by the NIT
Agartala to the said Contractor(s) or by any such matter or thing whatsoever
which under the law relating to sureties would, but for this provision, have
effect of so relieving us.

6. This guarantee will not be discharged due to the change in the
constitution of the Bank or the Contractor(s).

Tx bir WOscscxssees eat bveusal ess (indicate the name of the Bank) lastly undertake

not to revoke this guarantee except with the previous consent of the NIT
Agartala in writing.

8. This guarantee shall be valid UP tO w.ccuccecccsesesesseesees unless extended on
demand by the NIT Agartala. Notwithstanding anything mentioned above, our
liability against this guarantee is restricted to RS.......... (RUPEES ....... 20000. )

and unless a claim in writing is lodged with us within six months of the date of
expiry or the extended date of expiry of this guarantee all our liabilities under

this guarantee shall stand discharged. Dated the.............. day of
ddetajantacss pashawnnexs for................ (indicate the name of the Bank).
Contractor For and on kehalf of NIT Agartala

pr &


--- Page 18 ---
Page 18 of 68

 

 

   

INTEGRITY PACT

Sub: DNleT No.: 139/NITA/Estate Elect./2023-24 for the work of
“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (CAMC) of Split/ Window/ Cassete
type Air Conditioner alongwith Deep freezers & Water Coolers installed at
various department of NIT Agartala.”

Dear Sir,

It is here by declared that NIT Agartala is committed to follow the principle of
transparency, equity and competitiveness in public procurement. The subject
Notice Inviting e-Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made on the condition
that the Bidder will sign the integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of
tender/bid documents, failing which the tenderer/bidder will stand disqualified
from the tendering process and the bid of the bidder would be summarily
rejected.

This declaration shall form part and parcel of the Integrity Agreement and signing
of the same shall be deemed as acceptance and signing of the Integrity
Agreement on behalf of the NIT Agartala.

Yours faithfully

Registrar, NIT Agartala

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

a


--- Page 19 ---
Page 19 of 68

Letter of Transmittal

To,
The Registrar,
NIT Agartala,

Sub: DNleT No.: 139/NITA/Estate Elect./2023-24 for the work of
“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (CAMC) of Split/ Window/ Cassete
type Air Conditioner alongwith Deep freezers & Water Coolers installed at
various department of NIT Agartala.”

Dear Sir,

|/We acknowledge that NIT Agartala is committed to follow the principles
thereof as enumerated in the Integrity Agreement enclosed with the tender/bid
document.

|/We agree that the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made
on the condition that I/We will sign the enclosed integrity Agreement, which is
an integral part of tender documents, failing which I/We will stand disqualified
from the tendering process. |/We acknowledge that THE MAKING OF THE BID
SHALL BE REGARDED AS AN UNCONDITIONAL AND ABSOLUTE ACCEPTANCE of this
condition of the NIT.

I/We confirm acceptance and compliance with the Integrity Agreement in letter
and spirit and further agree that execution of the said Integrity Agreement shall
be separate and distinct from the main contract, which will come into existence
when tender/bid is finally accepted by NIT Agartala. I/We acknowledge and
accept the duration of the Integrity Agreement, which shall be in the line with
Article 1 of the enclosed Integrity Agreement.

I/We acknowledge that in the event of my/our failure to sign and accept the
Integrity Agreement, while submitting the tender/bid, NIT Agartala shall have
unqualified, absolute and unfettered right to disqualify the tenderer/bidder and

reject the tender/bid is accordance with terms and conditions of the tender/
bid.

Yours faithfully

(Duly authorized signatory of the Bidder)

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 20 ---
Page 20 of 68

INTEGRITY AGREEMENT

This Integrity Agreement is made at ............++. On UGia in. eee day of ...........
2024

BETWEEN

The Director, NIT Agartala represented through Registrar, NIT Agartala,
(Principal /Owner)

CeCe See SSeS E SESE EEE EHO SESE EEEEHH EH OEHEH OE EHOEHSHHES SESE HEESHEHESOSHEHHEHEOHHSEH EH EHHTEST ESOS EOS

Individual/firm/Company)
FROUGH soars «-sicsiawn Eveeenie nies <baeew eae h BOM PERNT ed oad ERD ESMPIREIGA sles HE TEES. 0»

(Hereinafter referred to as the (Details of duly authorized signatory)
“Bidder/Contractor” and which expression shall unless repugnant to the
meaning or context hereof include its successors and permitted assigns)

Preamble

WHEREAS the Principal /Owner has floated the Tender vide DNleT No.:
139/NITA/Estate Elect./2023-24 (Hereinafter referred to as “Tender/Bid”)
and intends to award, under laid down organizational procedure, contract for
“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (CAMC) of Split/ Window/
Cassete type Air Conditioner alongwith Deep freezers & Water Coolers
installed at various department of NIT Agartala” hereinafter referred to as the
“Contract”.

AND WHEREAS the Principal/Owner values full compliance with all relevant laws
of the land, rules, regulations, economic use of resources and of
fairness/transparency in its relation with its Bidder(s) and Contractor(s).

AND WHEREAS to meet the purpose aforesaid both the parties have agreed to
enter into this Integrity Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “Integrity Pact”
or “Pact”), the terms and conditions of which shall also be read as integral part
and parcel of the Tender/Bid documents and Contract between the parties.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of mutual covenants contained in this Pact,
the parties hereby agree as follows and this Pact witnesses as under:

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Aih__ &


--- Page 21 ---
Page 21 of 68

Article 1: Commitment of the Principal/Owner

(1) The Principal/Owner commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent
corruption and to observe the following principles:

(a) No employee of the Principal/Owner, personally or through any of
his/her family members, will in connection with the Tender, or the execution of
the Contract, demand, take a promise for or accept, for self or third person, any
material or immaterial benefit which the person is not legally entitled to.

(b) The Principal/Owner will, during the Tender process, treat all Bidder(s)
with equity and reason. The Principal/Owner will, in particular, before and
during the Tender process, provide to all Bidder(s) the same information and will
not provide to any Bidder(s) confidential / additional information through which
the Bidder(s) could obtain an advantage in relation to the Tender process or the
Contract execution.

(c) The Principal/Owner shall endeavour to exclude from the Tender process
any person, whose conduct in the past has been of biased nature.

(2) If the Principal/Owner obtains information on the conduct of any of its
employees which is a criminal offence under the Indian Penal code
(IPC)/Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (PC Act) or is in violation of the
principles herein mentioned or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard,
the Principal/Owner will inform the Chief Vigilance Officer and in addition can
also initiate disciplinary actions as per its internal laid down policies and
procedures.

Article 2: Commitment of the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)

(1) It is required that each Bidder/Contractor (including their respective
officers, employees and agents) adhere to the highest ethical standards, and
report to the NIT Agartala / Department all suspected acts of fraud or
corruption or Coercion or Collusion of which it has knowledge or becomes aware,
during the tendering process and throughout the negotiation or award of a
contract.

(2) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) commits himself to take all measures
necessary to prevent corruption. He commits himself to observe the following
principles during his participation in the Tender process and during the Contract
execution:

(a) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other
person or firm, offer, promise or give to any of the Principal/Owner’s employees
involved in the Tender process or execution of the Contract or to any third person

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

fh


--- Page 22 ---
Page 22 of 68

any material or other benefit which he/she is not legally entitled to, in orderto
obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever during the Tender
process or during the execution of the Contract.

(b) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not enter with other Bidder(s) into any
undisclosed agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal. This
applies in particular to prices, specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts,
submission or non-submission of bids or any other actions to restrict
competitiveness or to cartelize in the bidding process.

(c) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not commit any offence under the
relevant IPC/PC Act. Further the Bidder(s)/ Contract(s) will not use improperly,
(for the purpose of competition or personal gain), or pass on to others, any
information or documents provided by the Principal/Owner as part of the
business relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals and business details,
including information contained or transmitted electronically. (d) The
Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of foreign origin shall disclose the names and addresses
of agents/ representatives in India, if any. Similarly Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of
Indian Nationality shall disclose names and addresses of foreign
agents/representatives, if any. Either the Indian agent on behalf of the foreign
principal or the foreign principal directly could bid in a tender but not both.
Further, in cases where an agent participate in a tender on behalf of one
manufacturer, he shall not be allowed to quote on behalf of another
manufacturer along with the first manufacturer in a subsequent/parallel tender
for the same item.

(d) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will, when presenting his bid, disclose any
and all payments he has made, is committed to or intends to make to agents,
brokers or any other intermediaries in connection with the award of the
Contract.

(3) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not instigate third persons to commit
offences outlined above or be an accessory to such offences.

(4) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other
person or firm indulge in fraudulent practice means a willful misrepresentation
or omission of facts or submission of fake/forged documents in order to induce
public official to act in reliance thereof, with the purpose of obtaining unjust
advantage by or causing damage to justified interest of others and/or to
influence the procurement process to the detriment of the NIT Agartala
interests.

e)) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other
person or firm use Coercive Practices (means the act of obtaining something,
compelling an action or influencing a decision through intimidation, threat or the
use of force directly or indirectly, where potential or actual injury may befall

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala
\

    


--- Page 23 ---
Page 23 of 68

upon a person, his/her reputation or property to influence their participation in
the tendering process).

Article 3: Consequences of Breach

Without prejudice to any rights that may be available to the Principal/Owner
under law or the Contract or its established policies and laid down procedures,
the Principal/Owner shall have the following rights in case of breach of this
Integrity Pact by the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) and the Bidder/ Contractor accepts
and undertakes to respect and uphold the Principal/Owner’s absolute right:

(1) If the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s), either before award or during execution of
Contract has committed a transgression through a violation of Article 2 above or
in any other form, such as to put his reliability or credibility in question, the
Principal/Owner after giving 14 days notice to the contractor shall have powers
to disqualify the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) from the Tender process or
terminate/determine the Contract, if already executed or exclude the
Bidder/Contractor from future contract award processes. The imposition and
duration of the exclusion will be determined by the severity of transgression and
determined by the Principal/Owner. Such exclusion may be forever or for a
limited period as decided by the Principal/Owner.

(2) Forfeiture of EMD/Performance Guarantee/Security Deposit: If the
Principal/Owner has disqualified the Bidder(s) from the Tender process prior to
the award of the Contract or terminated/determined the Contract or has accrued
the right to terminate/determine the Contract according to Article 3(1), the
Principal/Owner apart from exercising any legal rights that may have accrued to
the Principal/Owner, may in its considered opinion forfeit the entire amount of
Earnest Money Deposit, Performance Guarantee and Security Deposit of the
Bidder/Contractor.

(3) Criminal Liability: If the Principal/Owner obtains knowledge of conduct
of a Bidder or Contractor, or of an employee or a representative or an associate
of a Bidder or Contractor which constitutes corruption within the meaning of IPC
Act, or if the Principal/Owner has substantive suspicion in this regard, the
Principal/Owner will inform the same to law enforcing agencies for further
investigation.

Article 4: Previous Transgression

(1) The Bidder declares that no previous transgressions occurred in the last
5 years with any other Company in any country confirming to the anticorruption
approach or with Central Government or State Government or any other
Central/State Public Sector Enterprises in India that could justify his exclusion
from the Tender process.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

CaF


--- Page 24 ---
Page 24 of 68

(2) if the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be
disqualified from the Tender process or action can be taken for banning of
business dealings/ holiday listing of the Bidder/Contractor as deemed fit by the
Principal/ Owner.

(3) if the Bidder/Contractor can prove that he has resorted / recouped the
damage caused by him and has installed a suitable corruption prevention system,
the Principal/Owner may, at its own discretion, revoke the exclusion
prematurely.

Article 5: Equal Treatment of all Bidders/Contractors/Subcontractors

(1) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) undertake(s) to demand from all
subcontractors a commitment in conformity with this Integrity Pact. The
Bidder/Contractor shall be responsible for any violation(s) of the principles laid
down in this agreement/Pact by any of its Subcontractors/sub-vendors.

(2) The Principal/Owner will enter into Pacts on identical terms as this one
with all Bidders and Contractors.

(3) The Principal/Owner will disqualify Bidders, who do not submit, the duly
signed Pact between the Principal/ Owner and the bidder, along with the Tender
or violate its provisions at any stage of the Tender process, from the Tender
process.

Article 6- Duration of the Pact

This Pact begins when both the parties have legally signed it. It expires for the
Contractor/Vendor 12 months after the completion of work under the contract
or till the continuation of defect liability period, whichever is more and for all
other bidders, till the Contract has been awarded. If any claim is made/lodged
during the time, the same shall be binding and continue to be valid despite the
lapse of this Pacts as specified above, unless it is discharged/determined bythe
Competent Authority, NIT Agartala.

Article 7- Other Provisions
(1) This Pact is subject to Indian Law, place of performance and jurisdiction
is the Headquarters of the Division of the Principal/Owner, who has floated the

Tender.

(2) Changes and supplements need to be made in writing. Side agreements
have not been made.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Jj


--- Page 25 ---
Page 25 of 68

(3) lf the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this Pact must be
signed by all the partners or by one or more partner holding power of attorney
signed by all partners and consortium members. In case of a Company, the Pact
must be signed by a representative duly authorized by board resolution.

(4) Should one or several provisions of this Pact turn out to be invalid; the
remainder of this Pact remains valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come
to an agreement to their original intensions.

(5) It is agreed term and condition that any dispute or difference arising
between the parties with regard to the terms of this Integrity Agreement / Pact,
any action taken by the Owner/Principal in accordance with this Integrity
Agreement/ Pact or interpretation thereof shall not be subject to arbitration.

Article 8- LEGAL AND PRIOR RIGHTS

All rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be in addition to all theother
legal rights and remedies belonging to such parties under the Contract and/or
law and the same shall be deemed to be cumulative and not alternative to such
legal rights and remedies aforesaid. For the sake of brevity, both the Parties
agree that this Integrity Pact will have precedence over the Tender/Contact
documents with regard any of the provisions covered under this Integrity Pact.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed and executed this Integrity Pact at
the place and date first above mentioned in the presence of following witnesses:

COOH H OHHH HE HO EEO EEEH HES E EES COCO SEO SEE OC OE CHOOSER OLED Cee EHOS

COMP Oe H COCO T Eee EEE HEE HEHEHE ESE E SESE OHO O ESO E OEE REO e Se reeesees

(For and on behalf of Bidder/Contractor)

WITNESSES:

(Signature, name and address)

Place:
Dated:

Contractor For and.on behalf of NIT Agartala

ah


--- Page 26 ---
Page 26 of 68

T | Agreement

 

AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT made on the day of 2024
between NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA (hereinafter called "The NIT
AGARTALA" which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or meaning
thereof, include its administrators, successors and assigns) of the one part
AND (herein
after called "The Contractor” which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or
meaning thereof, include its successors and permitted assigns) of the other part.

WHEREAS

The NIT AGARTALA is desirous of carrying out the work of “Comprehensive Annual
Maintenance Contract (CAMC) of Split/ Window/ Cassete type Air Conditioner
alongwith Deep freezers & Water Coolers installed at various department of NIT
Agartala”

The Works are to be executed as per the schedules mentioned in tendér document and
specifications describing the works to be done.

The Contractor has agreed to execute the said works subject to the provisions hereinafter
contained and subject also to General Conditions of Contract, Special conditions of
contract, Safety Code, Model Rules for the protection of health and Sanitary
arrangements for workers, Specifications, Preambles and Schedule of Quantities and
installation schedule (all of which are hereinafter collectively referred to as the ‘said
tender conditions’) and strictly in accordance with the Scope of work annexed hereto at
or for the respective rates set out in the Schedule of Quantities amounting to the sum as
there under arrived at or such other sums as shall become payable there under
(hereinafter referred to as the said tendered amount).

NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS: -

1. In consideration of the said tendered amount to be paid by The NIT AGARTALA to
the Contractor at the time and in the manner set forth in the said tender
conditions and in accordance with the Schedule of Payments to execute and
complete the work shown strictly in accordance with the specifications, scope of
work and Schedule of Quantities.

2. The said tender conditions, scope of work and the annexures hereto shall be read
and considered as forming part of this contract and the parties hereto shall
respectfully abide by to the said conditions and perform the agreement on their
part respectively contained in the said conditions.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala
™\

 


--- Page 27 ---
Page 27 of 68

3. The approved drawings if any, notice inviting tenders technical specification etc.
shall also form the basis of this contract.

4. This contract is neither a Lump sum Contract, nor a piece work contract, but is a
Annual maintenance contract to be carried out and to be paid for according to the
Schedule of Payments at the rates contained.

5. The contract herein contained shall comprise not only the works mentioned above
but all subsidiary works connected therewith within the same site as may be ordered
to be done from time to time by the said Engineer In charge for the time being,
even if such work may not be shown on the said Drawings or described in the said
Specifications and Schedule of Quantities.

6. The NIT AGARTALA reserves to themselves the right of altering the specifications
and the nature of the work by adding to or omitting from the scope of work any
item of work or portions of the same without prejudice to this contract.

7. Time shall be considered as the essence of this contract and the Contractor hereby
agrees to commence the work within 15 days from the date of issue of LOA or
from the date of handing over of the site, as provided for in the said terms and
conditions, whichever is later, and shall complete the entire ‘work within the
specified period, subject nevertheless the provisions for extension of time as may
be agreed to by the NIT AGARTALA and as contained in the said conditions.

8. All payments by the NIT AGARTALA under this contract shall be made only
at NIT Agartala.

9. All disputes arising out of or in any way connected with this contract shall be
deemed to have arisen at Agartala and courts in Agartala only shall have
jurisdiction to determine the same.

10. That the contract and several parts of this contract have been read by the
contractor and fully understood by him. The contractor shall not be entitled for
payment beyond tendered quantities & scope of work as specified unless ordered
specifically by written instructions of competent authority of NIT AGARTALA.

11. This contract shall be signed in duplicate, the original whereof shall be kept in the
custody of the NIT AGARTALA, and the duplicate with the Contractor.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the NIT AGARTALA has set his hands hereunto and two duplicates
hereof through his duly authorized official and the Contractor has caused these presents
and two duplicates hereof under his common seal by his duly authorized representative
at the place and on the date month and year first herein above written.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

jr *


--- Page 28 ---
Page 28 of 68

SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED by NIT AGARTALA, by the hand of

Signature:
Name:
Designation: Registrar, NIT Agartala

IN THE PRESENCE OF

(1) Signature:
Name:
Address:

(2) Signature:
Name:
Address:

SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED BY the Contractor M/s.

Signature:
Name:
Designation:

IN THE PRESENCE OF
(1) Signature:
Name:
Address:

(2) Signature:

Name:
Address:

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

fat


--- Page 29 ---
Page 29 of 66

 
 

This will be as per the General Conditions of Contract (GCC) of the CPWD to the
extent applicable to the NIT Agartala. Decision in this regard will be governed by
the competent authority of NIT Agartala which shall be final and binding to the
contractor.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

va


--- Page 30 ---
Page 30 of 66

 

The Scope of work as mentioned below are the minimum expected from the firm/ agency/
contractor apart from break down maintenance and any other work required for
comprehensive maintenance in proper way as per the operation and maintenance manuals
of respective equipment’s and as per good engineering practices will be required to be
done under this scope of work. Successful bidder will make Performa for recording the
following work schedule/ parameters and show to NIT Agartala to ensure proper
accomplishment of these tasks. The Scope of Contract shall be Spot Breakdown/
Maintenance of machine, Preventive Maintenance of machine, Servicing/Overhauling of AC
machine, Repairing of machines etc. with adequate technically sound skilled work force. All

spares and consumables shall be arranged by the contractor for which nothing extra shall be
payable.

The Contract shall be executed, all in Service & Maintenance Contract for all the Split/
Window/ Cassete Air Conditioner/Deep freezers/Water Coolers installed at various
department of NIT Agartala. It will be the responsibility of the Contractor to keep the
machines, in proper working condition round the clock.

INSTALLATION / EQUIPMENT DETAILS

Details of Air-Conditioners (AC) under CAMC of NIT Agartala Campus area

       

 
  
  

  
  
   

  

      
    
     

 

   

 

    
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sl. | Name of the Class . Facult Total
No | Department/ Laborator Roo ee bhi y Quantit
| Section y m Room y
1 Chemical 19 celal Fi

Engineering ior |
2 Civil 01 Nos Lr | fs

Engineering ; a 1 Nos.
3 Re 09 Nos. 04Nos. | tx Nee, | 38 Nos.

J L ; :

Electronics | «r— |

4 ae. | 42 Mos. 05 Nos. 16 4 1 97 tos.
Communicatio .
n Engineering _|
Electronics T |
And 02
5 | Instrumentati 02 Nos. N
os.
on
| Engineering _ | L a
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

sa


--- Page 31 ---
 

Page 31 of 66

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 Mechanical 07 Nos. 3 04 Nos. 05 03 32 Nos. |
| Engineering Nos. Nos. | Nos.
Production 01 03
‘ Engineering NA. Nos. Nos. 1a er
. 04
Seow Te
t—
9 Chemistry 03 Nos.
Labi FD tS.
10 | Mathematics 10 Nos.
CADC (Media
11 Centre) 11 Nos.
eae.
CRF/ Food
12 Court Building 17 Nos. 29 Nos.
Computer 03
13 Science and 04 Nos. N 12 Nos.
. . Os.
Engineering
Director's
es Bungalow : am id besacey
|
International
Guest House 4 ani 78 Nos
Old Guest
Administrativ 13
Wa e building - 1 Nos. Fanos
Administrativ 01
18 e building - 2 05 Nos. 04 Nos. Hee: 10 Nos.
Digital Library 05
i Building Nos. a i
Web & 08
20 | Networking ne 08 Nos
Fro Get ‘
03
21 | Room No. 101 Kee: 03 Nos
; 07
22 | Transit House 07 Nos
Nos.
Nos.
ws
Contractor

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 32 ---
 

Page 32 of 68

Details_of Water Cooler under CAMC of NIT Agartala Campus area

 

    
    

 

    
   
   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bes Name of the Department/ Section Corridor/ Near Toilet Block Total Quantity
2 Civil Engineering 01 No. 01 No.
3 Electrical Engineering 01 No. 01 No.
Electronics And Communication
2 Mechanical Engineering 01 No.
6 Auditorium 01 No.
7 Mathematics
a.
8
9 Administrative building - 1
10 Aryabhatta Hostel
11 RNT Hostel & Gomati Hostel
12 Civil Workshop
13 Workshop-1
14 Gargi Hostel
15 International Guest House
Lend UL
Total
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

ra


--- Page 33 ---
Page 33 of 68

Details of Deep Freezer under CAMC of NIT Agartala Campus area

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a Name of the Department/ Section Laboratory Total Quantity
1 | Chemical Engineering | 01 No. 01 No.
2 | CRF/ Food Court Building 03 Nos. 03 Nos.
3 Civil Workshop 02 Nos. 02 Nos.
Total | 06 Nos.
SCOPE:-

The scope and nature of services to be provided by the contractor shall include scheduled
preventive maintenance services which cover periodic and break down servicing, along
with replacement of defective spare parts, including compressor and other consumables,
if required during the contract period. The rate quoted for services shall also include the
charges for deputing manpower (One Mechanic and One helper) on all working days and
routine maintenance service which shall include at least the following services:

1. CAMC of Window/split/cassette AC’s, Deep freezers and water coolers shall include
supply of all material spares, replacement /repairs of compressor from OEM’s, gas
charging, air filter, electrical parts, servicing, overhauling, greasing, starting relay,
overload protector, wiring repairs, motor rewinding with bush and shaft, tapes including
handling charges, blower motor/outdoor fan motor, digital scanner, piping, insulation and
spares of outdoor/indoor units replacement etc., complete in all respects, for ensuring
the desired levels of cooling i.e. CAMC includes all types of materials including shifting of
any AC’s/ Deep freezers/ water cooler and Batteries of Remote Control.

2. CAMC shall also include deployment of full time mechanic & assistant during the
working hours including holidays at no extra charges. They will report to officer in charge
of works division for daily attendance and will take necessary instruction.

3. There should not be loose cabies, hanging boards, naked live cables etc. Proper
earthing is must wherever it is required.

4. It shall be responsibility of the contractor to hand over the all CAMC awarded AC units
to NITA in working condition at the expiry of the Contract period.

5. This Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract shall be a contract for different
types/make/capacities of Air-Conditioners/Deep Freezers/Water Coolers.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 34 ---
Page 34 of 68

6. The Air-Conditioners/Deep Freezers/Water Coolers that are not serviceable by the
agency / beyond economical repair due to obsolescence of technology or non-availability
of parts / components / assemblies will be withdrawn from the maintenance contract.
The decision of engineer in charge regarding non-availability and obsolescence of
technology will be final. Withdrawal of such air conditioners shall be communicated to
the agency and equivalent maintenance charges shall be deducted from the amount due
to the agency. Preventive maintenance service would be carried out by the service
provider regularly to keep the equipment running in a trouble free condition during the
period of contract. Wash the filter of all the ACs every month.

7. The history sheet of servicing/breakdown repairing of each and every unit shall be
maintained. The copy of report shall be submitted along with the bill subsequent to the
servicing activity.

8. In case an Air-Conditioners/Deep Freezers/Water Coolers is to be taken to the Service
Station/Workshop for repairs etc. with the permission of the engineer in charge, the
contractor will provide standby Air-Conditioner/Deep Freezer/Water Cooler. NITA will not
pay any charges for standby and will not be responsible for any damage occurred in the
standby Air-Conditioner/Deep Freezer/Water Cooler.

9. Details of all minor/major, routine/preventive repair/maintenance job undertaken
shall be entered into the service sheet.

Following work is included in the Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract of Air-
Conditioner/Deep Freezer/Water Cooler:

Besides periodic servicing of the Air-Conditioner/Deep Freezer/Water Cooler, contract
shall include attending the breakdown calls, providing and fixing of any components of
the machine (free of cost) viz. starting capacitor, running capacitor, thermostat, over
load relay, selector switch, indicator, nuts, bolts, screws, motor capacitor,
rewinding/repair of motor, repair/replacement of blower motor, brazing of coils if
leaking, part wiring or complete wiring of AC (internally), supplying and charging of
refrigerant gas, providing and replacement of compressor with new one or manufacturer
repaired compressor (no cut weld/locally repaired compressor will be accepted as
replacement), repairing of the insulation/pipes etc. of split Air-Conditioner/Deep
Freezer/Water Cooler, etc. to ensure that Air-Conditioner/ Deep Freezer/Water Cooler
function in proper way.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Cr


--- Page 35 ---
Page 35 of 68

Air-Conditioner/Deep Freezer/Water Cooler
2 Time schedule and periodicity of work

Work to be carried out weekly:

i. The filters shall be cleaned on weekly basis and record thereof shall be maintained.
Note: - Repairing is to be done immediately if on inspection any defect is found. Air filter
of the Air-Conditioner/Deep Freezer/Water Cooler Units shall be cleaned weekly basis.

Monthly Preventive Maintenance shall include the following:
The servicing and maintenance shall be carried out without disturbing the normal
functioning of the offices.

i. Dry and wet servicing.

ii. Cleaning of blower and condenser fan

i. Cleaning the equipment

iv. Checking cooling efficiency

v. Cleaning of Air filter.

vi. Replacement of filter/water zones.

vii. Checking of water purifiers

viii. Replacement of consumable items in purifiers.

ie
—
—_

Quarterly Preventive Maintenance shall include the following:
i. Checking motor bushings

ii. Ground connections

iii, Checking connections at the main plug

iv. Cleaning of blower and condenser fan

v. Cleaning the evaporator and condenser coil

vi. Cleaning the equipment

vii. Checking and tightening of nuts & bolts

viii. Oiling the motor

ix. Checking cooling efficiency

x. Overhauling of the Air-Conditioner/Deep Freezer/Water Cooler with chemical washing
process.

Break-down service (BDS):

Breakdown calls shall be attended to immediately and a record of such service, duly
acknowledged by the person in charge of the location of the Air-Conditioner/Deep
Freezer/Water Cooler, shall be maintained. Breakdown service will include replacement of
genuine spares, Compressor, Gas filling etc. at the cost of the service provider.

Minor Fault should be rectified within 24 hrs & Major Fault should be rectified within 48
to 72 hrs by the service provider.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 36 ---
Page 36 of 68

ANNUAL MAINTENANCE SERVICES (ONCE A YEAR)

The scope of work shall include all checks and tests as detailed under routine
maintenance services. In addition annual maintenance services shall also include:

a) Cleaning the condenser and evaporator coils with suitable detergent / chemical
solution and flushing with high-pressure jet of water.

b) Greasing of blower motors and all moving parts.

c) Prevention of rusting of units.

d) In off season there is during the lien period of winter the contractor shall attend all
the Air conditioner units for major attentions and keep the equipment ready for use for
the next summer.

e) Checking operation of controls of the air- conditioners such as thermostat, relays,
remote control etc.

f) Checking air flow through the supply air grill, return air grill, condenser.

g) Checking operation of the drive motors and fans

h) Checking air temperature at supply air grill, return air grill, Inlet air condenser, outlet
air from condenser

i) Checking Firmness of supporting arrangement for the compressor, blower motor, air
conditioners casing and fixing of air-conditioners etc. Anti-rusting Painting of the MS
portion prone to rusting

j) Replacement of any component of air conditioners found defective after the above
checks and tests.

8. Exclusion of contract

 

The following shall not be a part of this contract: -
1. Electrical Point/Sub-main wiring including Industrial sockets/ AC starter, MCBs.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Gy Je -


--- Page 37 ---
Page 37 of 68

9. The penalty amount per complaint will be as follow :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

; Particulars Specified Time Period Penalty
O. L | |
Upto 48 Hrs. No penalty
py 1
7 Beyond 48 Hrs. upto 72 Hrs. Rs. 300/- Per AC Per Day
1
3 oben Beyond 72 Hrs. upto 7
Conditioner/Dee (Seven) Days. Rs. 500/- Per AC Per Day
p Freezer/Water
Cooler B |
4 eyond 7 (Seven) Days upto
15 (Fifteen) Days. Rs. 1200/- Per AC Per Day
i Action will be taken as
3 Beyond 15 (Fifteen) Days. decided by the competent
| L authority.

|) In extreme cases, the action of forfeiture of security money/pending bill/blacklisting of
the firm can be resorted at the discretion of the competent authority in case of failure
by the contractor to rectify the fault within the specified time.

Il) Any damage to the building or the any part of the equipment which might result during
the operation shall be repaired by the contractor.

Il) In case any Technician found absent from his duty following recovery shall be made
from the contractor’s bill

a) Mechanic @ Rs 500/- per day
b) Assistant /Helper @ Rs 300/- per day
Mechanic/ Assistant /Helper should have their Mobile Phone at the time of Duty at NITA.

IV) Any damage resulting to the system on account of the negligence or mall- operation
shall be made good by the contractor. Nothing extra will be paid for such work.

v) The contractor shall arrange to render efficient service as outlined in this
specification. However, in case the contractor fails to maintain the service to the
Satisfaction of the Engineer- in - charge or department HoD/ Faculty and any expenditure
incurred therein for alternative arrangements by the Engineer-in-charge shall be
recovered from the contractor.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

ya ©


--- Page 38 ---
Page 38 of 68

vl) At the time of acceptance of the tender, the contractor shall furnish the details of
staff members along with contact details to the NITA who will look after the CAMC work.

10. The contractor or his representative should not remove, disturb, and dislocate the
existing equipment and its parts from its positions until and unless it is authorized by the
Engineer-in - Charge. The entire installation should be intact at any time of inspection as
was handed over to him at the time of initial taking over of its maintenance and
Operation. Care shall also be taken not to damage installation by improper handling.

11. The material requires replacement shall be of same quality/manufacturer and
specifications. The dismantled material shall be the property of contractor.

12. All the technicians and helpers posted on duty shall sign the attendance prescribed
for the purpose. Any absence/default in this regard would involve proportionate
deduction of CAMC charges payable to the service provider. Repeated absence/default in
this regard shall lead to termination of contract.

13. All break-down calls shall be attended to immediately and on the same day.
Breakdown calls that could not be attended to on the same day for exceptional reasons
shall be attended to on the next day without fail.

14. Transportation of Air-Conditioner/Deep Freezer/Water Cooler Units from the office
buildings to the service provider’s workshop, from one building to another and from the
service provider’s workshop to the office buildings, will be at the cost of the service
provider.

15. The Service Provider is responsible for the payment of Minimum Wages (under Central
Act) to the personnel deployed by it. The Service Provider is also responsible for
compliance of the provisions of all the statutes applicable in its case.

16. Cancellation of Contract

In cases of poor workmanship and non-compliance of tender/agreement or services
provided by the contractor are not found to be satisfactory, the contract shall be
terminated by the department by giving 10 days notice even before the expiry of contract
period and shall be forfeited the security deposit/EMD etc. without assigning any reason
what so ever.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

yan &


--- Page 39 ---
Page 39 of 68

Special Conditions of Contract:

a. Details of weekly/ monthly/ Quarterly/ Half-yearly/ yearly scheduled
maintenance/break down shall be entered in the prescribed format & jointly
signed by the firm’s representative and NIT Agartala representative.

b. Contractor will have to take necessary care and precaution to keep the Air-
Conditioner safe for use and in good working condition.

c. Contractor will have to carry out all customary safety tests to examine all safety
devices.

d. As the contract is comprehensive in nature, no payment will be made as an extra
for replacement of spare parts etc.

e. No parts or components of the Air-Conditioner being maintained by contractor
shall be removed without prior approval and knowledge of NIT Agartala. Any
part to be removed from the Air-Conditioner for repair shall be done after
approval of the nominated engineer/ supervisor.

f. Any damage to NIT Agartala property while carrying out CAMC and attending
break down will be contractors’ responsibility.

g. Contractor shall not only attend the failure of Air-Conditioner but also rectify
the cause of failure after investigation.

h. Penalty imposed for late reporting, late replacement of defective parts and Down
time shall be deducted from running bill of the firm.

i. There should be a site office/ maintenance cell inside the NIT Agartala on
compulsory basis for CAMC job. Bills of Room rent, electricity, water etc. should
be pay by the agency/ contractor separately.

j. All payments shall be made in Indian currency. The payment will be released on
Half Yearly basis after ascertaining that the service is rendered satisfactorily.
The preventive and corrective maintenance service report has to be submitted
with bill. The reports of periodic maintenance and breakdown maintenance shall
be signed by the Junior Engineer (Elect.).

k. Annexures should be submitted with each & every running bills.

\. The total value (BOQ) is inclusive of GST & other charges.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

ae


--- Page 40 ---
Page 40 of 68

m. Contractor shall have to engage the personnel having the mandatory qualifications
and experience as per Annexure-V for supervision of operation and maintenance
works. He shall also supervise all regular, emergent and breakdown jobs, if required,
in odd hours also.:

n. After award of work, the contractor will submit the details of operating staff for the
work, their names, father’s name, local address, qualification and experience etc.
to the Engineer-in-charge or his authorized representative. In case of any change of
operating staff is required by the contractor, the same shall be intimated to and got
approved from the Engineer-in-charge or his authorized representative. Contractor
shall maintain the proper discipline among his operational staff. The staff deputed
by the contractor shall have good character. All staff on duty shall always keep
cordial relation with NITA staff.

o. The Engineer-in-charge or his authorized representative reserves the right to ask the
contractor to remove any of the operating staff without assigning any reason what so
ever, the decision of Engineer-in-charge will be final and binding to the contractor.

p. Contractor shall have to make arrangement of insurance of the workers engaged
within the quoted rates. The liability of his staff employed, towards any accident
etc. shall be solely of Contractors. No claim for the absorption of staff in the
department shall be entertained. The contractor has to indemnify the department in
such eventuality.

q. Department shall in no way be involved in any dispute of whatever kind, between
the contractor and the staff engaged by him. The contractor shall be fully
responsible to pay all the compensation and cover all the risks for the workers
employed by him under workmen compensation act in the event of accident / death
etc. The department will not be responsible in any way.

r. Contractor shall have to arrange all T & P for smooth maintenance of the Air-
Conditioner /Deep Freezer/Water Cooler.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

7


--- Page 41 ---
Page 41 of 68

Description of Air-Conditioner:
Details of older Air-Conditioners (AC) under NIT Agartala Campus area

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

:
Sl. , Bras | More than 10
No. Name of the Department/ Section Functioning 7 Years Old Year Cid

[ |

1 Chemical Engineering 07 Nos. L 4 Nos.
2 Civil Engineering 04 Nos.
{ T
3 Electrical Engineering 10 Nos. 6 Nos.
-—
Electronics And Communication
4 Engineering 02 Nos. 1 Nos
Electronics And Instrumentation r
5 Engineering 02 Nos. | 01 Nos.
T
6 Mechanical Engineering | 06 Nos. | 02 Nos.
L
7 Production Engineering | 09 Nos. l 05 Nos.
8 Physics 08 Nos. 03 Nos.

-

9 Chemistry 02 Nos. 01 Nos.
= _|

10 Mathematics 20 Nos. | 05 Nos.

11 CADC (Media Centre) 02 Nos. | 01 Nos.
+ =

12 CRF/ Food Court Building 17 Nos. 02 Nos. 08 Nos.

13 | Computer Science and Engineering 09 Nos. 04 Nos.

14 Director's Bungalow 11 Nos. 04 Nos. 01 Nos.

15 International Guest House 56 Nos. 22 Nos.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

A *


--- Page 42 ---
Page 42 of 68

 
 
 
  

   
  

Old Guest House

 

     
  
  

17 Administrative building - 1

stn | neh
Administrative building - 2 08M 03 Nos.

04 Nos.
06 Nos. 02 Nos.
Soe | a

19 Digital Library Building

    
   
   
    
    

 

 

Web & Networking Cell

 

Room No. 101

Transit House

 

 

Total

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Wa &


--- Page 43 ---
Page 43 of 68

Description of Water Cooler:
Details of older Water Cooler under NIT Agartala Campus area

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

—
ee aa of the Department/ Section Functioning 7 Years Old weer -¥
1 Library Building 01 No. 1 No.
2 | Civil Engineering 01 No.
3 Electrical Engineering 01 No. 1 No. -
4 sean if: oe | 02 Nos. 1 No. |
5 L Mechanical Engineering [ 01 No. |
6 Auditorium 01 No. 1 No.
7 Mathematics ; 02 Nos. 1 No.
|
8 | Computer Science and Engineering 01 No.
9 Administrative building - 1 01 No.
10 Aryabhatta Hostel 07 Nos.
11 RNT Hostel & Gomati Hostel 14 Nos. 1 No.
12 Civil Workshop 01 No.
13 Workshop-1 _-| 38 01 No. 1 No.
14 Gargi Hostel 09 Nos.
15 International Guest House 01 No.
Total 44 Nos.
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

fa ©


--- Page 44 ---
Page 44 of 68

Description of Deep Freezer:

Details of older Deep freezers under NIT Agartala Campus area

 

 

Name of the Department/ Section Functioning 7 Years Old

Chemical Engineering

 

CRF/ Food Court Building

More than 10
Year Old

 

 

Civil Workshop

 

Total

 

 

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

A &


--- Page 45 ---
~~

Page 45 of 68

Detailed report of Air-Conditioners (AC) at NIT Agartala Campus area

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
    
 
 

 
 

 

Sl. Name of the Department/ ; .
1 Chemical Engineering Split 2.0 Ton 1G | 09 Nos. |
———__ =P
| Split 1.5 Ton Godrej 06 Nos. |
tT
2 Civil Engineering Split 1.5 Ton Samsung
a
Split 2.0 Ton Panasonic
=I
3 Electrical Engineering Split 1.5 Ton Carrier
—
Split 1.5 Ton Godrej 01 Nos.
= —
Window 1.5 Ton Godrej 03 Nos.
L- _
Split 1.5 Ton LG 02 Nos.
eth .
Split 2.0 Ton LG 02 Nos.
Window | 2.0 Ton Hitachi 03 Nos.
Cassete 1.5 Ton Voltas 23 Nos.
Electronics And
4 Communication Split 1.5 Ton Hitachi 15 Nos.
Engineering
Split 1.5 Ton Carrier 05 Nos.
Cassete 1.5 Ton 17 Nos.
Electronics And
5 Instrumentation Split 1.5 Ton Hitachi 06 Nos.
i L Engineering
6 Mechanical Engineering L Split 1.5 Ton LG 08 Nos.
Split 2.0 Ton LG | 06 Nos. |
L :
Contractor

Year of
Installation

2011

2011

2012

2015

2015

2015

2015

2015

2015

2015

2015

2015

2015

2015

2015

2015

2010

2012

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 

Ba.

 


--- Page 46 ---
 

7

Production Engineering

Page 46 of 68

Split

Window

Split

Split

Split

ineeri Split

 

 

 

 

1.5 Ton

1.5 Ton

2.0 Ton

1.5 Ton

1.5 Ton

1.5 Ton

2.0 Ton

1.5 Ton

2.0 Ton

1.5 Ton

1.5 Ton

2.0 Ton

1.5 Ton

1.5 Ton

 

Split
8 Physics Split
Split
‘ 9 oe Chemistry Split
10 Mathematics Split
11 CADC (Media Centre) Split
12 CRF/ Food Court Building Split
13 | Samana Soenceand | soy
14 Director's Bungalow Split
15 International Guest House Split
16 Old Guest House
17 Administrative building - 1
Contractor

1.5 Ton

Bluestar

Panasonic

Godrej

Godrej

Onida

Carrier

01 Nos.

04 Nos.

LG 08 Nos.

Godrej

LG

Hitachi

Hitachi

LG 03 Nos.

LG 25 Nos.

LG 11 Nos.

Godrej

LG 12 Nos.

Hitachi

Hitachi

1.5 Ton LG

<

Godrej

Hitachi

78 Nos.

For and on behalf of NIT A

2011

2010

2010

2010

2011

2010

2012

2012

2012

2014

2014

2012

2016

2010

2015

2015

2011

2012

2009

2009

2016

gartala


--- Page 47 ---
Page 47 of 68

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

06 Nos.

07 Nos.

10 Nos.

05 Nos.

06 Nos.

 

 

 

Split 2.0 Ton LG
r
Split 1.5 Ton LG
| 18 | Administrative building - 2 Split 1.5 Ton
19 Digital Library Building Split 1.5 Ton LG
20 Web & Networking Cell Split 1.5 Ton LG
— se
Window | 2.0 Ton LG
pe
21 Room No. 101 Split 1.5 Ton
——S
22 Transit House Split 1.5 Ton LG
ee
Total
L
Contractor

02 Nos.

03 Nos.

07 Nos.

3 Vee

2016

2016

2016

2018

2016

2018

2012

2010

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

/

J

pi:

 

 


--- Page 48 ---
Page 48 of 68

Detailed report of Water Cooler at NIT Agartala Campus area

Sl. | Name of the Department/

 

 

 

 

 

 

Aryabhatta Hostel

  

 

 

 
   
 
  

07 Nos.

 
  

ae aid: Quantity Type/Capacity/Make
1 Library Building 01 No. aetna.
2 Civil Engineering 01 No. le acon
' 100 Ltr/
3 Electrical Engineering 01 No. Bluestar/Voltas
Electronics And 100 Ltr/
4 Communication 02 Nos. Bluestar/Voltas
L Engineering |
Ft 100 Ltr/
5 Mechanical Engineering 01 No. Bluestar/Voltas
100 Ltr/
6 Auditorium 01 No. Bluestar/Voltas
a —=-—
100 Ltr/ ‘
7 Mathematics 02 Nos. Bluestar/Voltas
: 100 Ltr/
8 Computer Science and 01 No.
| | Engineering

 

Bluestar/Voltas
100 Ltr/
9 | Administrative building - 1 01 No. 2016

Bluestar/Voltas

100 Ltr/
Bluestar/Voltas

 

 

 

 

 

 

; L
44 RNT Hostel & Gomati ia Ros: 100 Ltr/
Hostel
12 Civil Workshop 01 No. Bluestar/Voltas
100 Ltr/
13 Workshop-1 01 No. Bluestar/Voltas
100 Ltr/
14 Gargi Hostel 09 Nos. Bluestar/Voltas
Pe ee ed i
100 Ltr/
15 | International Guest House 01 No. Bluestar/Voltas
100 Ltr/
Total 44 Nos. Bluestar/Voltas
Contractor

 

Bluestar/Voltas 2011
100 Ltr/

Year of Installation

2011

2011

2012

2012

2011

2011

2012

2012

  
 
 
 
 
 

 

2015

2011

 

2012

2016

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

'


--- Page 49 ---
Page 49 of 68

Detailed report of Deep freezers at NIT Agartala Campus area

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

|
None | quantity | rypefcapactyake |, Year of
L | |
1 Chemical Engineering 01 No. 200 Ltr/ Bluestar 2011
o
| 2 CRF/ Food Court Building 03 Nos. P 200 Ltr/ Bluestar 2012
3 Civil Workshop 02 Nos. 200 Ltr/ Bluestar 2011
[ 1 r
Total Ai 06 Nos. I
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

VA ©


--- Page 50 ---
Page 50 of 68

Termination of Agreement:

a. Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving the other party not less than
thirty (30) days written notice.

Contractor to comply with laws:

a. In the performance of this Contract, the Contractor shall abide by all existing laws,
codes, rules and regulations set forth by all governmental units and authorities

_ having competent jurisdiction over Contractor and/or the work performed by
Contractor hereunder. Contractor shall also procure and pay any necessary
permits or licenses pertaining to the work performed by Contractor pursuant to
this Contract.

b. All repair, parts replacement or adjustments called for hereunder shall be
performed in full compliance with specified laws, standards and codes set by the
government with latest edition, including amendments thereto, and with
applicable regulations of the state, city and/or local authorities. In case of
conflict, the more stringent regulations will apply.

Warranty:

Contractor warrants that the CAMC will be provided to the NIT Agartala in
accordance with the terms of this Contract and with prevailing industry
standards for maintenance services. Contractor shall use its best efforts under the
circumstances to remedy any delays, interruptions, omissions, mistakes,
accidents or errors in such services and restore any service to compliance with
the terms of this Contract.

Availability of Authorized Representative:

The contractor shall ensure availability of his authorized representative at
NIT Agartala to receive emergency calls and take remedial actions. The
representative should attend the call immediately to ensure the restoration
of the services promptly.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

me


--- Page 51 ---
Page 51 of 68

Responsibility of Accident and hazards:

The contractor shall be responsible for any accident or hazard that take place
during the maintenance period due to negligence of work performed by the
agency. He shall also be responsible for payment of compensation and penalties
payable to effected parties as a result of legal action. He shall also be
responsible for repairs and replacement of damaged parts of the Air-
Conditioner/Deep Freezer/Water Cooler and restore services immediately.

Spares & parts covered under CAMC:

All of the electrical, mechanical, electronics, Software types of materials/
essential spare parts related to the Split, Window and Cassete type Air-
Conditioner/Deep Freezer/Water Cooler should be supplied by the agency/
contractor in his own cost.

All parts and components fitted by agency should be original parts or
components. If original parts or components are not available, the parts or
components fitted will be of equal quality and any defects in design,
material or workmanship relating to parts and components shall be limited
to the replacement of spare parts or components as defined by this article
and which shall be certified by the O.E.M.

Contractor For and.on behalf of NIT Agartala

pr

 


--- Page 52 ---
Page 52 of 68

 

 

_M. | Formats for Different Forms/Certificates _ |

Annexure-1

Undertaking having gone through the documents as per the Technical bid

 

Sub.: “Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (CAMC) of Split/ Window/
Cassete type Air Conditioner alongwith Deep freezers & Water Coolers
installed at various department of NIT Agartala”.

DNleT No.: 139/NITA/Estate Elect. /2023-24

Dated: .....

To,

The Registrar,

NIT Agartala,

Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura - 799046.

Dear Sir,

We have carefully examined the specifications, design and schedule of quantities
relating to the work specified in the memorandum hereinafter set out and have visited and
examined the installation site of the works specified in the said memorandum and have
acquired the requisite information relating thereto as affecting the tender. We hereby
offer to execute the CAMC works specified in the said memorandum within the time
specified in the said memorandum at the rates mentioned in the Schedule of Quantities and
in accordance in all respects with specifications, designs and instructions in writing
referred to in articles of agreement, general instructions to the tenderers and special
conditions, General Conditions of Contract, conditions hereinbefore referred to,
specifications, schedule of works, data sheet and schedule of quantities and with such
materials as are provided for, by and in all other respects, in accordance with such
conditions so far as they may be applicable.

Contractor For and on-behalf of NIT Agartala

“a


--- Page 53 ---
Page 53 of 68

Memorandum

 

A.1.1 ‘lpNleT No.: 139/NITA/Estate Elect. /2023-24

 

Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract
A.1.2 |Name of Work (CAMC) of Split/) Window/ Cassete type Air
Conditioner alongwith Deep freezers & Water
Coolers installed at various department of NIT
Agartala. |

Rs. 63,000/- (Rupees Sixty Three Thousand Only) by

A.1.3 |Earnest Money Deposit e-payment through electronic mode.

 

(Rs.)
kam Tender Processing Fee Rs. 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) by e-
"" 1(Rs.) payment through’ electronic mode (Non-

 

Refundable)

Initially for a period of 3 (Three) Years and it will be
extended to 4" & 5 year based on the satisfactor
performance and subject to approval of the authority.

ne

A.1.5  |Contract period

Mode of submission of

A.1.6 Tender

 

 

 

On-Line mode only |

2. We also agree that our tender will remain valid for acceptance by the NIT Agartala
for 180 days from the date of opening of bid of the tender and this period of validity can
be extended for such period as may be mutually agreed between the NIT Agartala and us in
writing. We also agree to keep the Bank Guarantee towards earnest money valid during
the entire period of validity of tender and the extended period, if any, as per enclosed
proforma. Should this tender be accepted, we hereby agree to abide by and fulfil all the
terms and conditions of the contract and in default thereof, to forfeit Earnest Money Deposit
and pay to you or your successors, or assignees or nominees such sums of money as are
stipulated in the said conditions.

3. Should this tender be accepted, we hereby agree to abide by and fulfil all the terms
and conditions of the contract and in default thereof, to forfeit Earnest Money Deposit and
Pay to you or your successors, or assignees or nominees such sums of money as are
stipulated in the said conditions.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Ay &


--- Page 54 ---
Page 54 of 68

4. We understand that you reserve the right to accept or reject any or all the
tenders either in full or in part without assigning any reason there for.

Dated this day of 2024.

 

For and on behalf of M/s

(Signature with seal)
Name

Designation

Place

Contractor For and_on behalf of NIT Agartala

sp


--- Page 55 ---
Page 55 of 68

Annexure - 2
(To be scanned and uploaded)
(Printed on letter head of Chartered
Accountant)

Turnover Certificate

Name of the Company/Firm/Agency:

 

Address of the Company/Firm/Agency:

ie i sls WA i

This is to certify that | have verified the annual turnover of the
Company/firm/Agency named above for business related to CAMC for the Years 2021
- 2024 and it is as mentioned below; and that it is correct.

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Sr. | Description | Financial Year Financial Year | Financial Year
No. 2021-22 2022-23 ‘ 2023-24
Rs. (both, in figures | Rs. (both, in figures | Rs. (both, in figures
and words ) and words ). and words )
7 : }
1. Annual Turnover
| |

Place -
Date -
Name, Address, Signature and Seal of the Chartered
Accountant

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

sr ©


--- Page 56 ---
Page 56 of 68

Annexure-3

(To be scanned and uploaded) (Printed on
letterhead of firm/ company)

Self-Declaration regarding not being blacklisted

| Shri / Smt. Proprietor/ Director/
Authorised signatory of the Company/ firm/ Agency M/s
hereby declare that we are
not black-listed by any Central/State Government/Public Sector Undertaking or

 

any other organization for CAMC works in India or elsewhere.

We are not involved in any litigation that may have an impact on execution
of contract or may compromise the delivery of service as required under this

tender.

There is no Judicial case is pending in court of law against firm.

(Signature of Authorized Person)

Place:
Name
Date : Designation
Address:
Seal
Contractor For and_on behalf of NIT Agartala

ja &


--- Page 57 ---
Page 57 of 68

Annexure-4
(To be scanned and uploaded) (Printed on
letterhead of firm/ company)

SELF DECLARATION

Declaration as regards acceptance of terms and conditions of contract

1. | Shri. /Smt. Proprietor / Director
/ authorized signatory of the Company/Firm/Agency M/s
am competent to sign this declaration

and execute this tender document;

2. | have carefully read and understood all the terms and conditions of the
tender and undertake to abide by them;

3. The information/documents furnished along with the tender are true and
authentic to the best of my knowledge and belief. | / We, am / are well
aware of the fact that furnishing of any false information / fabricated
document would lead to rejection of my tender at any stage, besides the

liabilities towards prosecution under appropriate law.

(Signature of Authorized Person)

 

Place:
Name
Date : Designation
Address:
Seal
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 58 ---
Page 58 of 68

Annexure-5
(To be scanned and uploaded)

Personal & Bank Details for RTGS
All columns are mandatory

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
  
   

 

Sr .No. Personal Detail
i. NAME OF THE
COMPETENT PERSON &

AGENCY
ADDRESS OF THE
AGENCY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iY 3 CONTACT DETAILS 1) LANDLINE NO. :
2) MOBILE NO.:
3) e-mail ID:
5. PAN NO.
6. GST NO. -
Bank Details -
1. NAME OF THE AGENCY
FOR ONLINE TRANSFER
7 |NAMEOFTHE BANK. |S
3.__| CITY OF THE BANK Hoek Sane sane
4. ACCOUNT NO
5. ACCOUNT TYPE
6. BRANCH CODE
a. ADDRESS OF THE
BRANCH
8. IFSC CODE
9. MICR NO.
(Signature of Authorized Person)
Place: Name
Date : Designation
Address:
Seal
Contractor For and_on behalf of NIT Agartala

aA *


--- Page 59 ---
Page 59 of 68

Annexure -6

Details to be supplied before starting of work :

 

1 Name of the Agency
. (with office address)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. Name of Proprietor/ partner
3: Telephone Nos. of the firm
4. Name and address of the representatives
oer

5 24 Hrs. contact No.
6. Particulars of the License/ Registration |

ics E |

Contractor For and op-behalf of NIT Agartala

Ah


--- Page 60 ---
Page 60 of 68

~~

Annexure -7

COMPLAIN REGISTER GGA TIO 5.....sinicsialeoipeileelSnaieerreacess )

 

   
 

   
     
 
 

      
  
   

   
 
  
  

  
   
   

  
  
    

  
  
    
  

   
    
  

Date & Date &
Sl. Date a Nature of | ¢. sonvsihee Time of Material Signature of
No Tine Complaint ane oF attending | of Fault Used Firm’s
* | Complaint P Complainant s

complaint Representative

       

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

  

 

           

Firm’s Representative Junior Engineer

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

fa_ ©


--- Page 61 ---
Page 61 of 68

Annexure -8

Programme for Periodical Maintenance for the Week/ Month of

Name of Firm:
|
Details .:
a
Name of Site :
re cereal ieee “EE TOS

The firm shall see that the following work is carried out by an authorized person
appointed by him under these rules in a Week/Month and the result are recorded
by such person in log book.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Maintenance Type : Nature of
Sl Date & Time of ae
i (Monthly/ Quarterly/ ye Complaint (if
No. Yearly) Complaint (if any) any)
L |
| [
t 4
| L I
Firm’s Representative Junior Engineer
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

sah

/


--- Page 62 ---
Page 62 of 68

Annexure -9

Actual for Periodical Maintenance carried out for the Week/ Month of dy,

Name of Firm:

Details:

Name of Site :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S| Maintenance Type Result
No (Monthly/ Quarterly/ Date & Time (Satisfactory/
, Yearly) Unsatisfactory)
Firm’s Representative Junior Engineer
Contractor | For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

fr &


--- Page 63 ---
Page 63 of 68

Annexure -10

FAULT - FORMAT

 

 

Sl. No.
Date Time (of occurrence of Fault)
Date Time (of Reporting of Fault)

 

 

1. Fault Reported to : Technical support centre (Name of the person) on phone:

2. Mode of Reporting : Landline () Mobile (_ ) E-mail ( )

3. Description of fault & observation of the reporting officer.

an Aa eee eels ape, BB
net OE a ea Ee

4. Details of Services affected :

5. Date Time (of receiving the 1° assistance over phone from
Technical support centre)

6. Details of Assistance received:
(Note : Add additional sheet if needed)

7. Was the fault restored by following the instructions given over phone ?
A. YES B-NO (Tick whichever is applicable)

8. If Yes, record the date & time of restoration & duration of fault :

Date Time (In hours & Minutes)

 

9. Duration of fault Days Hours Minutes
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

: e
7 [or


--- Page 64 ---
Page 64 of 68

10. Was the fault restored ?
A. YES B-NO (Tick whichever is applicable)

11. If the fault is not restored or restored only partially, give details of observation : (Note:
add additional sheet if needed)

12. Note : Date & Time of giving feedback

Date Time (In hours & Minutes)
13. Date & Time of arrival of Firm’s Expert at site of Fault:

Date Time (In hours & Minutes)

14. Brief of observation and works done by the firm’s staff/ expert : (Detailed entry to be
made by firm’s staff in the Log-Book) :

15. Date & Time of complete restoration of system :
Date Time (In hours & Minutes)
16. Total duration of Fault : days hours minutes

17. Remarks of in charge (if any):

 

TT ee SSS

18. Remarks of visiting Engineer (of firm), if any:
eee Sensations ensunseppeesnsesapsanunssusnnaesseseessnonnsuseson canes

Countersigned by Engineer-in-charge

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

Ma &


--- Page 65 ---
Page 65 of 68

FORM-1

Details of the similar works in Hand

(On the letter head of the Con tractor

Name of Description Remarks

Customer of work Start | completion

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sign and Seal of Contractor

FORM-2

List of work related Equipment, Machinery and tools
tackles etc immediately available with the Bidder for
use on this work.

(On the letter head of the Contractor)

Description Function/Purpose

 

            

Sign and Seal of Contractor

FORM-3

Details of technical personnel with the bidder who will

be deployed forthis work
(On the letter head of the Contractor)

Whether Mode of Period for which
working employment & | the person is —
in Field Experience working with the
i Bidder

 

 
   

     

    
   
  

       
 

      
 

         
    

Sign and Seal of Contractor
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

M_—

/


--- Page 66 ---
Page 66 of 68

    

FINANCIAL BID-1 tl

Name of Work: “Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (CAMC) of Split/ Window/ Cassete

type Air Conditioner alongwith Deep freezers & Water Coolers installed at various department of
NIT Agartala.

DNleT No.: 139/NITA/Estate Elect. /2023-24

 
 
 
  

Sl.
No

Rate Amount
(In Rs.) (In Rs.)

Description of Item Quan

a
=
=

Comprehensive annual maintenance contract
of split/. window/ cassette type air-
conditioner of 1Ton/1.5Ton/2Ton/ 3Ton
capacity of various brands for the period of
three years.

 
     
          
  

ctr

_

cr
Na

  

 

B | 2nd Year 405 Each

 

 

    

Comprehensive annual maintenance contract
of 50 to 100 Ltr. Capacity Water Coolers of
various brands for the period of three years.

 
  
 

  

 

{oe

  

1st Year

B_ | 2nd Year Each

 

 

ag

 

Comprehensive annual maintenance contract
3 | of 100 to 300 Ltr. Capacity Deep freezer of
various brands for the period of three years.

 

Each

    
 
 

 

  
  

3rd Year

Supply of Spare parts (additional) of Air-
Conditioner, Water Coolers & Deep freezers
for the period of three years which are not
under CAMC only for departmental use.

 

 
 
  

je
°
oO

 

The Financial Bid is available on the e- procurement website

https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

t

 


--- Page 67 ---
Page 67 of 68

FINANCIAL BID-2
Supply of spare parts including installation/shifting/servicing charges of Air-Conditioners
as on required basis.
Bidders to put the rate of single item and quantity may be fixed as per requirement

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
  

 

 

 

 

No | Description of Item Unit | Quantity jas
1 | Compressor (1 Ton /2 Ton) : Each
[ 2 , Condens (1 Ton /2 Ton) ' | Each
L 3 | AC Gas, R22-R410 Kg
a | Capacitor 36-60 mfd (Outdoor) Each
9__| Capacitor 4 - 6 mfd (Outdoor) Each
6 | Compressor Jack Pin Pkt.
z | Fan Motor (1 Ton /2 Ton) Each
8 Le Blade (1 Ton /2 Ton) —_
9 | Capacitor 2 mfd (Indoor) Each
10 [ Swing Motor 3V (Indoor) Each
11 | AC Net (Indoor) Each
12 | PCB AC-DC (Indoor) Each
L 13 | Blower Motor (Indoor) Each
14 | Sensor (Indoor) Each
[15 LPG Gas Can, 450 Gm kg.

 

Welding Cu. Stick

 

 

 

 

Toto ot oa 1)VY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
Each 1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

 

L 17 | Tape Roll Each

18 | Canifome, 16 -20 mm Mtr.

19 | Copper Pipe, 16-20 mm Mtr.
[ 20 | Copper Wire, 2.5-4 sqmm Mtr. ;

21 | AC Indoor Water Pipe, 1.5-2 Mtr. Mtr.

22 | PVC Roll teach

23 | Wall Mounting Bracket Each

24 | Wall Mounting Hook l Each

25 | AC Installation & Servicing Charges | Job

26 | AC Shifting & Servicing Charges Job

27 | AC Remote Control Each

28 | Fast Nut, 4mm Each

29 | Gas Burner Each

30 | Leakage repairing | Each |
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Meare

yas


--- Page 68 ---
Page 68 of 68 4

FINANCIAL BID-3

 

| Supply of spare parts including installation/shifting/servicing charges of Water Cooler/ Deep

Freezer as on required basis.

 

Sl.
No.

 

Description of Item

Bidders to put the rate of single item and quantity may be fixed as per requirement

Rate Amount

eer (In Rs.) (In Rs.)

 

7 -

1 | Compressor (50 to 300 Ltr.)(R22 to R34)

 

Each

 

zZ 4 Condensor (50 to 300 Ltr.) (R22 to R34)
3 | AC Gas, R22-R600

 

Each
Kg
Each

 

 

4 | Capacitor 35-65 mfd
5 | Overload Relay

 

6 | Overload Water

 

Each

 

 

 

 

ame} eek ee ee | |

Each
Each

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28 | Gas Filter

 

 

29 | TDS Controller

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bee ee
LAS Se
7 | Fan Motor (50 to 300 Ltr.) ae. ||
8 | Fan Blade (50 to 300 Ltr.) Each 1 Se
9 | Capacitor 4 to 6 mfd Each | 1
10 | Thermostat Each 1 creamer rT
11 | PCB Batt | rebnnil  maio goes Or
12 | 4 to12V DC Motor Each 1 Mihi
13 | Black Carbon Each | 1
14 | Photo Sensor Each | 1
15 | LPG Gas Can, 250 to 450 Gm Kg. 1
16 | Welding Cu. Stick Each | 1
17 | Solinoid Buld Each 1 —
| 18 | Iron Filter Each. 1 ———
| 19 | PVC Candle Each 1 Pl ie |
20 | Tee/ Elbow Each 1
21 | Water Pipe Outlet 1 a
| 22 | PVC Pipe 2 to 6 mm en OSfayeqiweqges | FF ||
23 | Utra Virous with Candle 1 tc eiw Jandod.| OS |: |
| 24 | Adapter 12V to 24V 1 law asa et |
| 25 | Installation & Servicing Charges 1 —
26 | Shifting & Servicing Charges 1
27 | Water Tape 1 |-—_——_
1
divee Hi nolteMeiioAy eC ||
30 | RO Membrame Each 1
31 | Ultra Filer Each 1
32 | Mineral Cartage Each 1 ——
33 | Sediment Block 20” Each 1
34 | Carbon Block 20” Each 1

 

Contractor

 

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

wr
