
--- Page 1 ---
 

 

TENDER
FOR
CAMPUS
GARDENING,
CLEANING,
JUNGLE

 

 

 

HORTICULTURE
SERVICES
FOR
NIT AGARTALA
KE gw Qh We 2

eal and signature of the bidder

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CLEARENCE AND

 

 

 

 

 

|

_


--- Page 2 ---
PART - I
TECHNICAL BID

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 2 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 3 ---
PREFACE

Contents & Index
Check list

E-tender Enquiry

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 3 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 4 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

       
  
 

 

TENDER DOCUMENT (Two bid system)
Contents & Index
eS
THECNICAL BID
a

E-tender Enquiry i Fe

Brief Information about tender hie. i

| Abbreviations Used in Tender Document
|| Section -III Application Form (Application Forwarding Page)

   
 
 
 
   
   
    
     
   
   

 

 
 

  

  

   

  

Notice Inviting Tender ( NIT ) ape

: General information’s, scope of work and terms and
Section - V —
conditions

  

 
   
 
    
 

Eligibility Criteria

——
PRICE / FINANCIAL BID

Other Terms and Conditions

  

     
  

  

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 4 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 5 ---
£

je —

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

       

S— 1

|

The bidder shall verify his tender properly before its submission and satisfy that all the information is }
| submitted. Copy of documents should be numbered (page numbering) at the bottom. Numbering
should be started as Page No. 1 and continued; and should be properly attached to the Technical

bid.

| Sl. Requirement Checklist [Remarks | Page
No. for
| ref.

:

| Copy of registration/Trade License under Whether submitted

 

oO 7;

 

  

 
           
      
 

   
 

  
      

   
  

“Municipal Corporation/ Council / any
State/Central Govt.” should be submitted

El Copy of Service Tax Registration | Whether submitted PYes/No| |
13 | Copy of PAN registration | Whether submitted [Yes/No| _|
| . 4 _| Copy of EPF registration | Whether submitted [Yes/No] _|
| Copy of ESI registration |_ Whether submitted [Yes/No] _| :
| 6 | Copy of GST registration Whether submitted PYes/No| _|
| 7 | Copy of past service experience Certificate | Whether submitted [Yes/No]
| 8 | Copy of audited balance sheet of last three years Whether submitted | Yes/No] _|

   

 

  
 
 

 
    
    
 

       
   

     

    
   
     
 

      

  
   
   

 
  

     

  

     
    
  

   
     

    

 
 

   
   

 

  
   
  

Copy of Income Tax Return certificate of last | Whether submitted |
| three years |
11 | Affidavit on Rs. 200/- stamp paper duly sworn | Whether submitted | Yes/No |
before the Public Notary regarding Eligibility
| criteria No. 9 and 10 of the Notice Inviting Tender
BC&BG in an acceptable form safeguarding the
| purchaser’s interest in all respect as mentioned in
| 13. | If the bidder is a partnership company, copy of Whether submitted | Yes/No
partnership deed
| 14 _| If the bidder is a Private/ Public Limited Whether submitted | Yes/No |
the compan |
Vendor/Supplier/Contractor/Service provider | Whether submitted | Yes/No | |
should accept all Terms & Conditions of Tender
| Document. Deviation, if any, should be specified. |
| Details of any other documents (if any) submitted: |

Solvency certificate to be issued by any | Whether submitted | Yes/No |
Nationalized Bank in original.
12 | EMD by means of RTGS/NEFT preferably, DD, | Whether submitted | Yes/No
the e-Tender Notice | |
Company, copy of MOA/ registration document of
15 | Certification of non-black listing (Self | Whether submitted | Yes/No
| Certification)
17 | A valid MSE certificate under MSME / NSIC / ! Whether submitted | Yes/No |
| Start-up document
7% Cay
: se wr
tT %
‘i Sr Qe a (

 
   
  

€

|
KX

   

 

   

 

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 5 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 6 ---


--- Page 7 ---
 

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Cam

pus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

Section —I

Brief Information about tender

Seal and signature of the bidder

- Page 7 of 42 -

Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 8 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

   
 

  
 
 

REF INFORMATION ABOUT TENDER

BRIEF INFORMANTLO’L Aaa

     

Tender No. F.NITA.24(8-Dean P&D)/Mis/2010/Loose / 400. Date: 24Y o6& / 2023 |

  
  
   

  
 

| Name of work / service: Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture }
| services etc. to NIT-Agartala

|| Tendering Process: The bids (technical and financial) should be submitted online
through CPP portal i.e. www.epuocure.gov.in before the last date &
time of submission specified in tender document.

Prospective bidder/service provider may participate in the above!
tendering process. Every page of this tender document should be |
signed [Full Signature] by the bidder/Service Provider and scanned
copy of the same should be uploaded with technical bids. |

The bids should be submitted through CPP portal
(www.epuocure.gov.in) only. Bids submitted through any other
mode will not be accepted.

  

 

 
  

 

     
   
  
 

 
  

 

 
 
 
  

  

     

   

  

     
  
   
 

 
    
  

      

Duration of Contract: The period of contract, initially, will be 1(one) year which may be
extended for another two years on yearly basis with same terms
& conditions subject to the satisfactory performance of the service
provider which will be decided by the competent authority of NITA.

Evaluation Process: Both the Technical and Financial bids will be evaluated by a
committee to be constituted by NITA. In the first stage, technical
bids shall be opened and evaluated by the competent committee
/authority. At the second stage, financial bids of the bidder(s)
} qualified technically, should be opened for further evaluation and
} recommendations for awarding the work order / contract.
} Cost of Tender Document: The tender document is free of cost, which can be downloaded
from Institute’s website as well as CPP Portal (e-Procurement).

Date of Pre-Bid Meeting (offline): Ou, /,2%:. 2023 at 11.00 AM

| Last date of online submission of
Tender Document through CPP
| Portal under Government of India : 24 7,08... /2023 at 3.00 PM

} Date of opening of Technical Bid: 25/,.Q5h..../2023 at 3.00 PM

| Date of opening of Price Bid:

! Bid security (EMD amount): Rs. 2,06,000/- (Rupees two lakhs six thousand only) for Campus
Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services
(refundable) to be paid, preferably online mode, through RTGS/NEFT.
Payment of EMD through offline like DD, BC and BG is also acceptable.
Scan copy of payment, both online and offline as a proof, may be uploaded
in the CPP Portal along with Technical Bid of the said tender. The original
copy of DD, BC and BG should be reached to NITA before opening of |}
Technical Bid, otherwise bid(s) will not be considered for technical
evaluation. NITA will not be responsible for any delay caused due to postal /
courier services.

 

    
    
   

 
 
   
  
 
  
   

  
       
    
    
   
  

:
:

  
   
  

   
   

 
 
 
 

  
  
   

 
  

 
 

     
  
  
  
   
     

   
  
    
  
  
  

  
 
 
 
  
  

 
 
  
  
    
 

   

  
   
 
 
  

  

 
     
  

 
 

   
    
   

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 8 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 9 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

Security Deposit / Performance Guarantee Deposit(PGD) amount:

 

 

| The Contractor shall have to deposit an amount @ 5% of total value of the contract to be
awarded to the successful bidder as Security Deposit / Performance Guarantee

| Deposit (PGD) which shall be refunded after 60 days of expiry of the contract with

| adjustment of all applicable deductions, if any. !

| The Institute will not pay any interest towards the amount of EMD/Bid security
submitted against the tender.

 

 

| Validity of Bid : 180 days from the date of submission of bid.

| DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS |

|

1. DEFINITIONS: The following terms shall have the meaning hereby assigned to them
except where the context otherwise requires:

! a) NITA

| Shall mean National Institute of Technology Agartala, P.O. — NITA, West Tripura — |

 

799046, represented by its Registrar or other authorized representatives.

CONTRACTOR / AGEN eee

| b) CONTRACTOR / AGENCY / SERVICE PROVIDER

| Shall mean the successful bidder to whom the contract has been awarded which
| expression shall unless the context otherwise requires, include his legal heirs, executors,
administrators and assignees.

c) CONTRACT: CONTRACT AGREEMENT

CONLRACL MAS ee

 

| Shall mean and include the following:

| Notice inviting tender; tender document containing general instructions to the bidder and
conditions of contract; scope of work; clauses of contract etc., documents furnished by

| the bidder; Letter of Intent; Work order; all related Acts and Rules specified in the tender

document; and / or any other correspondences of negotiations and the price bid, all

| related correspondence letters.

|d) WORK /JOB/ SERVICE

ee

| Of the Contractor shall mean and include providing of Campus Gardening, Cleaning,
Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services in NITA as specified in the scope of work.

| e) CONTRACT PRICE

| Shall mean the sum / sums referred to in the contract agreement under Price bid or in the |
| work order/ letter of Intent.

! f) MONTH |
Shall mean calendar month. :
g) MINIMUM WAGE / WAGES:

| Shall mean the Minimum wage declared or ordered by the Central Government under
| Minimum wages Act from time to time. The total Minimum wage shall include Variable

| Dearness Allowance (V. D. A).
i R <x \ >) Br
Bc\ \ Pees YY Bo rt eS

VV ——

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 9 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 10 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services wv

yrs 8 SS a if

 

 

Section — II

Abbreviations Used in Tender Document

Registrar, NIT Agartala

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 10 of 42 -


--- Page 11 ---
Expanded form of the abbreviated terms used in the Tender document

: National Institute of Technology Agartala,
: Notice Inviting Tender,
: Employee’s Provident Fund,
: Annual Rate Contract,
: Earnest Money Deposit,
: Bank Guarantee,

: Rupees in Indian currency

i.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
q.
8.

Central Public Procurement Portal

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 11 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 12 ---
Section - III

Application Form (Application Forwarding Page)

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 12 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 13 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

  
 

    

Application form
(To be filled by the bidder ON LETTER PAD)
Date:

      
 
   
    

  
 

The Director,
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
West Tripura

i} Sub: | Submission of scanned copy of tender document duly filled in for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle
Clearance and Horticulture services on outsourcing basis in the technical segment/cover under CPP Portal.

        
  

Your Advertisement NO.......0-ssesesseeererneeesesey DALEG, es eeeeersersrrsenenecesnnss

 
 

| With reference to above, I/we wish to offer our services for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and
Horticulture services ON OUTSOURCING BASIS, stated in this tender document.

    
    

1. 1/ We have read and understood all the terms and conditions specified at various parts of this tender
document and agree to abide by all of the terms & conditions, unconditionally. As a token of
acceptance of these terms & conditions, we have signed each page of the bid document.

   
     
    

2. 1/ We agree to keep our offer valid for a period of 180 (one hundred and eighty) days, from the date of
opening of the bid.

     
     
     

3. 1/ We have enclosed herewith all the required documents

4. 1/ We do hereby declare that we have not been blacklisted by Central or State Government or by any
Central or State Government Organization.

 
 

5. I/ We do hereby undertake to produce the original certificates / documents whenever asked for by
NIT, Agartala. |

     

I / We hereby declare that all the information furnished along with this Bid is true in all respects.

   
   

(Signature of the Bidder)

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 13 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 14 ---
4

ce and Horticulture services a)

Section —IV

Notice Inviting Tender ( NIT )

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 14 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 15 ---
 
  
    
     
   
       
    
       
 

        
     
    

  
 

          

|

 
  
  
  
  
 
 

  
   

 
     
    
    

 
 

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

      
    
  
 

  

 
  

SiS ae

BARJALA,

% “-  -ph: 0381-2546630 Fax: 0381-25463

“E, ye NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
\ Ley (An Institution set up by NITSER Act un

Pears AM SPT
TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA
der MED, Govt of India)
JIRANIA, TRIPURA WEST — 799 046

60, Website: www.nita. ac.in

   

  

 

No.F.NITA.24(8-Dean P&D)/Mis/2010/Loose / 409

Press Notice Inviting Tender

Registrar, NIT Agartala invites online quotations from interested bidders/service provider/Firm/Agency for
| following services on outsourcing basis for NIT Agartala Campus and its Transit House at Kunjaban, Agartala:

 

Date: 24 / 06 /2023

 

   
 

  
 
 
 

|
:

 

 

  
  
 

   

Estimated Bid Pre-bid Bid Time and date
Sl. Name of the EMD | submission submission of opening of
Services noe start date Conference end date Technical Bid
Rs : (Offline) ; .
(Online) _| (Online) | __ (Online)
Campus
Gardening,
; fae oulteo23 |Ole2023 | 2hl2F023 251932023
Cleeunceund Lakhs |from 5.00 pm| at 11.00 am | upto 2.30 pm at 3.00 pm
Horticulture
services | L

 

 

 
  
  
 

  
 
   
 

  
 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

The bids (technical and financial) should
1) document, through CPP portal i.e. www.epuocure.gov.in
tender document. All details including ten
} Central Public Procurement Portal www.eprocure.gov.In .

Seal and signature of the bidder

 

be submitted online, with cost of EMD(refundable) mentioned in tender
before the last date & time of submission specified in
der document etc. will be available in our website: www.nita.ac.in and

 

  

 
 

 

- Page 15 of 42 -

 

Registrar, NIT Agartala

ax
Me f


--- Page 16 ---
   
 

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

   
  
  

 

Dat

 
  
     
  
   

NOTICE_ INVITING TENDER

   
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
  

} Online quotation in a two bid system, i.e. (i) Technical Bid and (ii) Financial/ Price Bid, are hereby invited
} through Central Public Procurement Portal (CPPP) www.eprocure.gov.in for “Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle

Clearance and Horticulture services including materials thereof as detailed below for the establishment of NITA
} (both Campus and Transit House at Kunjaban, Agartala) initially for a period of (one) year contract which may be
extended for another two years on yearly basis with same terms & conditions subject to the satisfactory performance
of the service provider which will be decided by the competent authority of NITA from suitable Agency / Bidder
Service Provider / Firm with experience for similar services for at least 3 years in Government Departments /
Public Sector Undertakings/ Government Organisations / Reputed Educational Institutions funded by Central or
State Governments / Government Organisations:

 
 
 
   
    
 
      

 
  
  
  
 

   

  

 
 

 
  
  
  
  
  

 
  

  

  
  

 

  
   

   
   
    
 
 
  

     
      

 

 

 
 
   

      
   
  
 
 
  

 

 

 

We ——|, 1x| of | ; Bid Time and date of
Estimated a Pre-bid oi ;
Sl. Name of the EMD | submission submission opening of
j; cost Conference
No. Services Rs. start date :
Rs . (Offline)
(Online) | __
Campus |
Gardening,
Cleaning,
Jungle 103.00 2.06 |24)S&/2023 Ou!» }2023 24 |o}2023
Clearance Lakhs Lakhs |from 5.00 pm| at 11.00 am Upto3.00 pm
and
Horticulture
services

 

 

 

 

   
 
  

The bids (technical and financial) should be submitted online, along with cost of EMD(refundable) and other
papers/documents mentioned in tender document, through CPP portal www.epuocure.gov.in on or before the last
date & time of submission specified in tender document. All details including tender document etc. will be
available in our website: www.nita.ac.in and Central Public Procurement Portal www.eprocure.gov.in.

  
        
 
     

Essential requirements

 
  

1. Scanned copies of duly signed tender documents and all pages of copies of the following documents, as
per details given in ANNEXURES are to be submitted in technical segment / cover under CPP Portal.

i. Cost of EMD

ii, Year- wise Audited turns over in rupees, during the last 3 years (which should not be less than Rs. 60.00
lakhs per year (Rupees sixty lakhs).

iii. Agency Profile

iv. Agency’s/ Company's Registration Certificate (CRC) & Experience in similar nature of work Certificate |
showing minimum 3 years experience in Government Departments / Public Sector Undertakings/
Government Organisations / Reputed Educational Institutions Funded by Govt./ Govt. Organisations

v. Photo copy of Agency’s up-to-date Audited Balance Sheet for the last three years.

vi. Employment Provident Fund & VAT Registration Certificate with Photocopies & Code Nos.

vii. Financial Solvency oo... (FSC) obtained from Nationalized Bank

viii. Photo copy of Registration Certificate

ix. PAN card number issued by Income Tax Department and its Photocopy.

x. Performance Certificates from all the Organizations where Services were provided during the last 3 years.

xi. Valid license regarding engagement of workers from Labour Department of Government of India/ State
Government, etc., as applicable

xii. Self declaration certificate in respect of non-black listing by any government organization.

     
   
 
      
      
          
    
      
 
      
     
 

The Successful Contractor/ Service provider will be required to deposit 5% of awarded cost of contract
(Refundable), as performance Guarantee Deposit (PGD) in the form of RTGS / NEFT (online mode) or a

   

    

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 16 of 42 - = Registrar, NIT Agartala

lo
>
*y


--- Page 17 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services oe

  
   
    

  

    

 
   

 

 

         
 

Demand Draft/ Bankers’ Cheque / Bank Guarantee from any Nationalized Bank in favour of egietrar. 7
(NLT. Agartala payable at Agartala, within 15 (Fifteen) days from the date of issue of work order from NIT
Agartala. EMD amount shall be refunded if PGD is submitted in full, the PGD will be refunded or released }
after expiry of Contract Agreement, subject to satisfactory completion of the contract. Interest is not
payable on the PGD. |

  
     
      
 
     
 
   

  
 
 
 

 
  

}| 1. SCOPE OF WORK:

     

The purpose of CAMPUS GARDENING, CLEANING, JUNGLE CLEARENCE & HORTICULTURE
SERVICE AT NIT AGARTALA ON OUTSOURCING BASIS is that the whole campus including Transit
house at Agartala must look Clean, Hygienic, Rich with lush green lawns, gardens and beautiful flowers so as to
provide an excellent ambience of work environment and at the same time makes the premises environmental
friendly and to make a good impression on the visitors and public who visit here for various purposes. Also roof
top of the building should be cleaned regularly. The contractor has to undertake all such jobs/activities required
maintaining the premises in a presentable condition and in above mentioned sprit at all the time whether such
activities are elaborated hereunder or not.

   
        
     
        
   
     
     

 
 
 
 

 

 
    

Description

 

Supply of workers including supervisors for maintenance of all the trees, plant, shrubs, hedges,
lawns, and flower bed preparation by uprooting the old plant for sowing planting of new seedlings
(seasonal and perennial both) and different types of cutting including earth work, spreading and
mixing of cow dung manure and fertilizers and leveling and bund making etc. To prepare and
maintain flowers and plant pots with flowers and plant both indoor and outdoor at designated places
to be decided in consultation with the designated officer. This job also includes regular watering of
grass, lawns, trees, shrubs, plant etc. Transportation and placing of decorative plant to various
seminars/functions if the Institute and back spraying of insecticides, pesticides, weedicides, on the
plant as and when required, removing and disposal of the waste to the proper place. Intercultural
operation and maintenance of the plants both in flower bed pots including preparation of soil mixture
(cow dung manure, soil, fertilizer) weeding, liming, manuring, filling of pots with soil mixture,
cutting of hedges, grass cutting in lawn and lifting the grass to the compost pit. Any other job which
is required to make the campus horticulture point of view beautiful with lush green environment. The
gardener (Mali) should demonstrate own initiative for horticulture up-gradation of NIT Agartala
premises. Seasonal plant(s) for the same should be prepared and submitted to the designated officer.
Cleaning/cutting of jungle and cleaning of roof top of buildings shall be carried out as per direction
of Officer-in-charge of NIT Agartala.

Clearing jungle including uprooting of rank vegetation, grass, brush wood, trees and saplings of girth
up to 30 cm measured at a height of 1 meter above ground level and removal of rubbish up to a
distance of 50 meter outside the periphery of the area cleared as per direction of concerned NITA
Official by engaging extra manpower and required equipment other than those mentioned in sl. no.
1) above

Cleaning grass and removal of rubbish up to a distance of 50 m outside the periphery of the area
cleared as per direction of concerned NITA Official, other than those mentioned in SI. No. (1) above

  
   
  

      
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

    
   
   
 

  
     
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

     

    

 
 
 
 

 
   
 

 
 

    
 

     
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

  
     

      

 
 

 
 

 
    
 

     

 

  
   
  

  
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
     
 

 
   
    
  

   

 

 

     
 
    

 
     

2. If the rates of the bidder found to be abnormally low or beyond common business practice or result of
unethical practices adopted at the time of tendering process, such tender should be rejected.

      
    

3. Each bidder shall submit only one tender for the work. A bidder who submits more than one tender will
cause disqualification of all the tenders submitted by the bidder.

      

4. The bidder, at his/her own responsibility and cost is advised to visit and examine the Site and scope of
service of Work and its surroundings and obtain all information that may be necessary for preparing the
tender for entering into a contract.

  
      
    

5. The tender submitted for the work shall remain valid for acceptance for a period of 180(one hundred and
eighty) days from the last date of submission of the tender.

       

6. If any bidder withdraws his tender within the validity period then the Institute shall, without
prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit the earnest money absolutely.

 
 
   
  

 

 
  
 

“
Seal and signature of the bidder - Pagé 17 of 42 -


--- Page 18 ---
 

             

   

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services
=r idder fails to commence the work specified in the tendering documents such time period as |
{ mentioned in letter of award after the date of issue of written orders to commence the work, or from
the date of handing over of the site, whichever is later, the Institute shall, without prejudice to any |
other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit whole of the earnest money absolutely.

  

   

  

8. The bidder should quote price(s) in BOQ given in CPP Portal and scanned copy of the same on company |
letter head should be submitted in Price / Financial segment / cover of CPP portal.

   
  
  
 

   
 
  

9, The minimum wages of the workers mentioned in the tender document shall not be below the rate as per
latest orders issued by the Office of the Chief Labour Commissioner(C), Ministry of Labour &
Employment, Government of India at the time and date of submission of bid/quotation.

 

 

  
 

—=
>

If any bidder quoted the rate below the Central Government minimum wages rate mentioned above, such |
bid will not be taken into consideration for further evaluation.

  

 

 

11. Bidders/Service Provider shall furnish self declaration certificate that they have not been blacklisted in any
department in India. Any wrong declaration in this regard which comes to notice at a later date will
disqualify them and the tenders so received will be rejected. Any bidder/Company/Contractor/Firm who
has worked in the campus of NIT Agartala and if the performance of such bidder/company/contractor/Firm |
was not found good by NIT, any time, such bidder/company/contractor/Firm will be treated as disqualified
for consideration.

 

    
  
  
 
  
 

 

 

12. Tax will be deducted as per norms as per notification of Government time to time.

 

 

13. Settlement of Disputes & Arbitration shall be within the jurisdiction of Tripura High court only.

 

Tender along with all other documents are to be put in 2 (two) separate segment/cover namely *Technical’
and ‘Price/Financial’ in CPP Portal.

 

 

 

 

a) First Segment / Cover i.e. ‘Technical’: Application Form and all other documents as mentioned in
ANNEXUREsS of PART - I of the tender document, duly filled in, should be put in this segment/cover under
CPP Portal.

 

 

 

 

 

b) Second Segment / Cover ‘Price/Financial’ : Duly quote the prices in ‘Financial/Price Bid’, and put it in
Second Segment / Cover under CPP Portal.

 

 

 

c) All the documents as per Part — I and I of the said tender document are to be put in CPP Portal on or
before the last date & time of submission specified in tender document.

 

 

 

 

 

Pre-Bid meeting should be online as per email ID given in the CPP Portal. Prospective bidders should send their
query/queries to the email on or before 2(two) days of the Pre-bid meeting scheduled in the tender document

 

 

 

The bidders/service provider or their authorized representative may watch process of opening of bid(s), both
technical and financial, through CPP Portal as per schedule date and time given in the e-tender,

 

 

 

If a bidder is declared qualified, after technical evaluation, then only the corresponding ‘Financial Bid’ of the
qualified bidder will be opened. Otherwise, the concerned tender will be summarily rejected.

 

 

 

The magnitude of work may vary as per requirement of the institute and will be intimated in due course of time, as
and when required..

 

 

 

The Competent Authority of the Institute reserves the right to cancel the tendering process any time and to
accept or reject any or all the tenders, without assigning any reason.

 

   
 
 
  

PUibh>
REGISTRAR

National Institute of Technology, Agartala

  

 


--- Page 19 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services
=> ra

 

Section —V

General information’s, scope of work and terms

and conditions

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 19 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 20 ---
  
   
      

| General information’s, scope of work and terms and conditions
1.0 PREAMBLE

     
     

1. National Institute of Technology, Agartala, herein after referred to as “NITA’ or
‘Institute’ only, would outsource the said services for the Institute campus/ Transit
house at Agartala.

 
 

|

 
   

2. The nature of Services” includes the details as per the “Scope and General Terms &
Conditions’ of the Job defined in PART — 1 of this document.

   
     

3. The Contractor/ Agency, herein after referred to as ‘Contractor’ or ‘Agency’ only,
will arrange/ provide manpower on minimum wage rates and statutory charges as
per orders issued by the Office of the Chief Labour Commissioner(C), Ministry of
Labour & Employment, Government of India and that would be quoted by the

Agency in the Financial Bid (given in PART — Il of this document).

                   
    
    
   

2.1 Category of Personnel etc & Eligibility Criteria.
(1) Age Limit of Personnel:

Age not below 18 years and not above 58 years.

 
 

Supervisor

Minimum 10+2 Pass. Age not below 25 years and not above 58years.

   
  
 
 
  

  
 
  

2.2 Estimated Manpower Requirement (Tentative)
(*) Manpower may not be required now(provision for future requirement)

[Dutyhours

 
  

Particulars

 
   
 

 

 

UN-SKILLED
Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and
Horticulture services

  
    
   
  
 

 
 
 

50 8 am to 4 pm

 

 

 

 

Note:-Number of workers mentioned above may
the requirement of the organization.

  
 

 

increase or decrease according to

   

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 20 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 21 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

 
   

Detailed Description of Work.

 

The purpose of CAMPUS GARDENING, CLEANING, JUNGLE CLEARENCE &
HORTICULTURE SERVICE AT NIT AGARTALA ON OUTSOURCING BASIS is that the whole
campus including Transit house at Agartala must look Clean, Hygienic, Rich with lush green lawns,
gardens and beautiful flowers so as to provide an excellent ambience of work environment and at the
same time makes the premises environmental friendly and to make a good impression on the visitors
and public who visit here for various purposes. Also roof top of the building should be cleaned
regularly. The contractor has to undertake all such jobs/activities required maintaining the premises
in a presentable condition and in above mentioned sprit at all the time whether such activities are
elaborated hereunder or not.

       
 
    
   
   
       
       
       

 

 

     
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
    

Description Required per month

Approximate

        
 

    
 

 

 

Supply of workers including supervisors for maintenance of all the
trees, plant, shrubs, hedges, lawns, and floor bed preparation by
uprooting the old plant for sowing planting of new seedlings
(seasonal and perennial both) and different types of cutting including
earth work, spreading and mixing of cow dung manure and fertilizers | Supervisor-02

and leveling and bund making etc. To prepare and maintain flowers | Gardener/Unskilled
and plant pots with flowers and plant both indoor and outdoor at Labour-50
designated places to be decided in consultation with the designated
officer. This job also includes regular watering of grass, lawns, trees,
shrubs, plant etc. Transportation and placing of decorative plant to
various seminars/functions if the Institute and back spraying of
insecticides, pesticides, weedicides, on the plant as and when
required, removing and disposal of the waste to the proper place.
Intercultural operation and maintenance of the plants both in flower
bed pots including preparation of soil mixture (cow dung manure,
soil, fertilizer) weeding, liming, manuring, filling of pots with soil
mixture, cutting of hedges, grass cutting in lawn and lifting the grass
to the compost pit. Any other job which is required to make the
campus horticulture point of view beautiful with lush green
environment. The gardener (Mali) should demonstrate own initiative
for horticulture up-gradation of NIT Agartala premises. Seasonal
plant(s) for the same should be prepared and submitted to the
designated officer. Cleaning/cutting of jungle and cleaning of roof
top of buildings shall be carried out as per direction of Officer-in-
charge of NIT Agartala.

Clearing jungle including uprooting of rank vegetation, grass, brush
wood, trees and saplings of girth up to 30 cm measured at a height of
1 meter above ground level and removal of rubbish up to a distance
of 50 meter outside the periphery of the area cleared as per direction
of concerned NITA Official by engaging extra manpower and
required equipment other than those mentioned in sl. no. (1) above
Cleaning grass and removal of rubbish up to a distance of 50 m | 30000.00 Sq. m
outside the periphery of the area cleared as per direction of concerned | (approx) in a year
NITA Official, other than those mentioned in SI. No. (1) above

  
   
      
       
        
      
    

 

      
            
    
   
   
     
     

   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
      

 
  

25000.00 Sq. m
(approx) in a year

 
 
    
    

 

 

 

 
   
    
 
 

  
   

 

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 21 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 22 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

  

 
    

   

     

 

shall deploy the works at

   
   
 
 

Campus as p

er above Table

1. For carrying out these functions, the contra
na on other occasions as and when required.
2. The contractor must also ensure the works of gardening and cleaning should not suffer on weekly off
| days of any workers. Duty roster must be prepared accordingly in consultation with designated officer of NIT
Agartala.
3, In the event of finding the NIT Agartala Campus premise not in the above mentioned spirit, penalty
upto 20% of the total amount of monthly bill will be imposed for concerned month.
4. If the services are found satisfactory, the contract may be renewed further on yearly basis as agreed
upon by both the parties within the rules and regulation applicable at the time.

“]

         
     
 

 

      
    

  

 
 
     
 
   

  
 

      
    
     

B. FURTHER DESCRIPTION OF WORK

The contractor shall, well and truly execute /perform the required services contracted to be
performed to the satisfaction of the Institute authority and / or his representative.

     

The job is to carry the work stated above up to the satisfaction of the institute authority in entire
NIT campus of 365 acres covering all buildings and Sheds (existing and new buildings to come
up) and Transit House (one building and a small campus) at Agartala Town as per further details
given below.

       
       
    
  
  

The bidder should visit NIT Campus to assess the total volume of Work.

14.0 TOOLS / EQUIPMENTS and MATERIALS TO BE PROVIDED BY THE
CONTRACTOR/ AGENCY

  
  
     
    

4.1.2 For Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services:

Sufficient gardening tools and equipments including 04(four) motorized grass cutting machines and
01(one) lawn mower is required. Bidder shall be arranged all the tools/equipments without any extra
cost to be paid by NIT Agartala (Except Pesticide, Fertilizer, Manure, Chemicals etc.).

The contractor has to make its own assessment of requirements for complete services under this
tender. Any item (s) required, but not mentioned above shall also be provided by the Contractor/
Agency. NIT will not provide any item.

       
    
     

5.0 OTHER TERMS & CONDITIONS

5.1 conpuct

Good behavior: The agency will ensure good behavior of all deployed personnel with
the students, staff / employees of NITS/ family members of NIT employees and visitors
to the Institute.

      
    

Conduct: In case any staff for services deployed by the agency commits any act of
omission or commission constituting misconduct or indiscipline, the Agency will be
liable and responsible to take disciplinary action against the personnel/ staff, including
suspension, dismissal from service etc. or removal of concerned staff and handing over to
Police, if required.

     
      

 
 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 22 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

op


--- Page 23 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

   
   

5.2 PENALTY

 
   

recovery of any amount from contractor’s bill.

The Director of the Institute will have the right to impose any penalty for lapses of services and for !

   
    

  

5.3 SELECTION, RECRUITMENT AND CONTROL OF PERSONNEL

© The Contractor will be the “Employer” within the meaning of different labour legislations in respect of the
personnel employed and deployed. All the personnel deployed shall be under the direct control and }
supervision of the contractor.

       
    
   
   
    

e The personnel deployed by the Contractor will be bound to observe all instructions issued by Institute's
authority.

e The contractor shall provide a complete list of the personnel engaged with full postal addresses,
qualifications, passport size photographs in its final form to concerned Officers of NIT, Agartala.

    
   
     

5.4 peRiop OF CONTRACT, TERMINATION/ EXTENSION

e The duration of the contract shall be initially for a period of I(one) year which may be extended for another
period of two years on yearly basis with same terms & conditions subject to the satisfactory performance of
the service provider which will be decided by the competent authority of NITA.

    
    

e The Director of the Institute has the absolute right to terminate the contract at any time before the due date
of expiry if service provided unsatisfactory/poor quality/serious complaint of irregularities by giving 2
(two) month’s notice in advance, to the Contractor, in writing, or, by making equivalent payment thereof.
The Director of the Institute shall also have the right to extend the contract in writing on the same terms
and conditions or with some addition/ deletion/ modification for a further period of | (one) year, or, for a |
shorter period until a new Agency takes over (in the event of Institute resorting to the process of appointing
a fresh Contractor/Agency).

 
    
      
        
     
    
   
  

  
 
 

e Inthe event of the Contractor desiring an earlier termination of the contract, two (2) months advance notice
shall be given to the Registrar of Institute in writing.

 
 
     

© Incase of termination of this contact/ agreement on its expiry or otherwise, the staff, or personnel engaged
and deployed/ deputed by the Contractor, will not be entitled to and will not claim any absorption in the
regular or otherwise services of the Institute. The personnel of the Contractor will not claim and will not be
entitled to pay, perks or any other facilities as admissible to the regular’ confirmed employees of the
Institute during the subsistence of the contract/ agreement and even after the expiry of the
Contract/Agreement.

 
 
   
 

|

     
        
   

5.5 PAYMENT, LEAVE, STATUTORY OBLIGATIONS

 

e Bio-Metric system shall be adopted in respect of attendance of the workers engaged for Campus
Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services in NITA.

       

e The amount payable to the Contractor per month should be quoted separately in Financial Bid.

       

e The Contractor will be paid by NIT, Agartala on monthly basis for his services against submission of bills
within 2 weeks from the date of submission of bill. Due to some unavoidable reasons, if payment is delayed
by NITA, the Agency/Contractor will make the payment to its manpower without waiting for payment by
NITA to the Agency/Contractor.

  
   
    
    

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 23 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

|


--- Page 24 ---
oF

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

   
  

    

     
    
  

~ The Contractor will ensure payment of wages to his personnel within the period pres
( Laws for the purpose. The Contractor will follow all statutory requirements as per labour laws prevailing
during the contract period and will be wholly responsible for breaking any such law.

 
 

 

cribed under aes |
}
|

 

 

   
     
  

 
   
  
   

  
   
 

e The Contractor will be responsible and liable for the implementation of all statutory provisions in respect of |
Minimum Wages, Provident Fund, medical insurance (if applicable) etc. as and when they become |
applicable under the Labour Laws in connection with personnel to be deployed by Agency. The Contractor }
shall maintain all the statutory registers under the law. As per Minimum Wage Notification of |
Government of India, each personnel should get minimum wage. If required, the wages to each
personnel may be paid in presence of authorized Officer(s) of NIT, Agartala.

 
 
    
  

  

       
    
     
     
   
     
 

e NITA will not pay any extra amount, other than what will be mentioned on |
agreement/contract order.

5.6 OTHER CONDITIONS

e Institute shall not be responsible financially or otherwise for any injury to the personnel in the course of
their performing the duties, or for payment of any compensation.

     

e Incase of breach of any of the terms of Agreement, the security deposit of the Contractor will be liable to
be forfeited by the Institute. In addition, the Contract/Agreement will also be liable to be terminated. Any
sum of money due or payable to the institute including the security deposit refundable to him under the
contract can be appropriated by the Institute against any amount which the contractor may owe to the
National Institute of Technology Agartala.

 
    
      
     
  
    
 

 
 

e Income Tax will be deducted at source (TDS) as per prevailing Income Tax laws and certificate to this
effect shall be provided to the Contractor by the Institute. Any other statutory taxes applicable in Tripura
may be deducted from the Bills, if the same is not paid by the agency. |

|

 
 

    
   
    

    
 
 

    

e Incase of any difference of opinion or dispute arising between the two parties, the decision of Director,
NIT, Agartala of shall be final and binding upon both the parties.

   

¢ The Contractor will be required to sign a written Agreement before the initiation of the contract. The
Agreement shall be one for services and not of services.

      

© The Institute will not be liable to provide any accommodation or food to the staff who will be engaged in ]
the Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services. Contractor has to make his
own arrangement for boarding and lodging of his personnel

     
 
    

e The Contractor will have to bear the expenses incurred on stationery, registers etc. for writing duty charts
etc.

       

© The Contractor shall not be permitted to transfer or sublet or assign his rights and obligations under the
contract to any other organization or otherwise.

    
    

© The bidder must have valid labor license from the appropriate authority before entering into agreement

 
    

e In case of need, the Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services
manpower deployed by Agency may also be used by NITA, for shifting of documents, furniture,
office equipment, small portable machineries from one location inside NIT campus/ Transit House to
another location in the same Campus or to any other location outside the Campus, as and when
required, without any extra cost to be paid by NITA to the Agency.

     
      
    
    
    

e The agency will set up one Office inside NIT Campus which will be Coordinating Office for Campus
Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services. NIT will provide a room/ shed
without any rent and electricity charge, but all furniture and office equipment shall be arranged by
the Contractor/ Agency at its own cost.

   
  
       
       
  

Every page of the Tender document should be signed by the bidder.

 

S A

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 24 of 42 -

    
 

  
 

Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 25 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

     

  
 

  
   
 
  
  

     
    
        
    
    

|
é

.0 PANEL OF CONTRACTORS /AGENCIES
|

  
  

| A panel will be made based on the rate on the bidder(s) which will remain valid for the period of
| 01(one) year. |

        

If a bidder forgoes or surrender the work within this period the next bidder may be offered the
work at the rate of L1 bidder.

However the decision of the Authority, NIT Agartala will be the final.

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 25 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 26 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

    

SECTION - VI

ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA

Lite ee

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 26 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 27 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

     
  

    

. easier

ee ot oa |

     

 

       
 

| The bidder should give all the details that are inserted in the Tender Document, details of their !
eee soundness in carrying out similar work (in Government Departments/ Government |

 
   
   

      
     
  

   
  
  
   

Undertakings/ public sectors/ reputed private sectors/ reputed Educational Institutes along with
the certified copy of “Work/ Service Qualification Certificate” issued by the employer. The

profile containing the staff structure along with list of staff on regular pay role for last six months
ll should be furnished along with the copy of all related documents.

 

         
   
      
  
 

All information called for in the bid document should be furnished in the relevant formats
in the Tender document. If bidder wants to furnish more details, may be uploaded along with the
Technical bid.

MINIMUM TECHNI

        
  
 

CAL CRITERIA REQUIREMENT FOR UALIFYING IN THE

TECHNICAL BID
The prospective bidder should possess all the following minimum technical criteria for
| qualifying in the technical bid:

|

     

     

 
     

1. The bidder should have experience in having successfully run the Campus Gardening,
Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services in Organization/Institute under
Central/State Governments during the last three financial years ending 31 March 2023.

      
      

2. During the last three financial years the bidder should have undertaken

a) Two similar completed/ongoing works (preferably one of them in a renowned Govt.
Educational Institution) in the past 3 financial years (including 2022-23) each costing not
less than Rs. 30.00 Lakhs per annum.

         
 
      
 
    

OR

b) One similar completed/ongoing work (preferably in a renowned Govt. Educational
Institution) in the past 3 financial years (including 2022-23) with costing not less than Rs.
60.00 lakhs.

3. Average Annual Turnover: The bidders average annual turnover (gross) in Campus
Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services during the last three financial
years i.e. 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23, duly audited by Chartered Accountant, should not be
less than Rs. 60 lakhs (Rupees sixty lakhs only). Year in which no turnover is shown would
also be considered for working out the average. Copy of the Audited financial statements should
be attached.

4. Performance Certification: The bidders’ performance for Campus Gardening, Cleaning,
Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services completed in the last three years and work in hand
should be certified by the responsible official from the concerned organization. The certificate
should be enclosed with Technical bid.

5. The Bidder should have a valid Trade License issued by any government or local bodies.

     
  
       
        
     
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
     
     

   
   
  

 
 
 

|
|

   
 
  
 

6. The bidder must possess valid labour license from Central/state government and should follow
the labour law.

7. The bidder must possess GST registration. Copy of GST registration should be submitted.

1 The bidder must possess PAN registration with Income Tax department. Copy of PAN
registration should be submitted. = "—&Q
Ate 6

  
          

= —————————— oe — —— = ————————— =

“
Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 27 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 28 ---
90

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

 
 

     
 
 
  
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
  

v The bidder must be registered under E ployees Provident Fund (EPF) Act. Copy of EPF
registration should be submitted.

10. The bidder must be registered under Employees State Insurance (ESI) Act. Copy of ESI |
registration should be submitted.

11. Financial soundness: A solvency certificate for the amount not less than Rs. 25 lakhs }
(Rupees twenty five lakhs) from a Scheduled bank should be furnished by the agency. The
scanned copy of Solvency certificate should be submitted along with Technical bid and |

original will be forwarded to Institute within the due date and time for submission of bid. |

| 12. The bidder should not have abandoned or suspended any awarded service of any organization

out of term. Affidavit to this effect should be submitted by the bidder as per the format

provided in the bid document.

| 13. The bidder should not have been blacklisted / debarred from competing by any organization.

Affidavit to this effect should be submitted by the bidder as per the format provided in the

bid document.

14. Bidder should provide Staff Structure for engagement, if he/she gets the work order.

The NITA shall evaluate the Technical bid strictly on the basis of eligibility criteria

stipulated in the Tender document/notice inviting tender. The decision of the NITA in this

regard is final and binding to all concerned. No correspondences from the bidder in respect of

decision of the NITA on evaluation of the technical bid shall be entertained.

The bidder(s) may inspect the NITA premises on the date(s) slated for them and get all
related information from the Dean (P&D) or any other responsible authorized person before
quoting rate(s) as per tender document, If the date(s) mentioned above falls on any incidental
holiday/strike, then the next working day will be the date fixed in place of the date falling on
incidental holiday/strike. Any further details required may be obtained from the Office of the
Dean(P&D) of NIT-Agartala during the office hours.

CRITERIA FOR PRICE BID:

LRA SSO

   
   
 
   
   
 
  
  
  
    

  
    
   
  

  
  
 

       
 
        
      
      
        
         
   
      
   
    
    
 
     
   
    

Price bid as per BOQ to be uploaded in the CPP portal (https://www.eprocure.gov.in) as
per requirement mentioned therein. Lowest bidder (L1) will be considered for awarding
contract subject to fulfillment of other terms & condition laid down in Tender Document.

       

Bidder should quote price in BOQ format given in CPP Portal. The financial quote
| should be as per latest orders issued by the Office of the Chief Labour Commissioner(C),
Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India and also fulfillment of all other
requirements and obligations under Contract labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act 1970;
| Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Rules 1971; Minimum Wages Act — 1948;
Payments of Wages Act 1936; Payment of Bonus Act 1965; Payment of Gratuity Act 1972;
Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act — 1952 and Amendment Act
1988; Employees State Insurance Act.

        
       
   
   
    
    
 

Minimum service charges for running the “Campus Gardening, Jungle Cutting and
Horticulture etc. services” shall be 3.85% as per the Office Memorandum vide No.
F.6/1/2023-PPD dated 6" January, 2023 Govt. of India, Ministry of Finance, Dept. of
Expenditure.

     
    
    
   
   
 
      
  

The bidder who quotes service charges less than 3.85% shall be treated as
disqualified.

A scan copy of price bid in the letter head of the bidder may also be uploaded along with other documents
of quotation.

  

offers should be opened on the date and procedure

 

Price bids of only the technically acceptable/qualified
adopted in CPP Poytal(www.eproc é.gov.in). £

 
  
   
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

| Sol)

 

(
Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 28 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala b/ Fe,


--- Page 29 ---
SECTION - VII

OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF TENDER

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 29 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 30 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

   
 
  
   

    
 

 
  
  

Vv HER TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF TENDER

1. Subject to the NITA’s right to accept any tender/reject any or all the tenders, the NITA_ will
award the contract to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be substantially responsive to |
the tender document and who has offered evaluated acceptable Tender Price, provided further !
that the bidder has the capability and resources to carry out similar type of contracts effectively. }
Bids of those bidders, who in the opinion of the NITA do not satisfy the above requirements, will
not be considered.

2. All Statutory tax deductions at source (TDSY/GST connected with the contract shall be made from
the contractor’s bill at the rates in force from time to time. Any tax omitted for deduction shall be
deducted from the subsequent bills/security deposits.

3. The price quoted by the bidder should be INCLUSIVE of all taxes including GST and all other
statutory obligations.

  

  

  
  

 
 
  
 

 
 

     
      
        
 
   
  
  

 
 

 
 

4. The successful bidder shall execute an agreement on a non-judicial stamp paper/document of |
Rs.200/- (Rupees two hundred only) to be supplied by the bidder within 15 days from the date of }
intimation of acceptance of the Contract Order. Failure on the part of the bidder to execute the
agreement within 15 days with NITA will entail cancellation of the Contract Order and forfeiting
the Bid Security amount in full without entertaining any correspondence or any reasons |}
whatsoever.

5. The bidder is advised to visit the location/site/NITA and acquaint himself with the operational
system. The cost of visiting the site shall be borne by the bidder. In case bidder is not interested to
visit the location/site of NITA prior to submission of quotation, it shall be deemed that the |
bidder is aware of the operational conditions prior to submission of his bid.

6. The bidder shall not make or cause to be made any alteration, erasure or obliteration to the text of |
the tender document. If found, bid document is liable to be rejected.

7. Incase the bidder has any doubt about the meaning of anything contained in the tender document, |}
may be clarified during the Pre-bid meeting.

 
 
   
    
 
   
     
    
  
  
  

  
   

  
    
      
    

 
 

   

   
  
     
 

8. Bids and all accompanying documents shall be in English. In case any accompanying documents
are in other languages, it should be accompanied by an English version. The English version shall
prevail in matters of interpretation.

    
    

9. The bidder shall quote his rates in Indian rupees.
10, Conditional bids/offers shall be summarily rejected.
11. A bidder signing the whole bid document must specify whether he/she is signing as
a. Asole proprietor of the firm or constituted attorney of such proprietor,
b. A partner/ managing partner of a partnership firm. In this case, he/she must have a clear
legal authority to sign for the firm.
c. Managing Director /Constituted attorney/Authorized signatory, if for a Company.

     
  

 
  

   
    
     
 
  
  
  
 

 
  
 
 

    
 

 

12. If an individual makes the tender, it shall be signed with his full name and his complete address

shall be given. If it is made by partnership firm, it shall be signed by all the partners or the |
authorized signatory who shall sign his own name and give the name and address of each partner
of the firm and attach a copy of ‘Power of Attorney’ with the tender authorizing him to sign on |
behalf of the other partners. A certified copy of the ‘Registered Partnership Deed’ shall also be
submitted along with the tender. In case the tender is made by or on behalf of a company
incorporated under the Companies Act 1956, it shall be signed by the Managing Director or by
one of the Directors duly authorized on his behalf and shall include a copy of the ‘Power of
Attorney’ with the tender. A certified copy of the registered Deed shall also be submitted along
with the tender.

   
 
  
 
       
 

  
 
  

  
 
 

 

  
        
  
     
    

13. The NITA will declare a firm/bidder ineligible either indefinitely or for a specified period of time

at the sole discretion of the NITA for the award of contract/participating in the tenders if at any
time the NITA determines that he has furnished false information/engaged in corrupt or
fraudulent practices. "es eo

 
 
    
  

  

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 30 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 31 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

 
  
   

 
 

  
 

        
 
  
      
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

  

  

SSS SS zy

14. Forfeiture of EMD/Bid security a d Security Deposit: Th EMD/Bid security and Security }
Deposit shall be forfeited in case of any breach of terms and conditions of the contract. |

15. Prior to the expiry of the period of validity of the tender, the NITA will notify the successful
bidder in writing that his/her tender has been accepted. On receipt of this letter, the successful
bidder will have to enter into the agreement. The cost of the non-judicial stamp paper/document
paper shall be borne by the contractor. If the bidder fails to execute the agreement within the
specified time, the bid security shall be forfeited to the NITA in full and the tender will be
rejected. If as a result of such measures due to the default of the bidder, any loss to the NITA
results, the same will be recovered from the bidder by suitable course of action including legal
proceedings.

 

  
    
        
     
    
      
      
    
 

16. Mode of measurement of work/service: The service carried out shall be measured as per the
unit mentioned in the Price bid.

  
     

17. A) The bidder who quotes lowest rate/bid for Housekeeping and other related services will be the
successful bidder along with other conditions subject to its acceptance by the NITA.

 
  

   
 

B) If situation arises that more than one bidder quote the same rate or agreed to work on the same
rate, in that circumstance, the following preference will be taken into consideration in selection of |
L, bidder:

 
   
 

        

i) Maximum experience Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and
Horticulture services in IITs, NITs and other Government organization.
ii) Maximum number of Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and
Horticulture services runs by the bidder.
iii) Maximum turnover in last three years.

      
     
    

18. If any of the particulars provided in the Bid are subsequently found to be untrue or false, the
Bidder/contractor shall be liable to be adequately penalized in the manner, the Institute may deem
appropriate including termination of the contract itself and/or at the discretion of the Institute,
full/partial forfeiture of the contractor’s EMD/security deposit.

19. Any effort by a bidder to influence the Institute in the bid evaluation or in any other manner is
likely to cause summarily rejection of the bid.

 
    
     
 
     
    
  

20. The bidder has to submit a self declaration certificate stating that he or she or his/her organization
has not been blacklisted by any State or Central Govt. Organization/Authority during the last
three years.

21. Competent Authority of National Institute of Technology, Agartala reserves the right to cancel
the entire e-tendering process at any stage of the procurement process.

           
    
     
    

22. National Institute of Technology, Agartala is following and abide with the Public Procurement
(Preference to Make in India), Order 2017, DIPP, MoCI Order No. P-45021/2/2017-B.E.II dated
15th June 2017 and subsequent amendments to the order. Accordingly preference will be given to
the Make in India products while evaluating the bids, however, it is the sole responsibility of the
bidder(s) to specify the product quoted by them is of Make in India product along with respective
documentary evidence as stipulated in the aforesaid order in the technical bid itself.

        
         
    
    

3. If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME rules, the bidder
shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria".
In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover / Experience Criteria, the supporting
documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded with technical bid.

  
 
        
    

94. If the bidder is a Start-up, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder
Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria", In case any bidder is seeking exemption from
4

 
    
   

  

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 31 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 32 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

© Turnover

25. Contractor/Service Provider shall have to ensure that all the sta
} following all instructions issued by Central/ State Governments
Covid-19 pandemic.

Seal and signature of the bidder

7 Experience Criteria, ' the supporting documents prove h
} must be uploaded with technical bid.

- Page 32 of 42 -

is eligibility for exemption

ffs engaged by them in NITA are
from time to time in respect of

 

Registrar, NIT Agartala

—————

 

 


--- Page 33 ---
 

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

Section — VIII

Annexure

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 33 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 34 ---
g\0

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

   

    
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
   

Submitted
(YES/NO)
to be filled by

DESCRIPTION

 

   

 

 
  

 

Payment of EMD through Online or Offline i.e. RTGS
/NEFT/ DD/ BC/BG is made
Downloaded Tender Document signed on all pages by
the Official of the Bidder.
Year- wise turn over in rupees, during the last 3 years
(which should not be less than Rs. 60.00 lakhs per year
_| (Rupees sixty lakhs) _
Annexure- IV Details of Agency’s profile
Annexure- V Agency’s/ Company’s Registration Certificate (CRC) &
| Experience in similar nature of work Certificate
! showing minimum 3 years experience in Government
Departments / Public Sector Undertakings/ Government
| Organisations / Reputed Educational Institutions Funded by |

 
 
   
  
  
  
   

 

  
    
  

    
    
 
   

 

    

 
   
   

Govt./ Govt. Organisations

Photo copy of Agency’s up-to-date Audited Balance
Sheet for the last three years.
Employees Provident Fund Certificate with
Photocopies & Code Nos.

Financial Solvency Certificate (FSC) obtained from
Nationalized Bank not below Rs. 25.00 lakhs per year
| (Rupees twenty five lakhs)

Photo copy of GST Registration Certificate

| PAN card number issued by Income Tax Sapartaat|
and its Photocopy.
Performance Certificates from all the Organizations
where Services were Provided during the last 3 years. tlh

 

 

:
| Annexure- VI
|

 
  
    
  

   
  
  
 
 

  
 
 
 

  
    
   
  
 

Annexure- VII

   
    
  
 
 
  
   
   

 

 

   

| Annexure- VIII

| Annexure-IX
| Annexure- X

 
  

 

 
   

  
   
 
   
    

 

 

    

Annexure- XI

    
  
  
   
   
  

  
 

 

 

  

   
 
 

| Annexure-XII Valid license regarding engagement of workers from
Labour Department of Government of India/ State

| Government, ete., as applicable

end Availability of Critical Equipment

| Annexure-XIV Information on litigation history in which Bidder is the

   

Petitioner.
|
!

 

 

  

  
     

 

 

Note:-All the above Annexures to be submitted in sequence in separate sheet and non-submission of
any one annexure may lead to disqualification or rejection.

  

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 34 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 35 ---
a

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

   
   

DETAILS OF ANNEXURES —

| DD/ BC for Cost of Tender and Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) to be attached

] Annexure- II

Downloaded Tender Document signed on all pages by the Official of the Bidder.

| After downloading the Tender Document, all pages should be signed and submitted as Annexure-II
Annexure- III

Year- wise turn over in rupees, during the last 3 years (which should not be less than Rs. 60.00 lakhs per year
| (Rupees one hundred lakhs)

Provide the information in the following Table

Financial Turnover of the Tendering agency for the last 3 Years:

 

Year Amount (in lakhs) Mention the name of the authentic
document submitted as Proof

 

2020-21
2021-22

 

 

 

 

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 35 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 36 ---
   
 
  

    
     
        
      
      

| 1

    
    

 
    

     

 
 

    
         
 
  

Profile of the Tendering Agency

| The Agency/ Company is required to furnish the fol lowing information along with the ‘Technical |
| Bid? of the tender (ON LETTER PAD) |
| 1.
2:
3. Name of the Contact person (s) with address:

oe aus

0. Date of Establishment :
11. Date of registration of the Tendering Agency with Government and Registration No. |
12. Total No. of staff employed by the Tendering Agency :

Total No. of Officers Non Officers
Number of
Employees

13, Names and qualifications (including professional qualifications) and experience of Senior
Executives, advisors and Consultants of the Tende

ring Agency. |
| Sl. No. | Name t Position Qualification Experience |

14. Addresses with Telephone Numbers of the Regional Offices of the Tendering Agency in

| 15. Give the details of major Contracts handled by the Tendering Agency in the past 3 years in

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

 
  
      

Name of the Tendering Agency:
Postal Address: :

Name, Designation and address of the person (s) authorized to sign on behalf of and |
responsible to the bidding Tendering Agency (herein after referred as bidder) :

Whether the firm is private or public limited :
Names of Partners, their present nationalities with their liabilities

Telephone No:

Email ID of the Tendering Agency : |
Place of Headquarters of the Tendering Agency : |
Local Tripura Branch Office Address, if any : !

 

 

Ex- Servicemen Civilians Ex-Servicemen :

 

 

 
  

|
|
India.

the following format :
Customer details with Amount of Contract | Telephone no. fax, Duration of
address Email etc. Contract

 

 

 

 

 

Signatures of the Contractor/ Agency

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 36 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

g\6


--- Page 37 ---
3)

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

   

Annexure- V

 
     

Agency’s/ Company’s (a) Registration Certificate (CRC) & (b) Experience in similar nature of work
Certificate showing minimum 3 years experience in Government Departments / Public Sector Undertakings/
Govt Organisations / Reputed Educational Institutions Funded by Govt./ Govt. Organisations

   
       
    

a) Registration Certificate: (Photocopy of Certificates to placed )

     

b) Experience in similar nature of work Certificate showing minimum 3 years
experience in Government Departments / Public Sector Undertakings/ Govt Organisations / Reputed
Educational Institutions Funded b Govt./ Govt. Organisations

   
     
    
 

    
  
  

 

   

    

   

    
 

   

  

  
   
 
  
 

Name of ~ Date of Date of Actual date of Contract Name of
work with | commenceme completion as completion amount (Rs.) | client, contact
brief nt per work order with his
particular complete
thereof address

phone

number

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
 
  

Note: Copies of work order & completion certificates from clients shall be attached. Please mention whether
certificates attached or not: YES/NO

Signature of bidder with date

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 37 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 38 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

—=

 

 
   

| Photo copy of Agency’s up-to-date Audited Balance Sheet for the last three years to be submitted

Annexure- VII

Employees Provident Fund Certificate with Photocopies & Code Nos.
DETAILS OF EPF REGISTRATION

. Name of the agency

_ EPF Registration No.
3. Valid for :
_ Name & Address of the issuing authority

(Copy of EPF Registration documents to be attached.)

Signature of the agency

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 38 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 39 ---
9?

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

 

Form OF SOLVENCY CERTIFICATE FROM A SCHEDULED BANK
(On Bank’s Letter Pad)

| with above noted address, a customer of our Bank is respectable and can be treated as good for any engagement jj
| uptoalimitof Rs.

| This certificate is issued without any guarantee or responsibility on the Bank or any of the officers.

Signature of Bank Official with name and contact telephone
| Number.
Note: Any other Format as per practice followed by the Bank may be accepted, but submission of solvency
Certificate without Bank’s Letter Pad and without the name, designation, and contract telephone number/email id |
| will not be accepted and tender may be rejected. i

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 39 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 40 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

 

   
    
    
 
    
   
 
   

 
 

Name of the agency

GST Registration No.
3. Valid upto (Date)
4. Name & Address of the issuing authority:

(Photo copy of GST Registration Certificate to be placed here)

Annexure- X

    

  

 

PAN card number issued by Income Tax Department and its Photocopy.

    

PAN card number issued by Income Tax Department: (should be the name of
Agency/contractor/Bidder/Firm only/PAN Card on individual name who is not the bidder wil not be accepted)

  
    

  
 

   
 
  

| Annexure- XI

  

  

   
  
     
     
 

Performance Certificates from all the Organizations where Services were Provided during the last 3 |
years.

 
 
 

 
   
    
 

Performance Certificates from all the Organizations where Services were Provided during the last 3 years to be
attached,

(If for any agency which is already functioning in NITA campus and its performances not found
satisfactory, the bid/tender may be rejected.

   
  

}
| Annexure- XII

|

   

Valid license regarding engagement of workers from Labour Department of Government of India/
State Government, ete., as applicable

   
    
 
   

Name of the agency

   
  

     

License No.
3. Valid upto (Date)
4. Name & Address of the issuing authority:

  

(Photo copy of License document to be placed here)

Annexure — XIII:-Information on litigation history in which Bidder is the Petitioner.(if any)

 

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 40 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

     
    

a


--- Page 41 ---
a.

NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

 

PRICE / FINANCIAL BID

AS PER BOQ FORMAT
OF THE TENDER TO BE UPLOADED IN
CPP PORTAL

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 41 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala


--- Page 42 ---
NIT- Agartala: Tender Document for Campus Gardening, Cleaning, Jungle Clearance and Horticulture services

 

     
   

FOLLOWING CONTEXT OF FINACIAL BID FOR HOUSEKEEPING AND OTHER RELATED
SERVICES WILL BE INCORPORATED IN BOQ UNDER CPP PORTAL

    
      
  
   
 
   
   
       

    
  

A) TABLE-I (BREAK UP OF MONTHLY CHARGES FOR each Manpower)
NUMBER OF
MANPOWER PER

DAY

 

Nature of Manpower

 

 

Gardening Supervisor

 

  

Gardener/Mali/Unskilled worker

TOTAL (1 TO 2) Rs.

ESI @ ---of amount on( sl. no.3)

@® --- of amount on( sl. no.3

@. ----- of Total Amt on (sl. no.3)

OTHER CHARGES (Consumable, Cleaning materials, Gardening Tools etc.
Q se (@ 3.85 % of Total Amt on sl. no.3

 

 

 

    

  
  
  
  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

       

| B) TABLE-2: Grass/Jungle Cutting/Cleaning _
SI.No. Description

 

 
 

 

     

    
 
    
       
     
     
    
  

 

Unit Qty. rt Rate | Amount
is) | (Rs) |

     

Clearing jungle including uprooting of rank | Sqm. 473.10/week
vegetation, grass, brush wood, trees and saplings (approx)
of growth up to 30 cm measured at a height of |
meter above ground level and removal of rubbish
up to a distance of 50 meter outside the periphery
of the area cleared as per direction of concerned
NITA Official
Cleaning grass and removal of rubbish up to a
distance of 50 m outside the periphery of the area
cleared as per direction of concerned NITA
Official.
Pesticide, Fertilizer, Manure, Chemicals ete. for
ardening and horticulture (Monthly Charges
Total of Table-2 (i+ii+iii)

 

     
        
    

Pia ps

 

 

     
     
 
     
 

Sqm. | 577.00/week
(approx)

  
 
 
  
 

   
 

     
     
   
   

 

As per

requirement +- ates

If any bidder is not quoting any price for Table-1 & 2, the Financial Bid will be rejected.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
       
 
 
 

B) GRAND TOTAL:
Grand Total Table (1+2) in figure:
Grand Total Table (1+2) in words:

(Signature of Authorized Person of the Agency) with Date
Name and Designation:

   

Seal and signature of the bidder - Page 42 of 42 - Registrar, NIT Agartala

2”
