
--- Page 1 ---
 

mY E NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Fax : 0381 254-6360, Website : http// www.nita.ac.in

 

Date: 7 / 72/2024

E-Tender Notice

 

On behalf of National Institute of Technology Agartala, bids are invited in sealed cover from the
reputed resourceful Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/ Authorized Suppliers for supply of item(s)/goods
as per specification mentioned in Annexure of tender document available at our website www.nita.ac.in.

 

  
   
 
 
  
  

   

 
  
   
 

Time and date of
opening of
Technical bid

Estimated
cost
(Rs.)

   
  
  

Last date of
receipt of tender

   
  
 
 
 
     
  

u01}92g /
yuoun1edaq

 
 
     

    
    
 

 
   
         

 
   
  

 
  
  
  

 

Laboratory and
Chemical eis ee itieoo Scientific | ¢ 55 440,99 | 03/ 04/2025 | O4/ 04/2025
Engineering Control-l Equipment eS L Up to:3:00 PM At 3:00 PM

 
   
  

 

 

The interested Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/ Authorized Suppliers may arrange online
submission of the tender through www.eprocure.gov.in along with scan copy of essential documents mentioned in
the tender document.

Tender(s) is/are to be submitted only online through central public procurement portal Le.
“http://eprocure.gov.in”. All the documents are to be scanned and uploaded along with the tender documents.

Tender sent by any other mode will not be accepted.

 

 

 

 

Registrar
L ee
| yea
Registrar
NIT Agartala
Copy to:
1G The P.S. to the Director for kind information.

2. The Nodal Officer, e-Procurement, NITA with a request to kindly arrange uploading the
Tender Documents in the CPP portal https://eprocure.gov.in/eppp.

5. Mr. Kamal Kanti Paul, System Administrator, Computing & ICT Unit with a request to uploading
the Tender documents in the Institute website site.

4. The Deputy Registrar (F & A). a

Registrar

NIT Agartala


--- Page 2 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

So rs
No.F.NITA.38(245-ChE)/2024/Process Control-I/4 2S- S} Date: 04/ 42/2024

E- Tender Enquiry

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

Name of the Institute : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TE CHNOLOGY
AGARTALA

GST Number of the Institute : 16AAAGNO0550K1ZG

PAN of the Institute : AAAGNOS550K

TAN of the Institute : SHLNOO719F

DSIR No. : TU/V/RG-CDE(1053)/2022 dated 18/12/2022

Institute Bank A/C No. : 030936141729 (IFSC: SBINOO1 1491) under SBI, NIT
Agartala Branch.

Name of Department / Branch : Chemical Engineering Department

Enquiry / Reference Number : No.F.NITA.38(245-ChE)/2024/Process Control-I/

Some important/Critical dates:

Uploading on CPP Portal and | Date: AQ / 12/2024 Time: 5:00 PM
Department’s web-site

Bid submission start date Date: 49 / 419-/2024 Time: 5:00 PM

Bid submission end date Date: O3/ oL /2026 Time: 3:00 PM

Opening of technical bid Date: 0o4/ oL /202€ Time: 3:00 PM

 
  
  
  

 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 3 ---
 

TS WENT FIM ST

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

Details of e-tender document.

 

Encl :

(1)
(2)

NIT, Agartala intends to purchase the commodities/serrie(s)
specified in Annexure enclosed and invites quotations in accordance with the
terms and conditions detailed in the bid document. If you are interested,
kindly submit your offer with prices within the time mentioned above fulfilling

all the terms and conditions marked in the bid documents.

(Aad —

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

Schedule of requirement, specifications, dates etc.
Bid document containing detail terms and conditions.


--- Page 4 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

Temperature Control Trainer
Flow Control Trainer
First Order and second order system

Interacting and non-interacting system
Computer Compatible with instruments along with Software.

 

(Details as per SI No.1 to 5 at Annexure-1).

Specifications and allied Technical Details
Temperature Control Trainer
Flow Control Trainer
First Order and second order system
Interacting and non-interacting system
Computer Compatible with instruments along with Software.

Details as per SI No.1 to 5 at Annexure-1).

   
   
     
   
  

Se Se

  

   

1. Estimated Cost
6,55,440.00

 

 

Z. Quotations should be valid for a period of 180 days from the opening date of the technical bid.

3. Bid Security or EMD: 2% of the estimated cost of the tender or Bidders should submit “Bid
Security Declaration Form” on company letter head as per annexure-D of this tender
document.

4. Performance Security: The amount of the Performance Security shall be 5%(five percent) (not
applicable for consumable item(s)) of the Purchase Order / Contract value, valid up to 60 days
after the date of completion of contract obligations including warranty obligations.

5. Delivery Option: 60 (sixty) days after receipt of the purchase/work order(s).

6. Please go through the enclosed “bid document” carefully for other bidding instructions.

Ti For any technical details, you may contact through email-id: nitapurchasesection2@qmail.com.

“4p —

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

Yours iS)

3|Page


--- Page 5 ---
~

 

TST Weel GAT SETA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.38(245-ChE)/2024/Process Control-I/ Date: / /2024

1.

BID DOCUMENT

 

Instructions to the bidders:

1.1

La

1.3
1.4

5

1.6

17

1.8

19

1.10

Bids are invited through e-tender on behalf of the National Institute of
Technology Agartala, Tripura, Agartala-799046 from the intending bidders for
supply of the goods/stores/ equipments/Learning resources for the Institute as
detailed in the enquiry letter.

The bidders should quote their rates in clear terms without ambiguity. The
quotation should be only in Indian Rupees.

The last date & time for submission of the bid is marked in the enquiry.

The bids should be submitted online through www.eprocure.gov.in before the
last date & time of submission specified in tender document.

Bids received after the deadline of receipt indicated in para 1.4 above, shall not
be taken into consideration.

Each bidder shall submit only one bid against one enquiry. A bidder, who
submits more than one bid against single enquiry, shall be disqualified and
considered non-responsive.

The bidder has to enclose a check list at per Annexure - C duly filled in along
with all relevant/supporting documents while submitting technical bid through
www.eprocure.gov.in.

Opening of Bids by the Purchaser will be done as per the provisions of the e-
procurement system.

At any time prior to the due date for submission of bids, the Purchaser may, for
any reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification
requested by a prospective bidder, modify the bidding documents by
amendment.

All prospective bidders are expected to surf the website before formulating and
submitting their bids to take cognizance of the amendments.

Custom Duty Exemption Certificate will be provided from the Institute for
availing Custom Duty Exemption in trams of notification No. 51/96-Custom
dated 23-07-1996, amended by notification No. 43/2017 dated 30-06-2017,
further amended by notification No. 42/2022 dated 13-07-2022, as amended
from time to time in case of imported items per OM No. F.4/1/2021-PPD dated
01-09-2021.

“mR sincerely,

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 6 ---
 

TSE Werth Ga SET

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

ES eae eR ees GmmapEETAdee CREST EST TC
No.F.NITA.38(245-ChE)/2024/Process Control-I/ Date: / /2024

ne General Terms & Conditions:

bid

Lk

23

2.4

2.5

2.6

a7

2.8

5|Page
bo Gh Sin AW

The rates quoted by the Supplier/Bidders should preferably be on
basic price, Annual Maintenance Charges(if applicable), packing,
forwarding, freight, Insurance and all other incidental charges
including delivery of the Materials at National Institute of Technology,
Agartala.

All taxes and duties will be paid extra and such amounts of
mandatory/statutory taxes & duties shall be explicitly mentioned in
BOQ while submitting of bid. If GST amount not quoted in the BOQ
(price bid), the total cost will be treated as inclusive of GST.

Price has to be ffilled through CPP portal as per BOQ
(https://www.eprocure.gov.in). The scanned copy of Price Bid, dully filled in,
has to be uploaded on the above e-procurement site. The prices filled in the e-
procurement site will be treated final and shall be binding to the vendor.

Insurance: The Goods supplied under the Contract shall be fully insured against
any loss or damage incidental to manufacture or acquisition, transportation,
storage and delivery up to the final destination.

All the Machines/Equipments/goods will be covered by Annual Maintenance
Contract (AMC) / CMC/ Warranty beyond the normal warranty/guarantee period.
Interested bidders are requested to quote price against AMC/Extended warranty
as an optional item in the price bid. Optional items will not be taken into
consideration while selecting L; bidder.

AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty will be awarded after completion of standard
warranty period. AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty may be carried out only after
receipt of confirmation letter from this Institute. The Institute will not be
responsible for any due payments / obligations may arise as a result of
execution of AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty without confirmation letter from this
Institute.

Conditional discount, if any, offered by the bidder shall not be considered at the
time of evaluation.

The bidders who are registered as a Micro or Small Enterprise as per
latest definitions under MSME rules, Govt. of India for exemption of
submitting EMD/Bid security must enclose relevant documentary
proof of authentication of their firm’s registered as a Micro or Small
Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME rules, Govt. of India.

Bb


--- Page 7 ---
 

2.10

2.11

2.12

6|Page

TST Wal Tehl GUM SEAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME
rules, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover"
criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the offered products, it
would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria. In case any
bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover /Experience Criteria, the supporting
documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded with technical
bid.

If the bidder is a Startup, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of
"Bidder Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the
offered products, it would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover"
criteria. In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover / Experience
Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be
uploaded with technical bid.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala is following and abide with the Public
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017, DIPP, MoCI Order No.
P-45021/2/2017-B.E.II dated 15th June 2017 and subsequent amendments to
the order. Accordingly preference will be given to the Make in India products
while evaluating the bids, however, it is the sole responsibility of the bidder(s)
to specify the product quoted by them is of Make in India product along with
respective documentary evidence as stipulated in the aforesaid order in the
technical bid itself. A self-declaration as per Annexure- G should be enclosed in
the technical bid.

On site Comprehensive Warranty:

e The successful bidder shall provide a Comprehensive Warranty for minimum
period of 1 year (not applicable for consumable item(s)) after the installation
and commissioning of the instrument / software/items. If within a warranty
period after installation any such product or component is proven to be
defective such product shall be repaired or replaced by the supplier/vendor.
Such repair and replacement shall be sole obligation of supplier/vendor.
Supplier / vendor shall be responsible for payment for all charges (to-and-fro)
for repair/ replacement. Any design defects or installations deficiencies or
any outer defects, if noticed during the warranty/ maintenance period, shall
be rectified promptly by the successful bidder with no cost at all the places,
which also includes the field installations.

e Down-time call attendance should be within 48 hrs.

e In case the Equipment / System remains non-operational for more than 5
days then warranty period will be extended for the equal period for which
Equipment / System remained non-operational. Warranty extension in such
case shall be done without prejudice to any other Term & condition of the

contract.
be


--- Page 8 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

2.13 The documentary evidence of the bidders qualification to perform the contract if
the bid is accepted shall establish to the purchasers satisfaction that:

   
 

     

The bidder meets the qualification criteria listed in bidding
(b) | Bidder who doesn’t manufacture the goods it offers to supply shall submit
Manufacturers’ Authorization Form using the form specified in the bidding
document to demonstrate that it has been duly authorized by the
manufacturer of the goods to quote and / or supply the goods/services.

 
         
          

2.14 The successful bidder has to furnish “Performance Guarantee/Security” (not
applicable for consumable item(s)) for an amount specified in the enquiry by E-
Payment System to NITA Account within 15(fifteen) days of intimation of
contract/supply order.

Alternatively, “Performance Guarantee/Security” will be retained by the Institute
from the billed amount of the contract/supply order which will be released two
months after the completion of warranty period (not applicable for consumable
item(s)).

2.15 Delivery Schedule: As per e-Tender.

The item(s)/goods are required to be delivered at the indenting Department of
National Institute of Technology, Agartala, and must be dispatched within
specified days from the date of placement of the supply/purchase/work order.

If the supplier fails to Supply, Install and Commission the system/instrument as
per specifications mentioned in the order within the due date, the Supplier is
liable to pay liquidated damages of 0.5% of order value per week or part
thereof of delay subject to a maximum of 10%, as the case may be, beyond the
due date. Such money will be deducted from any amount due or which may
become due to the supplier. Any exemption towards delay without LD can be
resolved through mutual consent under exceptional circumstances.

2.16 Force Majeure: Notwithstanding the provisions of clauses relating to Extension
of Time, Penalty and Termination for Default the Supplier shall not be liable for
forfeiture of its Performance Security, Liquidated Damages or Termination for
Default, if and to the extent that, its delay in performance or other failure to
perform its obligations under the Contract is the result of an event of Force
Majeure.

2.17 Evaluation of Bid: The Technical Bid shall be evaluated on the basis of technical
and other parameters usually taken in to consideration. Financial bid shall be
evaluated on the basis of financial parameters. Govt. of India rules shall be
taken in to account for evaluating both technical and financial bids.

2.18 The successful bidder(s) may be required to execute a contract on the basis of
evaluation as per annexure(s) (as applicable). Ia

7|Page


--- Page 9 ---
 

TSS Wealriht Fea SPAM

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

2.19

2.21

2.82

2.23

2.24

2.25

2.26

8|Page

NIT Agartala will reject a proposal for award if it determines that the Bidder
recommended for award has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt,
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices in competing for the Contract in
question.

The bidder has to submit valid trade license, GST registration certificate, Last
filled ITR and last filed GST return.

Payment: 100% will be made in INR (Indian National Rupees) after
successful Installation, Commissioning of item against submission
of Performance Guaranty (PG) otherwise an equal amount of PG
will be retained by the Institute till the completion of warranty
obligations.

Note: All payments due under the contract shall be paid after deduction of
statutory levies at source (like ESIC, IT (TDS), GST, LBT / Octroi etc.), wherever
applicable.

In the event of any dispute arising out of the bid or from the resultant contract,
the decision of the Competent Authority, National Institute of Technology,
Agartala shall be final.

The bid document/resultant contract will be interpreted under Indian Laws.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala will not take any responsibility for
arranging road permit/way bill or clearance from tax department for delivery of
goods. All such requirements should be completed by the bidder for delivery of
goods at National Institute of Technology, Agartala. GST payment, if required,
should be paid by successful bidder and if GST not paid, National Institute of
Technology, Agartala will deduct the applicable amount from successful bidder's
bills and pay the same to Tax Authority. If there is any mandatory tax(es) other
than GST/other taxes mentioned in this tender document, imposed by State
Govt., the same may also be deducted from the bills of the successful bidder, as
applicable.

Competent Authority of National Institute of Technology, Agartala
reserves the right to cancel the entire e-tendering process at any
stage of the procurement process without mentioning any reason.

Legal disputes, if any with NIT Agartala will be restricted within the
jurisdiction of Agartala only.

Yours sincerely,

N 4g —

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 10 ---
 

TSG Wella AT STAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

i te CU
No.F.NITA.38(245-ChE)/2024/Process Control-I/ Date: / /2024

3. Special Terms & Conditions:

3.1

a

3.3

34

so

3.6

anf

3.8

39

3.11

9|Page

Acceptance of Technical bid strictly depends on National Institute of Technology,
Agartala’s requirements credentials, manufacturing capability, quality control
systems, past performance, after-sales service, financial background,
commercial terms & conditions etc. of the supplier(s).

Detailed Specifications, brand, make, model & parts number, tolerance limit,
resolution, corresponding ISO standard etc. of quoted Equipments/Items should
be mentioned with supported leaflet/catalogue/brochure and list of buyers for
acceptance of technical bid.

The technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted through
www.eprocure.gov.in. The technical bids shall be opened and evaluated by the
competent committee/authority. At the second stage, financial bids of only the
technically qualified bidders shall be opened for further evaluation and
recommendations for awarding the purchase order/contract.

It may specifically be mentioned whether quotation is strictly as per terms and
conditions of the tender. Deviation, if any, must be spelt out specifically in
technical bid. In the absence of this, the quotation may be rejected.

Installation & Commissioning: Within 15 (fifteen) days after delivery (if
applicable).

The Quantity of each Item(s)/Equipment(s) may increase (as per Govt. Norms)
or decrease at the time of issued of Purchase / Supply / Work Order. The
Institute reserves right to purchase partly or not to purchase any item / cancel
the entire process at any stage of procurement process.

Penalty: Penalty will be charged @ 0.5 % of per week or part thereof except for
force majeure conditions for the unexecuted part of the supply/work order.

Arbitration: All disputes should be attempted to be resolve mutually between the
National Institute of Technology, Agartala and the suppliers failing which
jurisdiction of any Court of Agartala shall be applicable.

The successful bidder has to give at least 3-4 days on site training for each &
every items/equipments by Certified Person (if required).

Model No. of the product should be given with catalogue (if any).
Items/Goods should be sent through Registered Transporter (preferably).
Bidders are required to upload a declaration on letter head stating that the

bidder has not been black-listed & holiday listed by any
Ministry/Department/Organization.


--- Page 11 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

10|Pa

3.13

3.15

3.16

oe

¢

Bidder(s) is/are required to upload a self-certificate as per
applicability (Annexure- E or F) regarding offered item(s) as per Office
Memorandum No. 6/18/2019-PPD dated 23-07-2022 & 24-07-2020
and Office Memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8 February,
2021 issued by Department of Expenditure, Procurement Policy
Division, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India.

Bidders are requested to provide valid e-mail ID and phone number for further
communication.

Bank A/C in the Exact Name of Bidder/Firm/Supplier with Name, A/C No., IFSC
code must be furnished with technical bid.

Bidder has to submit annual turnover not less than 3.30 lakh per year with
technical bid for last 3 (three) years. Bidder also has to submit OEM turnover
not less than 26 lakhs per year for last 3(three) years (if bidder is not OEM).

If bidder itself OEM, has to be submit turnover not less than 26 lakhs per year
for last 3 (three) years with technical bid.

Yours sincerely,
Registrar

National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 12 ---
=

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA
Department of Chemical Engineering
Barjala, Jirania, Tripura (W)-'799046

  
   
      
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
     
     
   
     
    
  

Name of the Item

  

Temperature control trainer

Flow control trainer

First order and second order
system

Interacting and non-interacting
system

  
  

      

Annexure-1

Specification
(Should have Following Specification or more)

e Temperature control trainer is designed for understanding
the basic temperature control principles.

e ‘The process setup consists of a heating tank fitted with
an SSR controlled heater for on-line heating of the water.
The flow of water can be manipulated and measured by.
rotameter. Temperature sensor (RTD) is used for
temperature sensing.

e The process parameter (Temperature) is controlled by a
microprocessor based digital indicating controller which
manipulates heat input to the process. These units along
with necessary piping and fitting are mounted on a
support frame designed for tabletop mounting. The
controller can be connected to the computer through

ethernet port for monitoring the process in SCADA mode.

  

e Flow control trainer is designed for understanding the
basic principles of flow control. The process setup
consists of a supply water tank fitted with a pump for
water circulation.

e A Flow transmitter is used for flow sensing which

measures flow of water. The process parameter (flow) is

controlled by a microprocessor based digital indicating
controller which manipulates speed of the pump.

These units along with necessary piping are fitted on

support housing designed for tabletop mounting. The

controller can be connected to the computer through an
ethernet port for monitoring the process in SCADA mode.

e PC with SCADA.

e ‘The set up is designed to study the transient response of
first-order and second-order systems.

e First-order system:

1) Step response of thermometer

2) Step response of thermo well

3) Sinusoidal response of thermo well Second-order system:
1) Step respense of mercury manometer

2) Step response of manometer

e Setup consists of ‘U’ tube manometer, heating bath,
thermometer, thermo well, beeper for recording
observations and timer for heater on-off operation.

* ‘The components are mounted on base plate. The set up is
tabletop mountable.

The sct-up is designed to study dynamic response of
single and multi-capacity processes when connected in
interacting and non-interacting mode. It is combined to
study

1) Singie capacity process,

2) Non-interacting process and

3) Interacting process.

e The observed step response of the tank level in different
mode can be compared with mathematically predicted
response. Setup consists of a supply tank, pump for water
circulation, rotameter for flow measurement, Stainless
steel tanks with Piezo metric tube and graduated scales,
which can be connected, in interacting and non-
interacting mode.

 

 


--- Page 13 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA
Department of Chemical Engineering
Barjala, Jirania, Tripura (W)-7 99046

 
 
   
 
  
 

 
 
  
    
 

Specification oe
Should have Following S pecification or more

Technical Specification:

CPU: Intel 12th Generation i5 or better

RAM: 8 GB DDR4, 3200 MHz or better

Hard Disk: 256 GB NVMe SSD or better

Monitor: 20-inch LCD display or better

Operating System: Windows 10 or better

Keyboard & Mouse: Wired

With UPS: 750W or better

Lab VIEW Software Exe of the programs of

SCADA.

Warranty and other requirements:

Warranty of Machine : 1 year or more

 
  

Computer Compatible with
instruments along with Software

      

SS St ee

  
    
     


--- Page 14 ---
WS WEP FIM BPA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

“"_No.F.NITA.38(245-ChE)/2024/Process Control-I/ Date: / /2024
ANNEXURE — B

PRICE BID

As per BOQ

12|Page


--- Page 15 ---
UST Wel GAM SEAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

a
No.F.NITA.38(245-ChE)/2024/Process Control-I/ Date: / /2024
ANNEXURE - C

Documents for Comprising the Bid

TENDER REQUIREMENT COMPLIANCE | Document

Submitted

Name of the Firm / Agency / Dealer / Supplier with full Yes/No Yes / NA
address including contact number and email id etc

Trade License issued by Government / Statutory Body or
Company Registration on the item(s) related to this tender. | Yes/No reer

GST Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder. Yes / No

PAN Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder Yes/No | Yes/NA

Financial Solvency issued by Bank(as per RBI guidelines) vil ii .
(in case of estimated cost is Rs.25.00 lakhs and above). oe / Me are

Up to date GST return / any other tax clearance certificate.
(last filed GST return, GSTR 9 and 9B) a 7 ee

Up to date Income Tax Return (Last filled ITR) Yes / No
Certification of holiday and non-black listing (Self Yes / No
dated 8 February 2021, Dept. of Expenditure, Ministry of
Manufacturers Authorization Form (MAF) (if applicable) Yes / No
/Private sector (if applicable) (May be relaxed for MSME,

147 Any other criteria related to this tender. Yes / No
Tender Document.

 

    

   

 

  

   

10
11

     
     

Nd

   

13
14
5

1

     
     
      

bh
©

o

Yes / No

 
 

“Bid Security Declaration form” on Company Letter Head Yes / No Yes / NA
Scanned copy to be uploaded along with Technical bid).

Service Support details (if applicable) Yes / No
Certification
Certification as per memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD

Yes / No Yes / NA
Finance, Govt. of India (Self Certification
Proprietary Certificate from OEM to be uploaded along Yes /N Yes / NA
with the Technical Bid in case of Proprietary items ~~ oe
Certificate under MSME, NSIC, Make-in-India & Startup as

4 Y N Y NA

per Govt. of India Norms (if applicable). +e
Experience, if any, with govt. sector /Public Undertaking

Yes / No Yes / NA
NSIC & Startup as per Govt. of India Norm
Supplier/Firm/Bidder should accept all Terms &
Conditions and specification of the items given in the

(Signature of the bidder)

  

13|Page


--- Page 16 ---
TUSSI Wer! FA SERA

National Institute of Technology Agartala

   

{ a)

I, AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)
No.F.NITA.38(245-ChE)/2024/Process Control-I/ Date: / /2024

Annexure-D

Bid Securing Declaration Form

LOIS eh cesta ssa ce eiades Tender Ref. No: ............ccseseseceeee Wender [Desh ietecae cs

To (insert complete name and address of the purchaser)
I/We. The undersigned, declare that:

I/We understand that, according to your conditions, bids must be supported by a Bid Securing
Declaration.

I/We accept that I/We may be disqualified from bidding for any contract with you for a period of one
year from the date of notification if I am /We are in a breach of any obligation under the bid conditions,
because I/We

a) have withdrawn/modified/amended, impairs or derogates from the tender, my/our Bid during the
period of bid validity specified in the form of Bid; or

b) having been notified of the acceptance of our Bid by the purchaser during the period of bid validity
(i) fail or reuse to execute the contract, if required, or (ii) fail or refuse to furnish the Performance
Security, in accordance with the Instructions to Bidders.

I/We understand this Bid Securing Declaration shall cease to be valid if I am/we are not the successful
Bidder, upon the earlier of (i) the receipt of your notification of the name of the successful Bidder; or
(ii) thirty days after the expiration of the validity of my/our Bid.

Signed: (insert signature of person whose name and capacity are shown)

in the capacity of (insert legal capacity of person signing the Bid Securing Declaration)
Name: (insert complete name of person signing he Bid Securing Declaration)

Duly authorized to sign the bid for an on behalf of (insert complete name of Bidder)

Dated on day of (insert date of signing)

Corporate Seal (where appropriate)

(Note: In case of a Joint Venture, the Bid Securing Declaration must be in the name of all partners to
the Joint Venture that submits the bid)

14|Page


--- Page 17 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

ee ——————————————KS
No.F.NITA.38(245-ChE)/2024/Process Control-I/ Date: / /2024

Annexure-E

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(as applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated
23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021
regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules (GFRs), 2017.

ee ee
a ee

I TO ales op onan pap ins secs dev xn coun shee naaca'sale (name of the bidder company) have
read the clauses pertaining to the Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public
Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref. F.No.6/18/2019-
PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder
of a country that shares a land border with India.

We hereby certify that we are not from such a country and eligible to be considered for
this tender.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment, (if any),
by any bidder(s) shall lead to commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-Agartala)

For ated GEURT OF 55 soins svn cv nus sens (Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

re

15|Pa

fo


--- Page 18 ---
TS Wahl HIM STAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

ee
No.F.NITA.38(245-ChE)/2024/Process Control-I/ Date: / /2024

Annexure-F

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(as applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated
23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021
regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules (GFRs), 2017.

ei ES ee
ei ig

RE pags awd cased vs wane (name of the bidder company) have
read the clauses pertaining to the Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public
Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref. F.No.6/18/2019-
PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder
of a country that shares a land border with India.

We are from such a country which shares a land border with India & have been
registered with the Competent Authority as specified in the above-said order. We hereby
certify that we fulfill all requirements in this regard and are eligible to be considered.

Evidence of valid registration by the Competent Authority is attached.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment, (if any),
by any bidder(s) shall lead to commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-Agartala)

Ue Oi I BE ss oak i iiss ae vi pep wn eres (Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

16|Page

¢


--- Page 19 ---
TS WET CIM ST

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

Baten neesipncienieuaiepeeaig rmnngpeennenneninheemnsiepaasenaetiinnemnpiataiaitatel
No.F.NITA.38(245-ChE)/2024/Process Control-I/ Date. / /2024
Annexure -G

Self-Certification on the letterhead of the compan

 

In line with Government Public Procurement Order No. P-45021/2/2017-BE-II dt.
15.06.2017, P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 28.05.2018, P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II)
dated 29.05.2019 and P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 16.09.2020,

We hereby certify that 2... ccc. cccscccsescensoreranetarschscesanes nace (Supplier name) are
local supplier meeting requirement of minimum local content...............:..:.+6++ %
defined in as above orders for the material against Enquiry / Tender No
Co eked Cece tases eePOP RON snes n be ths Oo vasncew cer ane GBIS 0g Fi nccentnrie tascam

COO o eee eee EHO SEER SOHO OSESESEHH OHHH HHS EHEEEHEHHE HHH SHH HHS ESHEETS HEH SEES ESS ESE HEHEHESES EOE HOES
Cee e eee Sree eee eee eee HSE HEE EEE EEEE SEES HEHEHE SESEEETEH ELH HHH ES ESE S HOHE H HEHEHE OHS O HEELS EH ESELE HE ESES ESE EHO OEE
eee meee eee eee eee ee HEH STEHT EEE EEE HEHEHE ESE EEE HSE SESE EEE HEHEHE HEHEHE HEHEHE HEHEHE HEHEHE HHH HEHEHE HES HEH HEHE

Cee e eee eee eeeeeseseeeesesesseeeeeeseeseeEEEESEeoEEHEEE

We also understand false declarations will be in breach of the Code of Integrity under
Rule 175(1)(i)(h) of the General Financial Rules for which a bidder or its successors can
be debarred for up to two years as per Rule 151 (iii) of the General Financial Rules along
with such other actions as may be permitted under law.

Date: Signature:

Place: Name and Designation:
Mobile no:
Office Telephone No:

Email ID: Office Seal

17|Page


--- Page 20 ---
TST Walia AT STAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.38(245-ChE)/2024/Process Control-I/ Date: / /2024

Annexure -H

NON BLACKLISTING SELF CERTIFICATE

NUN DLAUSDILNY 1S ee

[To be submitted on letterhead]

I/We hereby certify that the [Name of the company
/ firm] has not been ever blacklisted/debarred by any Central / State Government / Public
Undertaking / University / Institute on any account.

I/We also certify that firm will provide material as per the specification given by NIT
Agartala and also abide all the terms and conditions stipulated in the bid document.

I/We also certify that the information given in bid is true and correct in all aspects and in
any case at a later date it is found that any details provided are false and incorrect,
contract given to the concerned firm or participation may be summarily terminated at
any stage, the firm will be blacklisted and NIT Agartala may impose any action as per
the rules.

Date : Name:
Place :

Business Address:

Signature of Service Provider:

Seal of the Service Provider:
