
--- Page 1 ---
Page 1 of 51

 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,
AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, P.O- NIT Agartala, West Tripura, Pin: - 799046,
Url :- www.nita.ac.in

DNleT No.: 137/NITA/Estate Elect. /2022-23

Name of Work:

“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for
14 (Fourteen) numbers of Johnson make lifts
installed at NIT Agartala campus.”

Certified that this DNleT contains 51 (Fifty One) pages numbered from 1 to 51

Dro Op Wo Bry
/ q 2 Xr 0”) 2?
0 : 7 Z y CV Och 1D. ee ee QU Qary sb

J.E (Elect.)  A.E (Elect.) Estate Engineer Aber Dean (PED) Elect.(3e3

Draft Notice Inviting e-Tender containing 51 (Fifty One) pages is hereby APPROVED

—_,
x
a

/ Dean(PED)
4

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 2 ---
 

Page 2 of 51

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INDEX
—
SL. Contents Page No.
No. = =)
A Notice Inviting e-Tender 3
ee S|
B ena of Important Events / Activities L 4
C Guidelines for e-Tendering 6
| D Other information and terms & conditions 8
Pena ee het
E Bidder Qualification Criteria 13
=
F _ [tit of Documents to be scanned and uploaded a 14 ]
————
| G Safety Codes 14
—$—
| H  iFire Safety 14
A Sa]
| Fors of Performance Security (Guarantee) 15
—
J Integrity Pact | 17
= —
K _|Agreement 25
ae is +
L General Condition of Contract 28
M ees of Work and Terms & Conditions of Contract 29 sf
foray
N Formats for Different Forms/Certificates 36
t 134 = —
0 Financial Bid 51

 

 

 

%

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 3 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura, India, Pin-- 799046
PRESS NOTICE INVITING e-TENDER

File No. F.NITA-23(288E)/Estate Elect/2023/7482-87 Date:- 17/01/2024
Press Notice Inviting E-Tender (PNIe-T)

On behalf of NIT Agartala, the Registrar NIT Agartala invite Percentage rate e-tender from the eligible registered bidder for 03
(Three) nos. different types of Electrical work upto 05:00 PM on 12/02/2024. For details. please visit http//www.nita.ac.in &
https://eprocure.goy.in. Date of opening of bid on 14/02/2024 at 11:00 AM.

Any subsequent corrigendum will be available in the website only.
Registrar, NIT Agartala

Sealed percentage rate tenders are invited for and on behalf of NIT Agartala from Central & State Public Sector Undertaking /
Enterprise and eligible Contractors / Firms / Agencies of appropriate class registered with state PWDs / CPWD/ MES Railway / P & T or
others registered firms as per following tables.

    
 
  

 
 
  
    

  
   
   

    
  
 

  
 
  

 

  
 

  
 
 

       

 

 

r . Last Date of ;
a Name of Work Se . sca Tender Dac. Submission of Due: 2 may af
; = (Rs. bid/offers. PESeY.
Comprehensive Annual 4
: : Initially for a
Maintenance Contract for 14 ;
5 od of 3 12/02/2024 14/02/2024
|. | (Fourteen) numbers of | Rs. 93,000/- | Per Rs. 1,500/-
Johnson make Lifts installed eee (Uptes.00PM) (at 11.00AM)
at NIT Agartala campus.

 

 

 

 

 

Eligible bidders shall participate in bidding only in online through website https://eprocure.gov.in.Bidders are allowed to bid 24x7
until the time of Bid closing, with option for Re-Submission, wherein only their latest submitted Bid would be considered for evaluation. The
e-Procurement website will not allow any Bidder to attempt bidding, after the scheduled date and time. Submission of bids physically is not
permitted.

Earnest Money(Refundable) and Bid Fee/tender cost(Non-Refundable) are to be paid /transferred separately to the Institute Account
No.30936141729, IFSC CODE:SBINO011491, MICR No:799002525, State Bank of India, NIT Agartala Branch, through Electronic
Transfer/Online transfer system.

Bid(s) shall be opened through online by respective Bid openers on behalf of the NIT Agartala and the same shall be accessible by
intending Bidder through website https://eprocure.goy.in. However, intending bidders and other Bidders may like to be present at the Bid
opening.

For any enquiry, please contact by e-mail to estat

Any subsequent corrigendum will be available in the website only.

Details are available in the Institute’s website: http//www.nita,aciin & https://eprocure.goy.in

 
 

( \ Fe |
QM yy Be

J
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 4 ---
Page 4 of 51

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura, India, Pin-- 799046

NOTICE INVITING eTENDER

Ref: eTender Notice No. F.NITA-23(272E)Estate Elect./2022

NIT Agartala invites online item rate tender through e-procurement portal for
the under mentioned work at NIT Agartala from the eligible bidders as per the
eligibility criteria mentioned in the tender document. The details are given
below:

 

 

 

“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract
for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of Johnson make
Lifts installed at NIT Agartala campus.”

Rs. 93,000/- (Rupees Ninety Three Thousand
Only) by e-payment through electronic mode.

A.1.2. |Name of Work

A.1.3 |Earnest Money Deposit
[(Rs.)

Tender Processing Fee a Rs. 1,500/- by e-payment through electronic
(Rs.) mode (Non-Refundable)

 

 

|

| ani i it wi

: tially for a period of 3 (T hree) Years and it will!
A-1.9' Contract period be extended to 4" & 5 vear based on the
satisfactory performance and subject to approval of
| the authority.

1, ars
Mode of submission of
A.1.6 Tenier | On-Line mode only

SEV

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

1

 

 

 

 


--- Page 5 ---
© A.2

Page 5 of 51

Key Events and Dates

 

  

1

Publishing Date

   
      
          
 
   

 

Period of seeking clarification Upto 05:00 PMon O4 / 02 /2023

11:00 AM on 22 /02/202 at Office
of the Dean P&D, Administrative
Block-1, 2" Floor, NIT Agartala.
Those who are interested can attend.

Pre-Bid Meeting

   

Last date and time of closing of
uploading/online submission of tender

  
   
 
   

Upto 02°00 PM on 12/027 /2023,

 

 

 

 

 

A.2.4 | including scanned copy of EMD and
tender Processing Fee details/receipts
and other documents as specified
: . | M
Date & Time of online opening of {1:00 A oo
A.2.5' | - ehnical bid 03:30-PM on [4 /_0 2/2024
A.2:6 || Cote ane Vine St opening orrimncial ” “itad ie ieiitad ae arnter date |

| bid of qualified bidders

 

 

A.3 Other Important Information Related to Bid
A3.1 Performance | 5% of tendered value on acceptance of bid.
2 Guarantee
Bidders will have to deposit the Tender Processing Fee and
EMD through On-Line mode only. Details for the same are as
below:
Name of beneficiary NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Mode of AGARTALA
payment of | Address : Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura-799046
A.3.2 Tender Account No. : No. 30936141729,
Processing f
MICR No:799002525
Fee and EMD
Name of the Bank —:State Bank of India
Address of the bank =: NIT Agartala

 

IFSC Code : SBINO011491

Bidders will have to upload scanned copy of Payment details
towards cost of tender processing fee & EMD during the
submission of tender and the same will be accepted only on
verification & confirmation by the Institute. Any delay in credit
will not be entertained by the Institute.

 

 

 

 

ae ;
Poe hal
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

A33 [Bid Validity

 

 

180 Days from the date of opening of Technical Bid


--- Page 6 ---
Page 6 of 51 .

 

Guidelines for e-Tendering

B.1 It is mandatory for all the applicants to have class II or III digital signature ©
certification from licensed certifying agency like NIC, MTNL, e-mudra, TCS, |
safescrypt, GNFC etc.

B.2 Detailed NIT can be viewed free of cost on NIT Agartala website under the
URL_http://www.nita.ac.in/tenders/ . Schedule of quantities (Financial bid form) can
be downloaded only from https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. Uploading of
tender will be possible only after making payment of Tender Processing Fee and
EMD.

B.3 The tender shall be submitted online in the prescribed format before the
date and time as mentioned in NIT. No other mode of submission is acceptable.

B.4 The applicant have to upload the details of e-payment of processing fee &
EMD before the last date & time and download the tender documents form the e-

tendering portal https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.

B.5 Tenderer are advised to upload their documents well in time to avoid last
minute rush on the server or complication in uploading. NIT Agartala will not be
responsible for any type of problem in uploading the documents. No hard copies for
tender submission shall be entertained.

B.6 Online bid documents submitted by intending bidders shall be opened only
of those bidders, who has deposited e-Tender Processing Fee and Earnest Money
Deposit and other documents scanned and uploaded are found in order.

B.7 Information and Instructions for bidders posted on website shall form part
of bid document.

B.8 The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of
quantities of various types of items to be executed and the set of terms and
conditions of the contract to be complied with and other necessary documents can

be seen and downloaded from website https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app free

of cost.
B.9 Bids from Joint Ventures are not acceptable.
B.10 On opening date, the contractor can login and see the bid opening process.

After opening of bids he will receive the competitor, bid sheets.

B.11 Contractor can upload documents in the form of JPG format and PDF format.

Ae yy pe

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 7 ---
 

Page 7 of 51

B.12 The price bid format is provided in a spread sheet file like BoQ_price
bid.xls, the rates offered should be entered in the allotted space only and uploaded
after filling the relevant columns. The Price Bid/BOQ template must not be
modified/replaced by the bidder; else the bid submitted is liable to be rejected for
this tender.

B.13 Contractor must ensure to quote rate of each item. Therefore, if any cell is left
blank and no rate is quoted by the bidder, rate of such item shall be treated as “OQ”
(ZERO).

B.14 The technical bid will be opened online first on due date and time as mentioned
above. The time and date of opening of financial bid of contractors qualifying the
technical bid shall be communicated to them at a later date.

B.15 Completed Tenders containing technical bid and price bid will be received
ONLINE only on CPP Portal website https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app at the fixed
time and date indicted in the NIT. The Tenderer will be at liberty to be present either in
person or through an authorized representative at the time of opening of the Technical
Bid with the Bid Acknowledgement Receipt or they can view the bid opening event online
at their remote end.

B.16 If there are any clarifications, this may be obtained online through the tender
site, or thro’ the contact details. Bidder should take into account the corrigendum
published before submitting the bids online.

B.17 It is construed that the bidder has read all the terms and conditions before
submitting their offer. Bidder should go through the tender schedules carefully and upload
the documents as asked; otherwise, the bid will be rejected.

B.18 The bidder has to digitally sign and upload the required bid documents one by
one as indicated. Bidders to note that the very act of using DSC for downloading the bids
and uploading their offers shall be deemed to be a confirmation that they have read all
sections and pages of the bid document including General conditions of contract without
any exception and have understood the entire document and are clear about the
requirements of the tender requirements.

B.19 The bidders are requested to submit the bids through online e-tendering system
to the Tender Inviting Authority (TIA) well before the bid submission end date & time (as
per Server System Clock). The TIA will not be held responsible for any sort of delay or the
difficulties faced during the submission of bids online by the bidders at the eleventh hour.
Tenderers are advised to upload their documents well in time to avoid last minute rush on
the server.

B.20 The time settings fixed in the server side & displayed at the top of the tender
site, will be valid for all actions of requesting, bid submission, bid opening etc., in the e-
tender system. The bidders should follow this time during bid submission.

ay A

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

oe


--- Page 8 ---
Page 8 of 51 :

   

Other information and terms & conditions

C4 The bid submitted shall become invalid and e-tender processing fee shall —
not be refunded if:
° If the bidder is found ineligible.
« If the documents submitted by the successful bidder does not
match with the originals before the award of work.

C.2. The Contractors/companies that were black listed at any stage need
not to apply.

C.3 The Turnover certificate from CA (chartered accountant) for three years
showing annual turnover which should not be less than Rs. 25 Lakhs in average. As
per Annexure-2 Scanned copy of certificate from chartered accountant to be
uploaded.

C.4 IF ANY INFORMATION FURNISHED by the applicant is found to be incorrect
at a later stage, they shall be liable to be debarred from mee taking up
works in NIT AGARTALA.

Co The competent authority on behalf of the Director NIT Agartala does not
bind itself to accept the lowest or any other bid and reserves to itself the authority
to reject any or all the bids received without the assignment of any reason. All
bids in which any of the prescribed condition is not fulfilled or any condition
including that of conditional rebate is put forth by the bidders shall be summarily
rejected.

C.6 Canvassing whether directly or indirectly, in connection with bidders is
strictly prohibited and the bids submitted by the contractors who resort to
canvassing will be liable for rejection.

Cor The competent authority on behalf of the Director, NIT Agartala reserves
to himself the right of accepting the whole or any part of the bid and the bidders
shall be bound to perform the same at the rate quoted.

C.8 The bid for the works shall remain open for acceptance for a period of
ninety (180) days from the date of opening of technical bid. |f any bidders
withdraws his bid before the said period or issue of letter of acceptance,
whichever is earlier, or makes any modifications in the terms and conditions of the
bid which are not acceptable to the department, then the NIT Agartala shall,
without prejudice to any other right or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit 100% of the
said earnest money as aforesaid. Further the bidders shall not be allowed to
participate in the rebidding process of the work.

 

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 9 ---
Page 9 of S1

C.9 This notice inviting Bid shall form a part of the contract document. The
successful bidders/contractor, on acceptance of his bid by the Accepting Authority
shall within 15 days from the stipulated date of start of the work, sign the contract
consisting of:-

* The Notice Inviting Bid, all the documents including additional conditions,
specifications, General Conditions of Contract and drawings, if any, forming part
of the bid as uploaded at the time of invitation of bid and the rates quoted online
at the time of submission of bid and acceptance thereof together with any
correspondence leading thereto.

« Any other Standard CPWD Form /other forms as applicable/mentioned.

C.10 Mode of payment of Tender Processing Fee and EMD: Bidders may deposit
the Tender Processing Fee and EMD through online mode only. Details for the same
are as below:

Name of beneficiary |: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Address : Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura-799046
Account No. : No.30936141729, MICR No:799002525
Name of the Bank :State Bank of India

Address of the bank ‘NIT Agartala

IFSC Code : SBINO011491

Bidders will have to upload scanned copy of Payment details towards cost of tender
processing fee & EMD during the submission of tender and the same will be accepted
only on verification & confirmation by the Institute. Any delay in credit will not be
entertained by the Institute.

C.11 TAXES: -

i) This is Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract. The taxes as applicable
shall be deducted from each bill paid to the contractor.

i) Item rate should be With/without GST (GST shall be paid extra).

ii) | Income Tax and Cess as applicable shall be deducted from each bill paid to
the contractor.

iii) | Contractor should be registered under EPF and as per law, shall pay EPF of
contract workers to concerned Department from time to time.

iv) Any other taxes/cess as per Government directives shall be deducted from
each bill paid to the contractor from time to time or as per rule in case of
manufacturer.

C.12 For any queries regarding e-tendering process, the bidders are requested
to contact as provided in the tender document. Parallely, for any further queries,
the bidders may send a mail over to estateelectrical.nita@gmail.com &

estatesectioncivil@gmail.com
Oy A

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 10 ---
Page 10 of 51

C.13 The specifications, Terms & Conditions, other regulations which are not
herein mentioned will be guided by relevant CPWD guidelines, manual,
specifications / BIS / IS/ Other Central / State Govt. norms applicable for NIT Agartala &
as prescribed by the OEM and the decision in this regard will be guided by the decision of -
the respective authority of NIT Agartala which shall be final and binding to the contractor.

C.14 Tender documents may be downloaded from Central Public Procurement
Portal_https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. Aspiring Bidders/ Suppliers who
have not enrolled / registered in e-procurement should enroll /register before
participating through the website https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app. The
portal enrolment is free of cost.

C.45 Tenderers can access tender documents on the website, fill them with
all relevant information and submit the completed tender document into
electronic tender on the website https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.

C.16 Tenders and supporting documents should be uploaded through e-
Procurement. Hard copy of the tender documents will not be accepted.

C17 In the event of acceptance of a tender, the documents submitted by the
successful bidder shall be verified with the originals before the award of work.

C.18 The tenderer should not have been blacklisted or debarred by any
Central/ State / Public Agency from carrying out similar business during last three
financial years.

C.19 The party whose tender has been accepted has to execute an agreement
on non- judicial stamp paper immediately after work order is issued.

C.20 Performance guarantee in the form DD/BC @ 5% of tendered amount has
to be furnished within 7 days of issue of LOA.

Ci2% If called for, originals of the document submitted shall be produced.

C.22 Latest General condition of contract (GCC) of CPWD will be applicable to
the extent relevant to the job.

C.23 The security deposit will be collected by deductions from the running
bills of the Bidders at the rate 10% including earnest money and “Performance
Bank Guarantee” (5%). The earnest money and Performance Bank Guarantee shall
be treated as part of security deposit. A sum @ 10% of the gross amount of the bill
shall be deducted from each running bill of the Bidder till the sum along with the
earnest money and “Performance Bank Guarantee” (5%). equal to amount of 10% of
the bided value of the work.

C.24 Any dispute is subject to the jurisdiction of Civil Court Tripura.

C.25 This work covers “Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 14
(Fourteen) numbers of Johnson make Lifts installed at NIT Agartala campus”

Contractor For afidson behalf of NIT Agartala
ee a ia

No


--- Page 11 ---
Page 11 of 51

© C.26 The work shall be executed as per CPWD general specifications for
electrical works (Part-lll - Lifts & Escalators -2003) with upto date amendments as
per relevant IS/ BIS /Other Central Govt./state Govt. norms, OEM standards applicable
and as per directions of Engineer-in-Charge. These additional specifications are to
be read in conjunction with above. However, nothing extra shall be paid on account
of these additional specifications & conditions as the same are to be read along with
schedule of quantities for the work.

C27 Necessary clarification required by the NIT Agartala shall have to be
furnished by the Tenderer within the time given by the NIT Agartala for the same.
The Tenderer will have to depute his representative to discuss with the officer(s)
of the NIT Agartala as and when so desired. In case, in the opinion of the NIT
Agartala a Tenderer is taking undue long time in furnishing the desired
clarifications, his bid will be rejected without making any reference.

C.28 A tenderer will also not be allowed to withdraw or modify any
condition at a time after the technical bids have been accepted and the
decision to open the price bid has been taken by the NIT Agartala.

C.29 The Tenderer should in his own interest visit the site and familiarize
himself with the site conditions before tendering.

C.30 No T&P shall be issued by the NIT Agartala and nothing extra shall be
paid onaccount of this.

C.31 The Tenderer will have to fill up their rates only in the price bid in BoQ
format inclusive of Taxes, packing & transportation charges or any other charges
of the materials. Tenders in which the price bids are given in any other format are
liable to be rejected.

C.32 The NIT Agartala reserves the right to reject any or all the price bids and
call for fresh prices/ tenders as the case may be without assigning any reason.

C.33 All materials, articles and workmanship shall be of respective best
quality and kind for the class described in the schedule of quantities and
specifications. All materials, so used in different items of work shall be subject to
the approval of the Engineer- in-charge.

C.34 The payment shall be on item rate basis and on the actual quantity
executed under AMC Services.

C.35 No extension of time shall be granted to the contractor on account of
rains or inclement weather conditions.

C,.36 Terms of Payment:

Payments shall be released as per General Conditions of contract and the following

conditions.

e The payment will be made Half-Yearly on receipt of your bills and supporting
documents after satisfactory and successful completion.

e If the work carried out by the contractor is not satisfactory, NIT Agartala shall

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

oe AS,

é


--- Page 12 ---
Page 12 of 51

hold such bills till satisfactory services are provided. .

e Any amount due from the contractor to NIT Agartala will be recovered from his
bill.

C37 Performance Guarantee:

The contractor whose bid is accepted will be required to furnish performance
guarantee of 5% (Five Percent) of the bid amount within Seven days of issue of LOI.
This guarantee may be in the form of Banker's cheque of any nationalized
bank/Demand Draft of any nationalized bank. In case the contractor fails to
deposit the said performance guarantee within the period as indicated above,
including the extended period (Maximum allowable extension with another 07 days
with late fee @ 0.1% per day of Performance Guarantee amount), the Earnest
Money deposited by the contractor shall be forfeited automatically without any
notice to the contractor.

C.38 Refund of performance guarantee: The performance guarantee shall be
refunded to the contractor two months after the completion of the work.

C.39 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND INDIAN STANDARDS: All works
shall be carried out in accordance with relevant regulation, both statutory and
those specified by the Indian Standards related to the works covered by these
specifications.

C.40 INDEMNITY: The successful tenderer/bidder shall at all times indemnify
the NIT Agartala, consequent on this works contract. The successful
tenderer/bidder shall be liable, in accordance with the Indian Law and Regulations
for any accident occurring due to any cause and the NIT Agartala shall not be
responsible for any accident or damage incurred or claims arising there from
during the contract period under the supervision of the successful tenderer/bidder
in so far as the latter isresponsible.

C.41 Mobilization advance: Not Applicable.

 

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 13 ---
Page 13 of 51

See eR le ag 1 Rraeeaa |
Frees s - ‘ill:
J ot Had Lee 2 :

ligt jn Paty
Pie ek
i aha

 

ntractors who fulfil the following requirem shall ONLY be qualified for financi
bid opening:

1. Work Experience: The bidders having experience of successfully completed
Lift AMC works during the last 3 years ending last day of the month previous to
the one in which applications are invited. The works completed up to previous
day of last date of submission of tenders shall also be considered.

2. Annual Financial Turnover: The Turnover certificate from CA (chartered
accountant) for three years showing annual turnover which should not be less
than Rs. 50 Lakhs in average. As per Annexure-2 Scanned copy of certificate
from chartered accountant to be uploaded.

3. Self declaration by bidder that they have not been blacklisted by any
Ministry/Department/Govt. organization of Central/State or any Public sector
organization or there is no litigation with any organization on account of
similar type of services as per Annexure-3.

4. Self declaration by bidder that no Judicial case is pending in court of law
against firm as per Annexure-3.

5. Duly signed declaration regarding acceptance of terms and conditions of the
tender by bidder as per Annexure-4.

6. Previous experience for last 3 years & work in hand. (Specific work completion
certificate with satisfaction & work orders shall be produced.)

7. Personal and Bank details of bidder as per Annxure-5,

8. Certificate from the Manufacturer of Lifts, certifying the bidder as the
authorized representative / Dealer / Vendor of the Manufacturer.

9. Certificates: (scanned copy of original certificates to be uploaded)

Copy of Certification of Incorporation/ Registration of firm

PAN (Permanent Account Number)

GST (Goods & Service Tax) Registration Certificate

E-payment details towards cost of tender processing fee & EMD.

Sia

“4 Op Jr

\w

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 14 ---
Page 14 of 51

 

 E List of Documents to be scanned and uploaded

 

While submitting bid, the Scanned copies of the following original
certificates are to be uploaded:

i) Certificates of Work Experience: Work Orders along with Completion
Certificates issued by any officer of the Department.

ii) Certification of Registration of firm / company

iii) CA Certificate for Annual Financial Turnover for the FY 19-20, 20-21, 21-22.
iv) PAN (Permanent Account Number)

v) GST (Goods & Services Tax) Registration Certificate

vi) Bank Account Detail.

vii) EPF & ESIC registration certificates

viii) E-payment details towards cost of tender processing fee & EMD

ix) Aadhaar card copy of the authorized officer of the company/firm
who will be signing agreement etc.

x) Undertaking having gone through the documents as per the Annexure-1.
xi) Any other document that bidder felt necessary in support of his candidature.

xii) Schedule of Price Bid in the form of BoQ_.xls

ee Safety Codes

Relevant safety codes of the CPWD to the extent applicable to the NIT
Agartala. Decision in this regard will be governed by the competent authority
of NIT Agartala which shall be final and binding to the contractor.

|G. | Fire Safety |

This will be as per the Fire Safety codes of the CPWD to the extent applicable
to the NIT Agartala. Decision in this regard will be governed by the competent
authority of NIT Agartala which shall be final and binding to the contractor.

\
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 15 ---
Page 15 of 51

| Form of Performance Security (G

   

 

| Form of Performance Security (Guarantee) Bank Guarantee Bond

 

In consideration of the Director, NIT Agartala (hereinafter called “The NIT
Agartala”) having offered to accept the terms and conditions of the proposed
agreement between... =< MeAAGE Siccas iis Cereetsenews (hereinafter called
“the said Contractor(s)” ‘ tor the wade. i

(hereinafter called “the said agreement”) having agreed to ‘production of an
irrevocable Bank

Guarantee for RS. cee (RUPCES ..cccerecsrererererenveees only) as a
security/guarantee from the contractor(s) for compliance of his obligations

in accordance with the terms and conditions in the said agreement.

1, WR asdansvsveseumensenacosies (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank”) hereby

undertake to pay to the NIT Agartalaan amount not exceeding Rs.
z oo (RUDEES cccsseckease Only) on demand by the NIT.Agartala.

Ds NUD: scncusscipaccapcisvisccens ... (indicate the name of the Bank) do hereby

undertake to pay yale arniouNts due and payable under this guarantee without
any demure, merely on a demand from the NIT Agartala stating that the
amount claimed as required to meet the recoveries due or likely to be due
from the said contractor(s). Any such demand made on the bank shall be
conclusive as regards the amount due and payable by the bank under this
Guarantee. However, our liability under this guarantee shall be restricted to
an amount not exceeding RS... (Rupeesonly)

3. We, the said bank further undertake to pay the NIT Agartala any money
so demanded notwithstanding any dispute or disputes raised by the
contractor(s) in any suit or proceeding pending before any court or Tribunal
relating thereto, our liability under this present being absolute and
unequivocal. The payment so made by us under this bond shall be a valid
discharge of our liability for payment thereunder and the Contractor(s) shall
have no claim against us for making such payment.

4, —« WE, sresessestsssessretersseeereeeee (INGICAtE the name of the Bank) further agree
that the guarantee herein contained shall remain in full force and effect
during the period that would be taken for the performance of the said
agreement and that it shall continue to be enforceable till all the dues of the
NIT Agartala under or by virtue of the said agreement have been fully paid
and its claims satisfied or discharged or till Engineer-in- Charge on behalf of

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

—


--- Page 16 ---
 

Page 16 of 51

the NIT Agartala certified that the terms and conditions of the said
agreement have been fully and properly carried out by the said Contractor(s)
and accordingly discharges this guarantee.

BS WR en aise . (indicate the name of the Bank) further agree
with the NIT haaybns aay the NIT Agartala shall have the fullest liberty
without our consent and without affecting in any manner our obligation
hereunder to vary any of the terms and conditions of the said agreement or
to extend time of performance by the said Contractor(s) from time to time or
to postpone for any time or from time to time any of the powers exercisable
by the NIT Agartala against the said contractor(s) and to forbear or enforce
any of the terms and conditions relating to the said agreement and we shall
not be relieved from our liability by reason of any such variation, or extension
being granted to the said Contractor(s) or for any forbearance, act of
omission on the part of the NIT Agartala or any indulgence by the NIT
Agartala to the said Contractor(s) or by any such matter or thing whatsoever
which under the law relating to sureties would, but for this provision, have
effect of so relieving us.

6. This guarantee will not be discharged due to the change in the
constitution of the Bank or the Contractor(s).

Tin WO) avsdscceesesuacarssperes (indicate the name of the Bank) lastly undertake

not to revoke this guarantee except with the previous consent of the NIT
Agartala in writing.

8. This guarantee shall be valid Up to .............00-UNLess extended on
demand by the NIT Agartala. Notwithstanding anything mentioned above, our
liability against this guarantee is restricted to RS............. (RUPGES ..5.00000cce ca. )

and unless a claim in writing is lodged with us within six months of the date of
expiry or the extended date of expiry of this guarantee all our liabilities under
this guarantee shall stand discharged. Dated the .............. day of

ee sttODe ws Cuathce ecko (indicate the name of the Bank).

A !

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 17 ---
bo Page 17 of 51

 

INTEGRITY PACT

To,

Sub: DNleT No.: 137/NITA/Estate Elect./2022-23 for the work of
“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of
Johnson make Lifts installed at NIT Agartala campus”

Dear Sir,

lt is here by declared that NIT Agartala is committed to follow the principle of
transparency, equity and competitiveness in public procurement. The subject
Notice Inviting e-Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made on the condition
that the Bidder will sign the integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of
tender/bid documents, failing which the tenderer/bidder will stand disqualified
from the tendering process and the bid of the bidder would be summarily
rejected.

This declaration shall form part and parcel of the Integrity Agreement and signing
of the same shall be deemed as acceptance and signing of the Integrity
Agreement on behalf of the NIT Agartala.

Yours faithfully

Registrar, NIT Agartala

grr, —

Sh WY 7

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 18 ---
 

Page 18 of 51

Letter of Transmittal

To,
The Registrar,
NIT Agartala,

Sub: DNleT No.: 137/NITA/Estate Elect./2022-23 for the work of
“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of
Johnson make Lifts installed at NIT Agartala campus”

Dear Sir,

|/We acknowledge that NIT Agartala is committed to follow the principles
thereof as enumerated in the Integrity Agreement enclosed with the tender/bid
document.

I/We agree that the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made
on the condition that I/We will sign the enclosed integrity Agreement, which is
an integral part of tender documents, failing which I/We will stand disqualified
from the tendering process. |/We acknowledge that THE MAKING OF THE BID
SHALL BE REGARDED AS AN UNCONDITIONAL AND ABSOLUTE ACCEPTANCE of this
condition of the NIT.

|/We confirm acceptance and compliance with the Integrity Agreement in letter
and spirit and further agree that execution of the said Integrity Agreementshall
be separate and distinct from the main contract, which will come into existence
when tender/bid is finally accepted by NIT Agartala. |/We acknowledge and
accept the duration of the Integrity Agreement, which shall be in the line with
Article 1 of the enclosed Integrity Agreement.

|/We acknowledge that in the event of my/our failure to sign and accept the
Integrity Agreement, while submitting the tender/bid, NIT Agartala shall have
unqualified, absolute and unfettered right to disqualify the tenderer/bidder and
reject the tender/bid is accordance with terms and conditions of the tender/
bid.

Yours faithfully

. AM Loe
(Duly authorized signatory of the Bidder) de Y /

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

a


--- Page 19 ---
€ Page 19 of 51

INTEGRITY AGREEMENT
This Integrity Agreement is made at ............... ON CRISi sc cosciecus Gavel unease
2021
BETWEEN

The Director, NIT Agartala represented through Registrar, NIT Agartala,
(Principal /Owner)

COOTER OOO EERE REO E EHH ETTORE RO ORT TO ee

Individual/firm/Company)
WCU acess a crane wedvascn cu cadas cekalcevads Gir vadeundabesevaesseusepereceruanieere tse iaewin yes

(Hereinafter referred to as the (Details of duly authorized signatory)
“Bidder/Contractor” and which expression shall unless repugnant to the
meaning or context hereof include its successors and permitted assigns)

Preamble

WHEREAS the Principal /Owner has floated the Tender vide DNieT No.:
137/NITA/Estate Elect./2022-23 (Hereinafter referred to as “Tender/Bid”)
and intends to award, under laid down organizational procedure, contract for
“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of
Johnson make Lifts installed at NIT Agartala campus” hereinafter referred to
as the “Contract”.

AND WHEREAS the Principal/Owner values full compliance with all relevant laws
of the land, rules, regulations, economic use of resources and of
fairness/transparency in its relation with its Bidder(s) and Contractor(s).

AND WHEREAS to meet the purpose aforesaid both the parties have agreed to
enter into this Integrity Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “Integrity Pact”
or “Pact”), the terms and conditions of which shall also be read as integral part
and parcel of the Tender/Bid documents and Contract between the parties.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of mutual covenants contained in this Pact,
the parties hereby agree as follows and this Pact witnesses as under:

i Oe. a a L_

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 20 ---
Page 20 of 51

Article 1: Commitment of the Principal/Owner

(1) The Principal/Owner commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent
corruption and to observe the following principles:

(a) No employee of the Principal/Owner, personally or through any of
his/her family members, will in connection with the Tender, or the execution of
the Contract, demand, take a promise for or accept, for self or third person, any
material or immaterial benefit which the person is not legally entitled to.

(b) The Principal/Owner will, during the Tender process, treat all Bidder(s)
with equity and reason. The Principal/Owner will, in particular, before and
during the Tender process, provide to all Bidder(s) the same information and will
not provide to any Bidder(s) confidential / additional information through which
the Bidder(s) could obtain an advantage in relation to the Tender process or the
Contract execution.

(c) The Principal/Owner shall endeavour to exclude from the Tender process
any person, whose conduct in the past has been of biased nature.

(2) If the Principal/Owner obtains information on the conduct of any of its
employees which is a criminal offence under the Indian Penal code
(IPC)/Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (PC Act) or is in violation of the
principles herein mentioned or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard,
the Principal/Owner will inform the Chief Vigilance Officer and in addition can
also initiate disciplinary actions as per its internal laid down policies and
procedures.

Article 2: Commitment of the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)

(1) It is required that each Bidder/Contractor (including their respective
officers, employees and agents) adhere to the highest ethical standards, and
report to the NIT Agartala / Department all suspected acts of fraud or
corruption or Coercion or Collusion of which it has knowledge or becomes aware,
during the tendering process and throughout the negotiation or award of a
contract.

2) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) commits himself to take all measures
necessary to prevent corruption. He commits himself to observe the following
principles during his participation in the Tender process and during the Contract
execution:

(a) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other
person or firm, offer, promise or give to any of the Principal/Owner’s employees
involved in the Tender process or execution of the Contract or to any third person

Contractor For and yy of NIT Agartala

as pies"


--- Page 21 ---
Pa Page 21 of 51

any material or other benefit which he/she is not legally entitled to, in orderto
obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever during the Tender
process or during the execution of the Contract.

(b) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not enter with other Bidder(s) into any
undisclosed agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal. This
applies in particular to prices, specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts,
submission or non-submission of bids or any other actions to restrict
competitiveness or to cartelize in the bidding process.

(c) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not commit any offence under the
relevant IPC/PC Act. Further the Bidder(s)/ Contract(s) will not use improperly,
(for the purpose of competition or personal gain), or pass on to others, any
information or documents provided by the Principal/Owner as part of the
business relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals and business details,
including information contained or transmitted electronically. (d) The
Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of foreign origin shall disclose the names and addresses
of agents/ representatives in India, if any. Similarly Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of
Indian Nationality shall disclose mames and addresses of’ foreign
agents/representatives, if any. Either the Indian agent on behalf of the foreign
principal or the foreign principal directly could bid in a tender but not both.
Further, in cases where an agent participate in a tender on behalf of one
manufacturer, he shall not be allowed to quote on behalf of another
manufacturer along with the first manufacturer in a subsequent/parallel tender
for the same item.

(d) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will, when presenting his bid, disclose any
and all payments he has made, is committed to or intends to make to agents,
brokers or any other intermediaries in connection with the award of the
Contract.

(3) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not instigate third persons to commit
offences outlined above or be an accessory to such offences.

4) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other
person or firm indulge in fraudulent practice means a willful misrepresentation
or omission of facts or submission of fake/forged documents in order to induce
public official to act in reliance thereof, with the purpose of obtaining unjust
advantage by or causing damage to justified interest of others and/or to
influence the procurement process to the detriment of the NIT Agartala
interests.

6) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other
person or firm use Coercive Practices (means the act of obtaining something,
compelling an action or influencing a decision through intimidation, threat or the
use of force directly or indirectly, where potential or actual injury may befall

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

we Oy sr


--- Page 22 ---
Page 22 of 51

upon a person, his/her reputation or property to influence their participation in
the tendering process).

Article 3: Consequences of Breach

Without prejudice to any rights that may be available to the Principal/Owner
under law or the Contract or its established policies and laid down procedures,
the Principal/Owner shall have the following rights in case of breach of this
Integrity Pact by the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) and the Bidder/ Contractor accepts
and undertakes to respect and uphold the Principal/Owner’s absolute right:

(1) If the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s), either before award or during execution of
Contract has committed a transgression through a violation of Article 2 above or
in any other form, such as to put his reliability or credibility in question, the
Principal/Owner after giving 14 days notice to the contractor shall have powers
to disqualify the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) from the Tender process or
terminate/determine the Contract, if already executed or exclude the
Bidder/Contractor from future contract award processes. The imposition and
duration of the exclusion will be determined by the severity of transgression and
determined by the Principal/Owner. Such exclusion may be forever or for a
limited period as decided by the Principal/Owner.

(2) Forfeiture of EMD/Performance Guarantee/Security Deposit: If the
Principal/Owner has disqualified the Bidder(s) from the Tender process prior to
the award of the Contract or terminated/determined the Contract or has accrued
the right to terminate/determine the Contract according to Article 3(1), the
Principal/Owner apart from exercising any legal rights that may have accrued to
the Principal/Owner, may in its considered opinion forfeit the entire amount of
Earnest Money Deposit, Performance Guarantee and Security Deposit of the
Bidder/Contractor.

(3) Criminal Liability: If the Principal/Owner obtains knowledge of conduct
of a Bidder or Contractor, or of an employee or a representative or an associate
of a Bidder or Contractor which constitutes corruption within the meaning of IPC
Act, or if the Principal/Owner has substantive suspicion in this regard, the
Principal/Owner will inform the. same to law enforcing agencies for further
investigation.

Article 4: Previous Transgression
(1) The Bidder declares that no previous transgressions occurred in the last
5 years with any other Company in any country confirming to the anticorruption
approach or with Central Government or State Government or any other
Central/State Public Sector Enterprises in India that could justify his exclusion
from the Tender process.

 

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 23 ---
© Page 23 of 51

(2) lf the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be
disqualified from the Tender process or action can be taken for banning of
business dealings/ holiday listing of the Bidder/Contractor as deemed fit by the
Principal/ Owner.

(3) If the Bidder/Contractor can prove that he has resorted / recouped the
damage caused by him and has installed a suitable corruption prevention system,
the Principal/Owner may, at its own discretion, revoke the exclusion
prematurely.

Article 5: Equal Treatment of all Bidders/Contractors/Subcontractors

(1) The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) undertake(s) to demand from all
subcontractors a commitment in conformity with this Integrity Pact. The
Bidder/Contractor shall be responsible for any violation(s) of the principles laid
down in this agreement/Pact by any of its Subcontractors/sub-vendors.

(2) The Principal/Owner will enter into Pacts on identical terms as this one
with all Bidders and Contractors.

(3) The Principal/Owner will disqualify Bidders, who do not submit, the duly
signed Pact between the Principal/ Owner and the bidder, along with the Tender
or violate its provisions at any stage of the Tender process, from the Tender
process.

Article 6- Duration of the Pact

This Pact begins when both the parties have legally signed it. It expires for the
Contractor/Vendor 12 months after the completion of work under the contract
or till the continuation of defect liability period, whichever is more and for all
other bidders, till the Contract has been awarded. If any claim is made/lodged
during the time, the same shall be binding and continue to be valid despite the
lapse of this Pacts as specified above, unless it is discharged/determined bythe
Competent Authority, NIT Agartala.

Article 7- Other Provisions
(1) This Pact is subject to Indian Law, place of performance and jurisdiction
is the Headquarters of the Division of the Principal/Owner, who has floated the

Tender.

(2) Changes and supplements need to be made in writing. Side agreements

have not been made.
ge GW !

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 24 ---
Page 24 of 51

(3) If the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this Pact must be
signed by all the partners or by one or more partner holding power of attorney
signed by all partners and consortium members. In case of a Company, the Pact
must be signed by a representative duly authorized by board resolution.

(4) Should one or several provisions of this Pact turn out to be invalid; the
remainder of this Pact remains valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come
to an agreement to their original intensions.

(5) It is agreed term and condition that any dispute or difference arising
between the parties with regard to the terms of this Integrity Agreement / Pact,
any action taken by the Owner/Principal in accordance with this Integrity
Agreement/ Pact or interpretation thereof shall not be subject to arbitration.

Article 8- LEGAL AND PRIOR RIGHTS

All rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be in addition to all the other
legal rights and remedies belonging to such parties under the Contract and/or
law and the same shall be deemed to be cumulative and not alternative to such
legal rights and remedies aforesaid. For the sake of brevity, both the Parties
agree that this Integrity Pact will have precedence over the Tender/Contact
documents with regard any of the provisions covered under this Integrity Pact.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed and executed this Integrity Pact at
the place and date first above mentioned in the presence of following witnesses:

See eee R ORO POORER TTR RRR PCR eee eee eee eee eee

CORPSE RR ECO ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee!

(For and on behalf of Bidder/Contractor)

WITNESSES:

(Signature, name and address)

Place:
Dated:

ny ae

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 25 ---
 

- Page 25 of 51

 

AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT made on the day of 2023
between NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA (hereinafter called "The NIT
AGARTALA" which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or meaning
thereof, include its administrators, successors and assigns) of the one part
AND (herein
after called "The Contractor” which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or
meaning thereof, include its successors and permitted assigns) of the other part.

WHEREAS

The NIT AGARTALA is desirous of carrying out the work of “Comprehensive Annual
Maintenance Contract for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of Johnson make Lifts installed at
NIT Agartala campus”

The Works are to be executed as per the schedules mentioned in tender document and
specifications describing the works to be done.

The Contractor has agreed to execute the said works subject to the provisions hereinafter
contained and subject also to General Conditions of Contract, Special conditions of
contract, Safety Code, Model Rules for the protection of health and Sanitary
arrangements for workers, Specifications, Preambles and Schedule of Quantities and
installation schedule (all of which are hereinafter collectively referred to as the ‘said
tender conditions’) and strictly in accordance with the Scope of work annexed hereto at
or for the respective rates set out in the Schedule of Quantities amounting to the sum as
there under arrived at or such other sums as shall become payable there under
(hereinafter referred to as the said tendered amount).

NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS: -

1. In consideration of the said tendered amount to be paid by The NIT AGARTALA to
the Contractor at the time and in the manner set forth in the said tender
conditions and in accordance with the Schedule of Payments to execute and
complete the work shown strictly in accordance with the specifications, scope of
work and Schedule of Quantities.

2. The said tender conditions, scope of work and the annexures hereto shall be read
and considered as forming part of this contract and the parties hereto shall
respectfully abide by to the said conditions and perform the agreement on their
part respectively contained in the said conditions.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

ok Ly Jo


--- Page 26 ---
Page 26 of 51 o

3. The approved drawings if any, notice inviting tenders technical specification etc.
shall also form the basis of this contract.

4. This contract is neither a Lump sum Contract, nor a piece work contract, but is a
Annual maintenance contract to be carried out and to be paid for according to the
Schedule of Payments at the rates contained.

5. The contract herein contained shall comprise not only the works mentioned above
but all subsidiary works connected therewith within the same site as may be ordered
to be done from time to time by the said Engineer In charge for the time being,
even if such work may not be shown on the said Drawings or described in the said
Specifications and Schedule of Quantities.

6. The NIT AGARTALA reserves to themselves the right of altering the specifications
and the nature of the work by adding to or omitting from the scope of work any
item of work or portions of the same without prejudice to this contract.

7. Time shall be considered as the essence of this contract and the Contractor hereby
agrees to commence the work within 07 days from the date of work order or from
the date of handing over of the site, as provided for in the said terms and conditions,
whichever is later, and shall complete the entire work within the specified period,
subject nevertheless the provisions for extension of time as may be agreed to by
the NIT AGARTALA and as contained in the said conditions.

8. All payments by the NIT AGARTALA under this contract shall be made only atNITA.

9. All disputes arising out of or in any way connected with this contract shall be
deemed to have arisen at Indore and courts in Tripura only shall have jurisdiction
to determine the same.

10. That the contract and several parts of this contract have been read by the
contractor and fully understood by him. The contractor shall not be entitled for
payment beyond tendered quantities & scope of work as specified unless ordered
specifically by written instructions of competent authority of NIT AGARTALA.

11. This contract shall be signed in duplicate, the original whereof shall be kept in the
custody of the NIT AGARTALA, and the duplicate with the Contractor.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the NIT AGARTALA has set his hands hereunto and two duplicates
hereof through his duly authorized official and the Contractor has caused these presents
and two duplicates hereof under his common seal by his duly authorized representative
at the place and on the date month and year first herein shove written.

wy

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 27 ---
w Page 27 of 51

SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED by NIT AGARTALA, by the hand of

Signature:
Name:
Designation: Registrar, NIT Agartala

IN THE PRESENCE OF

(1) Signature:
Name:
Address:

(2) Signature:
Name:
Address:

SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED BY the Contractor M/s.

Signature:
Name:
Designation:

IN THE PRESENCE OF
(1) Signature:
Name:
Address:

(2) Signature:
Name:
Address:

gS iY a

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 28 ---
Page 28 of 51

Ke General Conditions of Contract

 

This will be as per the General Conditions of Contract (GCC) of the CPWD to the
extent applicable to the NIT Agartala. Decision in this regard will be governed by
the competent authority of NIT Agartala which shall be final and binding to the
contractor.

A ee
) ;

t

oS

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 29 ---
Page 29 of 51

 

Scope of Work:

a.

m.

The contract is Initially for a period of 3 (Three) Years and it will be extended
to 4° & 5" year based on the satisfactory performance and subject to approval
of the authority.

CAMC Contract may be terminated by NIT Agartala at its discretion by giving 30
days’ notice to the service provider in case of failure to maintain the AMC
services at the satisfaction of the NIT Agartala and the agreement with NIT
Agartala in that case will be treated as cancelled before expiry date of notice
and the contract.

Regular servicing & inspection of the elevators/Lifts should be carried out at least
once in a month by the service provider.

The service provider shall regularly examine elevator equipments and provide
Gear oil, Lubricate, Grease, Mobil, Break Shoe Gibbs, Push Buttons Car and
Landings etc. for maintenance if required.

. Response time for maintenance of items covered under CAMC will be 12 hours

including holidays.

In the event of service provider unable to attend call, NIT Agartala reserves the
right to take legal action and deduct the amount from the bill.

You shall not engage any sub-agent or sub-contractor whatsoever for running the
CAMC Service.

. The contract for running the CAMC Service shall be commercial contract and

between NIT Agartala & contractor. There shall be no employer-employees
relationship between NIT Agartala and the contractor and/his personnel.

The CAMC is of Comprehensive type. Any replacement of spares should be with
new and of equivalent type or higher of same make.

Monthly routine maintenance and checkup to be carried out for the machine,
controls, ropes, breaks, control cables, batteries and other mechanical and
electrical parts and appliances.

Repair and /or replacement of the worn-out parts related to lifts at his own
cost for ensuring smooth service.

All the replaced parts shall conform to relevant |.S. codes or lifts Act and rules
made there under.

The entire Lift system including electrical and mechanical system (inside and
outside) should be under the CAMC.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT re

a


--- Page 30 ---
Page 30 of 51

Special Conditions of Contract:

a. Details of monthly scheduled maintenance/break down shall be entered in the
register/service slip & jointly signed by the firm’s representative and NIT
Agartala representative.

b. Contractor will have to make minimum 12 visits (01 visit per month) during the
AMC period. Beside this, any number of breakdown calls will have to be attended.
The response time for such breakdown calls shall not exceeds 12 hours. Beyond
this penalty shall be imposed as per penalty clause.

c. Contractor’s mechanic/engineer shall reach to the site within 12 hour after
lodging a complaint. Delay in reporting period shall be recorded and penalty shall
be imposed at the rate of Rs. 1000/- per day per lift.

d. Contractor will have to take necessary care and precaution to keep the elevator
safe for use and in good working condition. Trained technical staff shall carry out
maintenance work.

e. Contractor will have to carry out all customary safety tests to examine all safety
devices.

f. As the contract is comprehensive in nature, no payment will be made as an extra
for replacement of spare parts etc.

g. No parts or components of the lifts being maintained by contractor shall be
removed without prior approval and knowledge of NIT Agartala. Any part to be
removed from the lift for repair shall be done after approval of the nominated
engineer/ supervisor.

h. Any damage to NIT Agartala property while carrying out periodical maintenance
and attending break down will be contractors’ responsibility.

i. Thorough cleaning of machine room, control panel machine unit & hoist way with
lift car and pit shall be done once in a month, which will be certified by NIT
Agartala representative.

j. Contractor shall not only attend the failure but also rectify the cause of failure
after investigation.

k. Penalty imposed for late reporting, late replacement of defective parts and Down
time of lift shall be deducted from monthly bill of the firm. AMC bill shall be
paid after six month. No advance payment will be paid.

|. There should be a site office/ maintenance cell (lift) inside the NIT Agartala on
compulsory basis for CAMC job. Bills of Room rent, electricity, water etc. should be
pay by the agency/ contractor separately.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

a y [Ben—


--- Page 31 ---
Page 31 of 51

m. All payments shall be made in Indian currency. The payment will be released on
Half Yearly basis after ascertaining that the service is rendered satisfactorily. The
preventive and corrective maintenance service report has to be submitted with bill.

The reports of periodic maintenance and breakdown maintenance shall be signed by
the Junior Engineer (Elect.).

n. Annexure 6 to 10 should be submitted with each & every running bills.

0. The total value (BOQ) is inclusive of fooding, lodging to & fro charges of service
Engineers. GST as applicable are extra and shall be reimbursed on production of
proof of payment of GST

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 32 ---
Equipment Description:

Sl.

The following 14 numbers of lifts will be covered under this agreement:

 

Page 32 of 51

 

Description of Lift

 

Height of

  
  

 

  

 

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No, Location (Johnson) Lift No. Lifts oe
1 | Administrative Building 1 (W) 10 Passengers L-L-3203 G+3 1 No.
2 | Administrative Building 1 (E) 13 Passengers L-L-3213 G+3 1 No.
L |
3 | Administrative Building 2 (S) 8 Passengers L-L-3204 G+2 1 No.
4 8 Passengers | L-L-3205 | G+2 | 1No.
2 | ECE Building (S) 13 Passengers L-L-3201 G+6 1 No.
6 | ECE Building (N) 13 Passengers | L-L-3202 | G+6
7 | School of Management (S) 10 Passengers L-L-3206 G+4
8 | School of Management (N) 10 Passengers L-L-3207 G+4
9 | International Guest House 8 Passengers L-L-3214 G+3
10 | Central Library (S) 10 Passengers L-L-3210 G+4
11 | Central Library (N) 10 Passengers L-L-3211 G+4
| 12 | DoNER Building (N) 10 Passengers L-L-3208 G+3 1 No.
13 | DoNER Building (S) | 10 Passengers L-L-3209 G+3 1 No.
(14 [central Library 500 Kgs. Goods L-L-3212 G+4 1 No.

 

Term and Price:

a. The NIT Agartala shall pay the Contractor the specified amount on Half Yearly
basis for the work performed during that period on presentation of an approved
invoice by the Contractor. No advance payment will be made in any case. Taxes
will be deducted from the bill as applicable.

yy pH

Contractor

 

 

 

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 33 ---
ky Page 33 of 51

Termination of Agreement:

a. Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving the other party not less than
thirty (30) days written notice.

Contractor to comply with laws:

a. In the performance of this Contract, the Contractor shall abide by all existing laws,
codes, rules and regulations set forth by all governmental units and authorities
having competent jurisdiction over Contractor and/orthe work performed by
Contractor hereunder. Contractor shall also procure and pay any necessary
permits or licenses pertaining to the work performed by Contractor pursuant to
this Contract.

b. All repair, parts replacement or adjustments called for hereunder shall be
performed in full compliance with specified laws, standards and codes set by the
government with latest edition, including amendments thereto, and with
applicable regulations of the state, city and/or local authorities. In case of
conflict, the more stringent regulations will apply.

Warranty:

Contractor warrants that the elevator/lift maintenance services will be provided
to the NIT Agartala in accordance with the terms of this Contract and with
prevailing industry standards for elevator/ lift maintenance services. Contractor
shall use its best efforts under the circumstances to remedy any delays,
interruptions, omissions, mistakes, accidents or errors in such services and
restore any service to compliance with the terms of this Contract.

Availability of Authorized Representative:

The contractor shall ensure availability of his authorized representative at NIT
Agartala to receive emergency calls and take remedial actions. The
representative should attend the call immediately to ensure the restoration of
the services promptly. If shutdown of any Lift continues for more than 12 hours a
penalty of Rs. 1000/- per day per Lift for delay beyond 12 hours shall be imposed
and the amount of penalty shall be recovered from the bills.

Lae
ae Gy &
Ny

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 34 ---
Page 34 of 51

Responsibility of Accident and hazards:

The contractor shall be responsible for any accident or hazard that take place
during the maintenance period due to negligence of work performed by the
agency. He shall also be responsible for payment of compensation and penalties
payable to effected parties as a result of legal action. He shall also be
responsible for repairs and replacement of damaged parts of the lift and restore
services immediately failing which, a penalty @ Rs. 1000/- per day per lift shall
be imposed and recovered from bills / deposit or any other sum due to the
contractor applicable maximum LD ceiling@10% of net contract value per lift.

Spares & parts covered under CAMC:

The replacement of following spares shall be covered under the CAMC:

 

 

 

Si. | Item SI. | Item Sl. | Item
No. No. No.
1 =| 1/0 Card 30 | Break magnate coil | Lock Latch landing |

 
 
   

door

 

 

2 | AC Relay Card

31 | Motor Cooling Fan

 

3 | DC relay Card

 

| 4

Decoder card

33 | Car top PCB

32 | V3F10 Drive

62 | Synchronize rope

60 | Self-closing rope
61

   

Light curtain

 

5 | ON Delay timer

34 | Communication
PCB

 

6 | Off delay Timer

 

35 | Door GIBS, chock

| 63 Lock latch roller

 

 

 

7 | Transformer

———_+

 

 

36 | CAE Door contacts

 

64 | Light curtain PCB |
| 65 | Position indicator

 

8 | Rectifier
u

 

37 | PIT switch |

66 | Call buttons.

 

 

~ | Rectifier PCB

38 | Synchronize Switch

 

10 | Contractors

67 | CAR door Motor

 

 

39 | Oscillator Switch

 

68 | Track Roller |
|

 

| 11 | Control relay
12 | V3F Filter

 

40 | Piano wire

41 | Tension weight
pulley bearing

 

 

13 | Capacitor

 

| 14 | Travelling cable

43 | Break Liner —

69 | Anti-track roller
7O | CPU Card

 

 

42 | Gear Oil

 

 

if

71 =| Expansion card
72 | Main Rope |

 

 

 

73 | OSG rope

 

74 | Car Door coupler

 

 

 

Contractor

 

15 | Lock Box 44 | Car guide shoe
16 | Thermal overload 45 | CWT shoe

relay "
17 | PF & RR card 46 | C.V.T

 

 

 

ws

For “oe of NIT Agartala

75 | Alarm bell/buzzer
n

peo


--- Page 35 ---
Ne Page 35 of 51

   
   
       
    
    
      
  

 

18 | Light Invertor 47 | Landing Door
a a
19 | Wet/ Dry Cells 48 Elevator lighting Elevator car

  

batteries (including indicator enclosure
bulbs, fluorescent
tubes
49 Cabin fans., Blower
fans

  
  

   

 

Decorative item
including mirror and
handrail
79 | VVVF Drive

Elevator car and
landing door panels /
gates.

Controller component | 50 | Machine Encoder

  
  

 
      

 

 

Integrated Drive 51 | Rollers, Bearings | 80 | Solenoids, Coils

 

 

 

| 23 | Relays in Controller 52 | Push Button, 81 | Door contacts
indicators

' 24 | Push Buttons 53 | Limit Switches 82

         
      
    
  
    

Break shoes, Liners

 

 

25 | Contacts 54 Magnetic switches 83 | Magnets

 

 

  
  
 
 

 

26 | Door Motor & Drive 55 | Encoder 84 | Car door safety
q | device
27 | Infrared screen 56 | Governor 85 | Interlocks on Hoist

     
   

way doors

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28 | Machine room door 57 | Gear oil 86 | Mechanical parts
| lock
29 | Motors 58 | Machines Flooring

 

 

All parts and components fitted by agency should be original parts or components. If
original parts or components are not available, the parts or components fitted will be of
equal quality and any defects in design, material or workmanship relating to parts and
components shall be limited to the replacement of spare parts or components as defined
by this article and which shall be certified by the O.E.M.

a =

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 36 ---
Page 36 of 51 ~

 

 

M. | Formats for Different Forms/Certificates | |

 

Annexure-1

Undertaking having gone through the documents as per the Technical bid

Sub.: “Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of
Johnson make Lifts installed at NIT Agartala campus.”

DNleT No.: 137/NITA/Estate Elect. /2022-23

Dated: .....

To,

The Registrar,

NIT Agartala,

Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura - 799046.

Dear Sir,

We have carefully examined the specifications, design and schedule of quantities
relating to the work specified in the memorandum hereinafter set out and have visited and
examined the installation site of the works specified in the said memorandum and have
acquired the requisite information relating thereto as affecting the tender. We hereby
offer to execute the CAMC works specified in the said memorandum within the time
specified in the said memorandum at the rates mentioned in the Schedule of Quantities and
in accordance in all respects with specifications, designs and instructions in writing
referred to in articles of agreement, general instructions to the tenderers and special
conditions, General Conditions of Contract, conditions hereinbefore referred to,
specifications, schedule of works, data sheet and schedule of quantities and with such
materials as are provided for, by and in all other respects, in accordance with such
conditions so far as they may be applicable.

A Pa ; sy —
R /

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 37 ---
Nese Page 37 of 51

Memorandum

 

 

A.1.1. |DNleT No.: 137/NITA/Estate Elect. /2022-23

 

 

 

“Comprehensive Annual Maintenance
A.1.2 |Name of Work Contract for 14 (Fourteen) numbers of
_ Johnson make Lifts installed at NIT Agartala

__campus.”

 

4 ae _ Rs. 93,000/- (Rupees Ninety Three Thousand
A.1.3 |Earnest Money Deposit ia by e-payment through electronic mode.

 

 

 

(Rs.)
wie Tender Processing Fee Rs. 1,500/- by e-payment through electronic
= NERS) mode (Non-Refundable)

 

|

| Initially for a period of 3 (Three) Years and it
will be extended to 4" & 5" year based on the
satisfactory performance subject to approval of

_ the authority.

Mode of submission of .
f A.1.6 Tender | On-Line mode only

2. We also agree that our tender will remain valid for acceptance by the NIT
Agartala for 180 days from the date of opening of technical bid of the tender
and this period of validity can be extended for such period as may be mutually
agreed between the NIT Agartala and us in writing. We also agree to keep the
Bank Guarantee towards earnest money valid during the entire period of
validity of tender and the extended period, if any, as per enclosed proforma.
Should this tender be accepted, we hereby agree to abide by and fulfil all the
terms and conditions of the contract and in default thereof, to forfeit Earnest
Money Deposit and pay to you or your successors, or assignees or nominees such
sums of money as are stipulated in the said conditions.

 

A.1.5 |Contract period

 

 

 

 

3. Should this tender be accepted, we hereby agree to abide by and fulfil all
the terms and conditions of the contract and in default thereof, to forfeit Earnest
Money Deposit and pay to you or your successors, or assignees or nominees such
sums of money as are stipulated in the said conditions.

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 38 ---
Page 38 of 51

4. We understand that you reserve the right to accept or reject any or
all the tenders either in full or in part without assigning any reason

therefor.

Dated this day of 2023.

For and on behalf of M/s

 

 

(Signature with seal)

Name

Designation

Place

Contractor For and a behalf of NIT Agartala
A\ yf ,, —
OM /

wr


--- Page 39 ---
te Page 39 of 51

Annexure - 2
(To be scanned and uploaded)
(Printed on letter head of Chartered
Accountant)
Turnover Certificate

Name of the Company/Firm/Agency:

 

Address of the Company/Firm/Agency:

 

This is to certify that | have verified the annual turnover of the
Company/firm/Agency named above for business related to Comprehensive
Maintenance For Lifts for The Years 2017- 2020 and it is as mentioned below; and
that it is correct.

      
      
   

     

  
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Description Financial Year Financial Year Financial Year
No. 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22
Rs. (both, in figures | Rs. (both, in figures | Rs. (both, in figures
and words ) and words ) and words )
p=
1. Annual Turnover |
Place -
Date -

Name, Address, Signature and Seal of the Chartered
Accountant AL
- eye

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 40 ---
Page 40 of 51 es

Annexure-3

(To be scanned and uploaded) (Printed on
letterhead of firm/ company)

Self-Declaration regarding not being blacklisted

| Shri / Smt. Proprietor/ Director/
Authorised signatory of the Company/ firm/ Agency M/s

hereby declare that we are
not black-listed by any Central/State Government/Public Sector Undertaking or

 

any other organization for Comprehensive Maintenance For Lifts in India or
elsewhere.

We are not involved in any litigation that may have an impact on execution
of contract or may compromise the delivery of service as required under this
tender.

There is no Judicial case is pending in court of law against firm.

(Signature of Authorized Person)

 

 

Place:
Name
Date : Designation
ee rar ie | ee) be
Seal
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

be —y/ —

io


--- Page 41 ---
os Page 41 of 51

Annexure-4
(To be scanned and uploaded) (Printed on
letterhead of firm/ company)

SELF DECLARATION

Declaration as regards acceptance of terms and conditions of contract

1. | Shri. /Smt. Proprietor / Director
/ authorized signatory of the Company/Firm/Agency M/s
am competent to sign this declaration

and execute this tender document;

mw

| have carefully read and understood all the terms and conditions of the
tender and undertake to abide by them;

3. The information/documents furnished along with the tender are true and
authentic to the best of my knowledge and belief. | / We, am / are well
aware of the fact that furnishing of any false information / fabricated
document would lead to rejection of my tender at any stage, besides the
liabilities towards prosecution under appropriate law.

(Signature of Authorized Person)

Place:
Name

Date : Designation

Address:

Seal

g 7 A

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 42 ---
 

Page 42 of 51

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

 

ACCOUNT TYPE

 

Annexure-5
(To be scanned and uploaded)
Personal & Bank Details for RTGS
All columns are mandatory
Sr.No. | Personal Detail
is NAME OF THE
COMPETENT PERSON &
AGENCY ‘ sill
ae ADDRESS OF THE
AGENCY
3. | CONTACT DETAILS | 1) LANDLINE NO. :
2) MOBILE NO.:
3) e-mail ID:
{sty Le
5! PAN NO,
6, GST NO. - a
Bank Details -
NAME OF THE AGENCY i
FOR ONLINE TRANSFER
NAME OF THE BANK |
CITY OF THE BANK =
= ACCOUNT NO _|

 

  

BRANCH CODE

 

 

ADDRESS OF THE
BRANCH
IFSC CODE

 
  
  

 

 

 

MICR NO.

 

 

 

Place:

Date :

Contractor

(Signature of Authorized Person)
Name
Designation

Address:

Seal

 

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

- wi
:


--- Page 43 ---
Page 43 of 51

DESCRIPTION OF EQUIPMENT : LIFT

 

 

 

LIFT capacity
Nos.

 

 

 

 

Travel & openings
Controller

Door-Operation
Machine No.

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

Annexure -6

Details to be supplied before starting of work :

 

 

  
 
  
 
 
   
   

Name of the Agency
(with office address)

 

Z. Name of Proprietor/ partner

 

 

 

3. Telephone Nos. of the firm
4. Name and address of the supervisor
cM <p 24 Hrs. contact No.

 

 

 

Particulars of the License/ Registration

4 ye

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 44 ---
Page 44 of 51

COMPLAIN REGISTER (LIFT NO

 

ee ceeee

Annexure -7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date & Date &
, me 3 Nature of Sj ei of Time of Cause | Material | Signature of
No, Complaint Complaint C a ininant attending | of Fault | Used Firm’s
P E complaint Representative
| a
pee [oe to
7F = ym eet
Racene'h ah ih ee
ie te)
ie

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Firm’s Representative

Contractor

 

Junior Engineer

For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

re A


--- Page 45 ---
‘ew Page 45 of 51

Annexure -8

Programme for Periodical Maintenance for the Month of

Name of Firm :

 

LIFT No.:

 

Name of Site :

 

The firm shall see that the following work is carried out by an authorized
person appointed by him under these rules at least once in a month and the
result are recorded by such person in log book.

 

Maintenance Type ! Nature of

Date & Time of ie
(Monthly/ Quarterly/ esas Complaint (if
Yearly) Complaint (if any) any)

Sl.
No.

 

 

 

i) Cleaning and lubricating the guides.

ii) Examining the ropes and their attachments.

iii)Examining the safety devices.

iv)Examining and lubricating the door locks.

v) Examining the moving parts lubricating with proper quality of lubrication.
vi)Examining all electrical connections including lighting, plug point & earthing.
vii) Others, if any

Firm’s Representative Junior Engineer

Contractor For and.en behalf of NIT Agartala
Gl WY [pi
=

cS

 


--- Page 46 ---
Page 46 of 51

Annexure -9

Actual for Periodical Maintenance carried out for the Month of

Name of Firm:
eee
LIFT No.:
a Se
Name of Site :
Oo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

/ _& in
S| Maintenance Type Result
hs (Monthly/ Quarterly/ Date & Time) (Satisfactory/
, Yearly) Unsatisfactory)
+ nig he :
|
= =
—— = = l 4
2 | i
_| |
: ia eta
Firm’s Representative Junior Engineer
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

g - ry a —


--- Page 47 ---
wo Page 47 of 51

Annexure -10

FAULT - FORMAT

LIFT No.
Date Time (of occurrence of Fault)
Date Time (of Reporting of Fault)

1. Fault Reported to : Technical support centre (Name of the person) on phone:

2. Mode of Reporting: Landline ( ) Mobile( ) E-mail ( )

3. Description of fault & observation of the reporting officer.

ee

a

4. Details of Services affected :

5. Date Time (of receiving the 1* assistance over phone
from Technical support centre)
6. Details of Assistance received:

(Note : Add additional sheet if needed)

7. Was the fault restored by following the instructions given over phone ?
A. YES B-NO (Tick whichever is applicable)

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

4 YY MA


--- Page 48 ---
Page 48 of 51 ~

8. If Yes, record the date & time of restoration & duration of fault :

Date Time (In hours & Minutes)

 

 

9. Duration of fault Days Hours Minutes
10. Was the fault restored ?
A. YES B-NO (Tick whichever is applicable)

11. If the fault is not restored or restored only partially, give details of observation :
(Note: add additional sheet if needed)

12. Note : Date & Time of giving feedback

Date Time (In hours & Minutes)

 

 

13. Date & Time of arrival of Firm’s Expert at site of Fault:

Date (In hours & Minutes)

Time

 

14. Brief of observation and works done by the firm’s staff/ expert : (Detailed entry to
be made by firm’s staff in the Log-Book) :

15. Date & Time of complete restoration of system :
Date

Time (In hours & Minutes)

 

 

16. Total duration of Fault : days hours minutes

 

17, Remarks of in charge (if any):

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

ds WY fiom


--- Page 49 ---
. ~ Page 49 of 51

18. Remarks of visiting Engineer (of firm), if any:

 

Countersigned by Engineer-in-charge

Nore:
1. Each page of the Fault-Format must be signed by concerned staff.

2. Acopy of the Fault-Format must be sent to the firm, immediately by E-Mail after
restoration of fault.

 

a Cy 2m

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala


--- Page 50 ---
Page 50 of 51 ~ :

 

 

 

 

 

FORM-1
Details of the similar works in Hand 7
(On the letter head of the Con tractor)
SL Name of Description Date of | Remarks
No. Customer of work Start | completion
|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| |

 

——

 

 

Sign and Seal of Contractor

FORM-2
LG of work related Equipment, Machinery and tools
tackles etc unmediately available with the Bidder for
this w

__(On the Pere head of the Contractor)
Function/Purpose Remarks

     
 

 

  
  
  
    
   
 

 

 

 

 

Sign and Seal of Contractor

FORM-3
etails of technical l with the bidder who wi
be deployed forthis work
(On the letter head of the Contractor)
Whether Mode of Period for which
working employment & | the person is

  
  
  

  
   
  
   

Remarks

   
   
   
 
 

    
   
  

in Field Experience working with the
orin Bidder
Office

  

 

 

 

Sign and Seal of Contractor

Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

\


--- Page 51 ---
© Page 51 of 51

 
   

Se Jr i

FINANCIAL BID

Name of Work: “Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract for 14 (Fourteen)
numbers of Johnson make Lifts installed at NIT Agartala campus.

DNieT No.: 137/NITA/Estate Elect. /2022-23

 

  
   

     
    
    
    
   

   
   
  

    
   
 

 

 

CAMC Total Rate for
sl. ipti : CAMC one Amount
No. Description of Item Unit | Qnty. a Period donth ans)
1 | (Month) (In Rs.)
A B ¢ | b | e) ) eexe G H=FXG |

 

 

Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC) for 14 (Fourteen) Nos. Johnson
1 | Lifts Pvt. Ltd make Elevator installed around NIT Agartala campus area for the
| period of 3 (Three) years.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For Lifts with 1 MPS 7 |
1.01 Stops and G+6 Travel Each 2 36 72.00 11460.00 | 825120.00
For Lifts with 1 MPS 4 cE
1.02 Stops and G+3 Travel Each 5 36 180.00 9000.00 | 1620000.00
| af
For Lifts with 1 MPS 5
1.03 Stops and G+4 Travel Each 4 | 36 | 144.00 9000.00 | 1296000.00
For Lifts with 1 MPS 3
1.04 Stops and G+2 Travel Each 7870.00 | 566640.00
| For Goods Lift with 0.5
1.05 MPS and G4 Travel Each 9250.00 | 333000.00
Total amount of 3 Years (in figure)= Rs. 4640760.00
Quoted Rate in figure Excess/Less __%

The Financial Bid is available on the e- procurement website
://eprocure.gov.i re/a J
Kr

nt /

q G
Contractor For and on behalf of NIT Agartala

—
