
--- Page 1 ---
TSS Weare! Aes BrRae

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nitagartala.in

 

No.F.NITA.258( 19-DSAY/CATE-Serviee/2013-14/(Vol-IDf S95 Date: 24 /08/2024
NOTICE INVITING TENDER

On behalf of National Institute of Technology Agartala, bids are invited from experienced
and reputed mess service providers (contractors) through CPP portal
(https://www.eprocure.gov.in) for Mess services at six (6) hostel messes in NIT Agartala
Campus. Interested bidders are requested to submit their bids within the date & time mentioned
below fulfilling all the terms and conditions marked in the bid documents:

Name of the Service Bid Pre-Bid Bid Time & Date
Submission Conference Submission | of Openinmg
Start Date (Off line) end Date of Technical

online) bid

Mess Services at} 4.00 lakhs

Hostel Mess at (2.00 24/08/2024 03/09/2024 | 14/09/2024 | 16/09/2024

NIT Agartala lakh/mess) | at 5:00 PM at 11:00 am Up to 3:00 | at3:00 PM
PM

 

The bids (technical & financial) should be submitted online with cost of
EMD(refundable) mentioned in the tender document through CPP portal ie.
https://www.eprocure.gov.in before the last date & time of submission specified in tender
document. All details including tender document etc. will be available in the Institute website
www.nita.ac.in and also Central Public procurement Portal i.e. . https://www.eprocure.gov.in.

Kado
(Ans “alos|ony

NIT Agartala

SS

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin: - 799055
Tel. No. ; +91381 2346630 / 6629, Fax. No. : +91381 2346360, Url : www.nita.nic.in.


--- Page 2 ---
DP :

WZ National Institute of Technology Agartala
Ow Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
=. Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

TENDER
FOR
MESS SERVICE IN
HOSTEL
OF
NIT AGARTALA

 

 

 


--- Page 3 ---
Prairrest Beast SRR AT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

   

i

No.F.NITA.25(19-DSA)/CATE-SERVICE/2013-14/V ol-Ill Date: / /2024

NOTICE INVITING E-TENDER

[Technical Bid and Price Bid System — e-Procurement Mode]

 

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

Name of the Institute : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TE CHNOLOGY
AGARTALA

GST Number of the Institute : 16AAAGNO0550K1ZG

PAN of the Institute : AAAGNOSSOK

TAN of the Institute : SHLNO0719F

Institute Bank A/C No. - 030936141729 (IFSC: SBIN0011491) under SBI, NIT
Agartala Branch.

Name of procuring section : Dean (SW) section

Enquiry / Reference Number » No.F.NITA.25(19-DSA)/CATE-Service/2013-14/Vol-III

Some important dates:

     
  

   
 

  
  

     
 
 
 

O& /2024 Time: 5:00 PM

     

Uploading on CPP Portal
Department’s web-site

and | Date: 24 /

    

  
 
 
  

 

  
 
 
 

Time: 5:00 PM

Time: 11:00 AM

Time: 3:00 PM

Bid submission start date Date: DY / Of /2024

 
 
  
    

       
 
  

Date: 63 / OF /2024
\y / og /2024

Date) 14/04 /2024

Pre bid conference date

Bid submission end date
Opening of technical bid

A Pre-bid Conference will be held on scheduled date & time mentioned above. All prospective bidders are
requested to kindly submit their queries to the email address nitapurchasesection2@gmail.com at least two
days before Pre-Bid Conference:

      
      
  

Date:

 

  

Time: 3:00 PM

 

Details of E-tender document.

NIT Agartala, proposes to select caterers for Mess/Kitchen at six (6) hostel messes in NITA Campus and
invites bids from experienced and reputed service providers contractors in accordance with the terms and
conditions detailed in the bid document. Interested bidders are kindly requested to submit their offer with
prices within the time mentioned above fulfilling all the terms and conditions marked in i bid documents.

Registrar walhom

National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

     


--- Page 4 ---
assra BrearPraet AeA STATA
c
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

   
  
 

TENDER DOCUMENT (Two bid system)

Contents & Index

Contents & Index ee
7 gees ye yas ee

Technical bid of Tender Document and Notice Inviting Tender pms tea
General Instruction to the bidder and Condition of contract

Minimum Technical Criteria and clauses of contract

 

     
     
 
   
 
   

Brief Information & Definition of Tender Document.

   
   

  


--- Page 5 ---
Tee Were Aa STA
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

 

Checklist

The bidder shall verify his tender document before its submission and ensure that all the information is submitted
properly. Copy of documents should be numbered (page numbering) at the bottom. Numbering should be
started as Page No. I and continued; and should be properly attached to the Technical bid.

Requirement | Checklist Remarks Page No.
for ref.
Copy of registration/Trade License under “Municipal | Whether submitted | Yes/No |
Corporation/ Council / any State/Central Govt.
ity” should be submitted |
Copy of PAN registration Whether submitted | Yes/No | |_|
| 3 _| Copy of EPF registration = _[_Yes/No_| |
Yes/No _| |

| Copy of GST registration | Whether submitted Se
Copy of Experience Certificate mentioning years of Whether submitted Yes/No
service (minimum 6 yrs) No. of persons served with
quality of service received by procuring entity. | |
Copy of Tax audited balance sheet of last five years Whether submitted Yes / No
ie from F.Y 2018-2019 to F.Y 2022-2023
Solvency certificate to be issued by any Nationalized Whether submitted Yes/No
| Bank in original.

Affidavit on Rs. 200/- stamp paper duly sworn before | Whether submitted Yes/No
the Public Notary in original regarding Eligibility
criteria No. 12 and 13 of the Notice Inviting Tender
ae Pate Li
eal oP,

Pe Dae act

| Copy of authorization to sign the tender document Whether submitted

     

 

   

 
   

Copy of ESI registration ~ Whether submitted

 

     
 

—

  
  
 
  

     
   
      
     

  
 
 

EMD by means of RTGS/NEFT preferably, DD, BC &
BG in an acceptable form safeguarding the purchaser’s
interest in all respect as mentioned in the e-Tender
Notice
If the bidder is a partnership firm, copy of partnership
registration as per Partnership Act 1952 with proof of
registered office in India. If Partnership firm affidavit
authorizing the bidder to submit bids on behalf of

 
 
    

Partner

 

If the bidder is a Private/ Public Limited Company,
copy of MOA/ registration document of the company as
per Indian Companies Act 1956

 

5 | Price bid for each mess separately Whether properly | Yes/No
filled and verified

| Integrity Pact Whether submitted P Wes! No | |

    
 

17 | FSSAI obtained from Govt. of India Whether submitted | Yes/No |

18 | Copy of ISO Certificate Whether submitted Yes/No

Details of any other documents submitted:
L,
Z.

    

    

ae


--- Page 6 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

  
   

SECTION - 1
BRIEF INFORMATION AND DEFINITION
OF TENDER DOCUMENT


--- Page 7 ---
 

  

No.F.NITA.25(19-DSA)/CATE-SERVICE/2013-14/V ol-I Date: / /2024

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN - 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

   

BRIEF INFORMATION ABOUT TENDER

Name of work / service:

During vacation
minimum range
Tendering Process:

Duration of Contract:

Evaluation Process:

Call for providing Mess Services to the Mess of NIT-Agartala Hostels [Total 6
(Six) Messes at NIT-Agartala] are as following;
|. First Year Boys’ Mess (Approximate Capacity: 400-700 range);

2. Eastern Mess (Approximate Capacity: 400-700 range);
3. Northern Mess (Approximate Capacity: 400-700 range);
4. Southern Mess (Approximate Capacity: 400-700 range);
5. Vegetarian Mess (Approximate Capacity: 150-400 range):

6. Girl’s Hostel Mess (Approximate Capacity: 500-700 range);
as per academic plan number of student in each mess may fall below the

The bids (technical and financial) to be submitted through online mode only i,e
CPP portal i.e www.eprocure.gov.in before the last date & time of submission
specified in tender document.

Interested vendor/contractor/service provider may participate for one or more
than one mess of NIT-Agartala hostel in this tendering process. Each page of
this tender document shall be signed [Full Signature] by the Contractor/Service
Provider or its authorized signatory

The total period of contract will be three years. (1+1+1) However, selected
contractors shall provide catering service initially for a period of one year
which may be extended for another two years on yearly basis subject to the
satisfactory performance on the same terms & conditions and at the sole
discretion of the NITA.

NIT Agartala, reserves the right to increase the contract rate of per person per
day (basic rate without tax) after expiry of each contract year. The hike in rate
shall be 50% of hike in DA rate but subject to a maximum hike of 5%.

Both the Technical and Financial bids will be evaluated mess wise separately
by NITA. In the first stage, technical bids shall be opened and evaluated by the
concerned committee on the basis of eligibility criteria as per the tender
document. At the second stage, financial bids of only the technically acceptable
offers shall be opened for further evaluation and recommendations for
awarding the work order / contract.

In case of multiple L1 bidders for any one mess or all messes as mentioned
above following criteria shall be opted for evaluation.

a) Maximum numbers of Messes presently being run by the bidder and
Strength of diners in State/Central Govt./Autonomous/PSUs/Higher
education Institutes etc.

b) Maximum experience in State/ Central Govt. /Autonomous/ PSUs/
Higher education Institutes ete,

c) Maximum turnover in last five financial years (2018-19 to 2022-23).

d) Performance Reports

e) No. of employees fe


--- Page 8 ---
tessa BreanPrast Beast STAIR AT
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

 
   

Cost of Tender Document: The tender document is free of cost, which can be downloaded from
Institute’s website as well as CPP Portal (e-Procurement).

Date of Pre-Bid Meeting 2 / [2024 at 3.00 PM at Conference Hall of NITA.
Last date of submission of Tender Document : /  /2024 (up to 3:00 PM)
Date of opening of Technical Bid :  / (2024 at 3:00PM (if possible) at Conference Hall of NITA.

Bid security (EMD amount): INR 2,00,000/- (Rupees two lakh) foreach Mess _ (refundable) to be paid
through RTGS / NEFT preferably, DD, BC & BG in an acceptable form
safeguarding the NITA interest in all respect.

Security Deposit amount: The Contractor shall deposit Rs.15,00,000/- (Rupees fifteen Lakh only) for
each mess as interest free Security Deposit which shall be refunded after the
expiry of the agreement and after adjusting applicable deductions, if any.

Validity of Bid : 180 days from the date of opening of technical bid.

DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS

i. DEFINITIONS: The following terms shall have the meaning hereby assigned to them except
where the context otherwise requires:

a) NITA
Shall mean National Institute of Technology Agartala, P.O. - TE College, Jirania Dist: West
Tripura — 799046, represented by its Registrar or other authorized representatives.

b) CONTRACTOR / AGENCY / SERVICE PROVIDER
Shall mean the successful bidder to whom the contract has been awarded which expression shall
unless the context otherwise requires, include his legal heirs, executors, administrators and
assignees.

c) CONTRACT: CONTRACT AGREEMENT
Shall mean and include the following:
Notice inviting tender; tender document containing general instructions to the bidder and
conditions of contract; scope of work; clauses of contract etc., documents furnished by the bidder;
Letter of Intent; Work order; all related Acts and Rules specified in the tender document; and / or
any other correspondences of negotiations and the price bid, all related correspondence letters.

d) WORK / JOB / SERVICE
Of the Contractor shall mean and include preparing the food items, serving at mess and other
responsibilities as specified in the scope of service.

e) CONTRACT PRICE
Shall mean the sum / sums referred to in the contract agreement under Price bid or in the work
order/ letter of Intent.

f) MONTH
Shall mean calendar month.

g) MINIMUM WAGE / WAGES:
Shall mean the Minimum wage declared or ordered by the Central Government under Minimum
wages Act from time to time. The total Minimum wage shall include Variable Dearness Allowance
(V. D. A).


--- Page 9 ---
 

Issa Bren Preset Best SHAT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

SECTION — 2
(NOTICE INVITING TENDER)

INFORMATION OF TENDER DOCUMENT


--- Page 10 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

TECHNICAL BID

Name & Address of the Bidder (vendor/contractor/service provider)
Including valid phone/cell no and valid email ID


--- Page 11 ---
tesa SreanPrset Beast SRA
c
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

NOTICE INVITING TENDER FOR PROVIDING OF CATERING SERVICES AT NITA
HOSTELS

[TWO BIDS SYSTEM — TENDER]

National Institute of Technology Agartala (in short - NITA) is an autonomous Institute of the
Government of India under the Ministry of Education imparting technical education. National Institute of
Technology Agartala is one of the “Institutes of National Importance” declared under the NIT Act — 2007
(Act No.29 of 2007).

NITA wishes to engage service providers for providing Mess/Kitchen services in the Messes of NIT
Agartala Hostels. The mess service will be for the consolidated menus for students residing in different
hostels. In addition students would be free to taken add-on item from any of the mess on direct payment
basis. Indicative menus for different messes have been enclosed with this tender document which may be
reviewed/amended by the mess committee with the approval of Chief Warden of NITA Hostels.

 

The bids are invited through CPP portal (www.epuocure.gov.in) from the bidders of Indian
Nationals only.

1. BID SECURITY/ EMD: INR 2,00,000/- (Rupees two lakhs only) for each Mess through
RTGS/NEFT preferably, DD, BC & BG in an acceptable form safeguarding the NITA’ s interest in
all respect. If the bidder requesting EMD exemption, kindly attach copy of the valid NSIC
(Certificate should be visible, if not visible the bidder will be disqualified). If any bidder wants to
submit the EMD in the form DD/BC, should be drawn from any nationalized bank in favour of the
Registrar, NIT, Agartala payable at SBI, NIT Agartala, Branch. The original EMD instrument
other than e-transfer to be sent to the Tender Inviting Authority before the due date. The scanned
copy of the EMD to be uploaded in the CPP Portal along with the Technical Bid. The tender
received without EMD shall be rejected. The EMD amount will be refunded to the unsuccessful
bidders, after issuing work order to the successful bidder. The EMD shall be forfeited if a bidder
withdraws his bid during the period of validity specified.

2. SECURITY DEPOSIT (SD): The successful bidder should deposit an interest free security deposit
of Rs. 15,00,000 (Rupees fifteen lakh only) for each mess through RTGS/NEFT preferably, DD,
BC&BG in an acceptable form safeguarding the NITA’s interest in all respect. If any bidder wants
to submit the Security Deposit in the form DD/BC, should be drawn from any nationalized bank in
favour of the Registrar, NIT, Agartala payable at SBI, NIT Agartala, Branch. Security Deposit
shall be refunded within 60 days after the expiry of the agreement and after adjusting applicable
deductions, if any.

Procedure for submission of tenders:

The bids should be submitted through CPP portal (www.epuocure.gov.in) only. Bids submitted through any
other mode will not be accepted.

Bids submitted with incomplete information or information not in conformity with the Bi documents will
summarily be rejected. All the terms and conditions stated in the Bid Document are final in nature and
requests for any subsequent alterations/modifications will not be entertained. Submission of the bid(s)
amounts to acceptance of all terms and conditions laid down in the bid document.

&


--- Page 12 ---
GraPra Beart Stace
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

  
   

TECHNICAL BID:

 

The bidder should give all the details that are inserted in the Tender Document, details of their technical
soundness in carrying out similar work in State/Central Govt./Autonomous/PSUs/Higher education
Institute etc. with the certified copy of “Work/ Service Qualification Certificate” issued by the employer.
The profile containing the staff structure along with list of staff on regular pay role for last six months
should be furnished along with the copy of all related documents.

All information called for in the bid document should be furnished in the relevant formats in the
Tender document. If bidder wants to furnish more details, may be uploaded along with the Technical bid.

ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA

MINIMUM TECHNICAL CRITERIA REQUIREMENT FOR QUALIFYING IN THE
TECHNICAL BID

The prospective bidder should possess all the following minimum technical criteria for qualifying in
the technical bid:

 

1. The bidder should have minimum 06 years’ experience in having successfully providing mess
service ending 31 March 2024 to a strength having at least 400 persons on its dining strength in
State /Central Govt./Autonomous/PSUs/Higher education Institute etc. Experience only in
cafeteria/Snacks & beverage/Canteen will not be considered. (Proof to be attached).

2. Average Annual Turnover: The bidders average annual turnover (gross) in Catering Services in
State /Central Govt./Autonomous/PSUs/Higher education Institution during the last five financial
years i.e. from 2018-19 to 2022-23, duly tax audited by a Chartered Accountant, should not be less
than INR. 10 crores (INR ten crores only). Year in which no turnover is shown would also be
considered for working out the average. Copy of the Tax Audited financial statements of the
financial years 2018-19 to 2022-23should be attached.

3. Performance Certification: The bidders’ performance for each work completed in the last six
years and work in hand should be certified by the responsible official from the concerned
organization. The certificate should be enclosed with Technical bid. A copy of same to be
submitted.

4. The Bidder should have a valid Central License under Food Safety & Standards (Licensing and
Registration of Food Business) Regulations 2011 issued by Food Safety and Standards Authority of
India.

5. The firm should have ISO certification as applicable. The certificate should be submitted.
6. The bidder must possess GST registration. Copy of GST registration should be submitted

7. The bidder must possess PAN registration with Income Tax department. Copy of PAN
registration should be submitted.

8. The bidder must be registered under Employees Provident Fund (EPF) Act. Copy of EPF
registration should be submitted.

9. The bidder must be registered under Employees State Insurance (ESI) Act. Copy of ESI registration
should be submitted.

10. Financial soundness: Annual turnover of 10 crores and a solvency certificate for the amount not less
than Rs. 75.00 lakhs from a Scheduled bank should be furnished by the agency. The scanned copy
of Solvency certificate should be submitted along with Technical bid and original will be forwarded
to Institute within the due date and time for submission of bid. +s


--- Page 13 ---
assra BralrPreHel Ae STRAT
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

11. The bidder must be a firm/company/partnership/proprietorship firm registered under Indian
companies Act, 1956, and partnership Act 1932 and should have registered office in India.

12. The bidder should not have abandoned or suspended any awarded service of any organization out of
term. Affidavit to this effect should be submitted by the bidder as per the format provided in the bid
document. In the event of submission of false declaration, the vendor will be liable for actions as
per rules.

If any contractor suspends or abandons the operation of running the mess without any prior
information to NITA Authority , appropriate action shall be initiated apart from forfeiting the
security deposit and initiation of blacklisting of contractor.

13. The bidder or any of its partners/Directors should not have been blacklisted by any
agency/department or convicted of any offence or violation of any labour law etc. by any court or
authority having power to do so. Affidavit to this effect should be submitted by the bidder as per the
format provided in the bid document.

14. The bidder must disclose venues where bidder is running mess services contract, the tender
committee may visit any of the locations if required of selected bidders.

15. Bidder has to furnish undertaking that he/she will comply to all conditions in tender documents.
16. A pre-bid meeting may be held within 10 days of tender uploading.

17. Bids with unrealistic and hypothetical submission may lead to rejection.

18. Bidder should provide Staff Structure for engagement, if he/she gets the work order.

The NITA shall evaluate the Technical bid strictly on the basis of eligibility criteria stipulated in the Tender
document/notice inviting tender. The decision of the NITA in this regard is final and binding to all
concerned. No correspondences from the bidder in respect of decision of the NITA on evaluation of the
technical bid shall be entertained.

PRICE BID:

Price bid as per BOQ to be uploaded in the CPP portal (https://www.eprocure.gov.in). Bidder has to
submit a scanned copy of Price Bid in PDF in line with the BOQ on Company letter head. The prices filled
in the e-procurement site will be treated final and shall be binding to the bidder.

The financial quote should satisfy all the requirements and obligations under Contract labour
(Regulation and Abolition) Act 1970; Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Rules 1971; Minimum
Wages Act — 1948; Payments of Wages Act 1936; Payment of Bonus Act 1965; Payment of Gratuity Act
1972; Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act — 1952 and Amendment Act 1988;
Employees State Insurance Act.

Price bids of only the technically acceptable/qualified offers should be opened in the presence of
available technically qualified bidders. The opening of price bid(s) will be intimated to successful
technically qualified bidders.

The bidder should inspect the hostels premises & mess environment and get all related
information from the Dean (SW)/Chief Warden Office before quoting the rate(s) as per tender
document. If the dates mentioned above falls on any incidental holiday/strike, then the next working
day will be the date fixed in place of the date falling on incidental holiday/strike. Any further details
required may be obtained from the Purchase officer/Dean (SW) of NIT-Agartala during the office
hours.

NIT-Agartala reserves the right to award not more than two hostel messes to a particular bidder/
service provider. However, NIT-Agartala also reserves the right to award more than two hostel messes in
exceptional circumstances. The decision of Competent Authority for awarding of hostel mess to any service
provider is final and binding on the service provider.

: *


--- Page 14 ---
Waitraat Beast SRA
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 
 
  
   

TERMS CONDITIONS OF TENDER

1. Subject to the NITA’s right to accept any tender/reject any or all the tenders, the NITA will
award the contract to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be substantially responsive to the
tender document and who has offered evaluated acceptable Tender Price, provided further that
the bidder has the capability and resources to carry out similar type of contracts effectively. Bids
of those bidders, who in the opinion of the NITA do not satisfy the above requirements, will not be
considered.

2. All Statutory tax deductions at source (TDS)/GST connected with the contract shall be made from
the contractor’s bill at the rates in force from time to time. Any tax omitted for deduction shall be
deducted from the subsequent bills/security deposits.

3. The price quoted by the bidder should be INCLUSIVE of all taxes including GST and all other
statutory obligations including any fee to be paid to the Civic Authorities.

4. The successful bidder shall execute an agreement on a non-judicial stamp paper/document of
Rs.200/- (Rupees two hundred only) to be supplied by the bidder within 15 days from the date of
intimation of acceptance of the Contract Order. Failure on the part of the bidder to execute the
agreement within 15 days with NITA will entail cancellation of the Contract Order and forfeiting
the Bid Security amount in full without entertaining any correspondence or any reasons whatsoever.

5. The bidder is advised to visit the location/site/NITA and acquaint itself with the operational system.
The cost of visiting the site shall be borne by the bidder. It shall be deemed that the bidder has
undertaken a visit to the location and is aware of the operational conditions prior to submission of
his bid. Prior intimation of the same may be given before such visit.

6. The bidder shall not make or cause to be made any alteration, erasure or obliteration to the text of
the tender document. If found, bid document is liable to be rejected.

7. In case the bidder has any doubt about the meaning of anything contained in the tender document,
may be clarified during the Pre-bid meeting.

8. Bids and all accompanying documents shall be in English. In case any accompanying documents
are in other languages, it should be accompanied by an English version. The English version shall
prevail in matters of interpretation.

9. The bidder shall quote his rates in Indian rupees.

10. Emphasis/Reliance will be given to ability & competence and past record of bidder in providing
high quality service.

11. The bidder must be ready to commence service within 15 days of awarding of contract.

12. Institute has all the rights to modify/alter the conditions without assigning any reasons for the
same on mutual consent basis with the contractor.

13. Conditional bids/offers shall be summarily rejected.

14, A bidder signing the whole bid document must specify whether he/she is signing as

a. Asole proprietor of the firm or constituted attorney of such proprietor;

b. A partner/ managing partner of a partnership firm. In this case, he/she must have a clear legal
authority to sign for the firm.

c. Managing Director /Constituted attorney/Authorized signatory, if for a Company.

15. If an individual makes the tender, it shall be signed with his full name and his complete address
shall be given. If it is made by partnership firm, it shall be signed by all the partners or the
authorized signatory who shall sign his own name and give the name and address of each partner of
the firm and attach a copy of ‘Power of Attorney’ with the tender authorizing him to sign on behalf
of the other partners. A certified copy of the ‘Registered Partnership Deed’ shall also be submitted
along with the tender. In case the tender is made by or on behalf of a company incorporated under
the Companies Act 1956, it shall be signed by the Managing Director or by one of the Directors
duly authorized on his behalf and shall include a copy of the 'Power of Attorney’ with the tender. A
certified copy of the registered Deed shall also be submitted along with the tender.

eine

 


--- Page 15 ---
 

16.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

TsSsra BMratirPrel Beast STIL ACT
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

The NITA will declare a firm/bidder ineligible either indefinitely or for a specified period of time at
the sole discretion of the NITA for the award of contract/participating in the tenders if at any time
the NITA determines that he has furnished false information/engaged in corrupt or fraudulent
practices. Such information if required will be shared with other institutes of repute.

Forfeiture of EMD/Bid security and Security Deposit: The EMD/Bid security and Security

Deposit shall be forfeited in case of any breach of terms and conditions of the contract.

Prior to the expiry of the period of validity of the tender, the NITA will notify the successful bidder
in writing that his/her tender has been accepted. On receipt of this letter, the successful bidder will
have to enter into the agreement. The cost of the non-judicial stamp paper/document paper shall be
borne by the contractor. If the bidder fails to execute the agreement within the specified time, the
bid security shall be forfeited to the NITA in full and the tender will be rejected. If as a result of
such measures due to the default of the bidder, any loss to the NITA results, the same will be
recovered from the bidder by suitable course of action including legal proceedings.

Mode of measurement of work/service: The service carried out shall be measured as per the unit
mentioned in the Price bid.

The minimum rate per person per day for each mess is INR 130/- + Applicable GST. Any rate
quoted below this rate shall be summarily rejected.

**All taxes and duties will be paid extra and such amounts of mandatory/statutory taxes &
duties shall be explicitly mentioned in BOQ while submitting bid.

The evaluation of technical bids shall be based upon technical criteria and financial bids upon the
financial criteria. The detail is elaborated as follows.

A) The experience of the bidder (As per formats), Trade licence, FSSAI Licence, ISO certification
etc. and other relevant documents shall constitute the parameters for tech. evaluation.

B) Average annual turnover (As per format), Solvency certificate (As per format), proof of payment
of GST (As per format) , proof of Payment of Income Tax (As per format )

Balance sheet detail (as per format) and other relevant documents/information shall be considered
for financial bid evaluation. This may please be noted that though minimum price is fixed but that
does not mean that lowest price shall be considered. The successful bidder(s) shall be considered as
those whose performance in the mentioned criteria in (B) stands well ahead of others.

A) Bidder who quoted below the said prefixed minimum standard rate for serving the menu items
(Schedule B/Price bid) per person per month will be treated as disqualified and the price bid of said
vendor of bidder will be rejected. However the fixed rate per person per month for the menu will
remain unchanged but menu items may be changed as per availability of seasonal Veg and Non veg
items within the limit of approved no. of items with consultation of hostel mess committee /NITA
Hostel committee. Vendor should not repeat vegetable items more than two meals per occasions in
a week. Decision of the NITA Authority in this regards is final and binding on bidder.

B) If the situation arises that more than one bidder quote the same rate and agreed to work on the
same rate, in that circumstance, NITA authority can decide the total number of vendor/service
provider/contractor to retain in the campus.

C) If there is no bidder for any mess, under the exceptional circumstances; NITA authority can offer
that particular mess service to the existing bidder in lesser price by selecting out of them.

D) The rate quoted by the bidder valid for 03 (three) years. NIT Agartala, reserves the right to
increase the contract rate of per person per day (basic rate without tax) after expiry of each
contract year. The annual hike in rate shall be limited to 50% of hike in DA rate of Govt. of India
but subject to a maximum hike of 5% as approved by mess committee under Chief Warden. The

hike will be non-cumulative.
a
14


--- Page 16 ---
     

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.
29.

30.

31.

325
33.

34.

35,

aes SENPreHy Beat STAT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN - 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

E) Base price for Breakfast, Lunch, Evening Snacks & Dinner (Detailed as per Menu given in
Section 9 of this tender document) for each student for all hostels should not be below Rs.
“130.00°/Day (Basic Price)

F) Apart from basic menu bidder/service provider may open a separate food counter for supply of
additional food items / menu on payment basis. Rate chart/cart along with quantity of food items
should be displayed at the counter. The rate of the items will be fixed in consultation with the
respective Mess committee and Committee of Wardens headed by Chief Warden.

G) Bidder should not sell the standard packed food items more than the MRP rate.

The successful bidder shall cater items mentioned in the menu to the students of the NITA Hostels
at the rate specified under “Schedule B/Price bid”. He/She shall not collect or charge any other
amount from the students. Any additional items supplied to the students, other than the specified in
Menu, shall be charged separately as decided by the NITA Hostel authority.

If any of the particulars provided in the Bid are subsequently found to be untrue or false, the
Bidder/contractor shall be liable to be adequately penalized in the manner, the Institute may deem
appropriate including termination of the contract itself and/or at the discretion of the Institute,
full/partial forfeiture of the contractor's EMD/security deposit.

Any effort by a bidder to influence the Institute in the bid evaluation or in any other manner is likely
to cause summarily rejection of the bid.

The Institute shall have the right to negotiate the financial offers submitted as aforesaid, if the
Institute reckons the financial offer inadequately high or unreasonable. The Institute may further
negotiate the financial offer submitted on higher side by any bidders vis-a-vis the lowest bid offered
by any of the bidders, to enable the Institute to select the service provider which is more
economical.

As the catering service involves student health, relaxation of prior experience and turnover for the
start-ups is not applicable with reference to clause 3 of O.M No.F.20/2/2014-PPD (Pt.).

Contractor shall provide light food to the sick students during his/her theirsickness period and
no extra charge will be paid for the same

NITA will Not be Liable for any Medical attention, Injury/ Loss of life of mess or any other
Workers engaged by the contractor in the preparation, transportation of food items to dining
halls and Other services as per the contract. A suitable Insurance coverage for all Caterers Staff
shall be arranged by the Contractor at his/her cost towards compensation of any loss to their
workmen as per legal provisions

Caterer must supply special dinner/lunch on selected datesduring each year without any extra
cost. The Caterer is required to provide special items during main festival days without any
additional cost

Four (4) gala dinners have to be arranged by the caterer per annum. The caterer can charge INR 50/-
PER PLATE EXTRA OVER AND ABOVE THE NORMAL RATE FOR SUCH DINNER.

The employees of the  caterershould wear uniform alongwith cap, headgear,
gloves, mask (in dining area), ID cards (with name), etc.

Mess workers and cooks should be healthy and medically fit. The caterer should ensure that all
the employees are free from communicable diseases. Medical Certificate to this effect should
be available for inspection by the authorities. If any mess worker is found medically unfit,
he/she may not be given permission to continue his/her duties and mess contractor has to
replace them immediately without fail. All the person employer in the messes should adhere to
the hostel rules prescribed for the inmates

At any time prior to the due date for submission of bids, the Institute may, for any reason,
whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by a prospective bidder,
modify the bidding documents by issuing a corrigendum. All prospective bidders are expected
to visit NIT Agartala website (www.nita.ac.in) & CPP Portal (www.eprocure.gv.in) before
formulating and submitting their bids to take cognizance of the corrigendum, if any.

&


--- Page 17 ---
  
     

36.

af.

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44,
45.

assra SrenPresl Beast SARA
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

NIT Agartala employee and/ or their dependents are not eligible to submit their offer against this
tender. Further, a bidder should submit a Near Relative Certificate in this regard as given in
Annexure

Staff strength in each category of Mess workers viz. Mess Manager, Supervisors, Cook, Asst. Cook,
Servers, Helpers, Cleaners etc. deployed by the caterer should be optimum and finalized in
consultation with NIT Agartala. NIT Agartala reserves the right to order additional staff if services
are found inadequate. For additional strength of students in any dining hall, minimum staff has to be
increased proportionately. Mobile phone numbers of Manager & Supervisors should be displayed in
dining hall.

The contractor will not be permitted to use the hostel mess and its infrastructure for any other
Commercial activity not relating to NIT Agartala.

Notwithstanding anything contained in the terms and conditions, NIT Agartala shall be at liberty to
terminate the contract by giving 30 days clear notice without assigning any reason. However,
Caterer may terminate his/her contract by giving 60 days clear notice. In this case, caterer will be
debarred for participating in further mess tender process of NIT Agartala Hostels for 03 years

NIT Agartala will have full powers to impose penalty to caterers for not fulfilling any
requirements.

The Caterer is required to maintain the Details of all his employees / Mess Workers. This
information along with their photographs shall be submitted to the Office in the format that may be
prescribed. Criminal antecedents must be verified and Non-conviction certificate of the mess
workers to be maintained and submission for verification.

All the caterers are strictly advised to pay off all the dues to the local vendorsregularly for all the
purchases

It will be the sole responsibility of the bidder alone, to execute the entire contract on his own.
Caterers should not assign or sublet the contract.

Purchase preference will be given to MSE firm/company as per MSME Norms, Govt.of India
National Institute of Technology, Agartala is following and abide with the Public Procurement
(preference to make in India), Order 2017, DIPP, MoCI order No. P-45021/2/2017-B.E.II dated 15"
June 2017 and subsequent amendments to the order. Accordingly preference will be given to the
Make in India products while evaluating the bids, however, it is the sole responsibility of the
bidders to specify the product quoted by them is of Make in India product along with respective
documentary evidence as stipulated in the aforesaid order in the technical bid itself.

4 rahe

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 18 ---
astra SreNPrasT AeA STATA
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

  
   

SECTION - 3

General Instruction to the bidder
&
Conditions of Contract


--- Page 19 ---
 
 
  
   

WMeaiPrat Bes SRA
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO THE BIDDER (TO BE FOLLOWED MANDATORILY):

1.

i

11.

12.

14.

The work order contract is for providing Cooking and serving services to the students of NITA
Hostels/authorized guests of NITA. The decision of the NITA with regard to the
quality/performance of job shall be final and binding on the contractor.

On accepting the tender, the contractor shall intimate the name(s) of his accredited representative
who would be supervising the work and would be responsible for taking instructions for carrying
out the job. He shall also furnish the details of workers/ employees engaged by him under this
contract. The contractor will not be entitled for any compensation for any loss suffered by him/her
on account of delays in commencing or executing the work/service, whatever the cause for such
delays may be.

The contractor is the employer of all the workers/labourers/employees engaged under this contract
and they shall not be treated as employees of the NITA.

NIT-Agartala reserves the right to select more than one service provider to run its messes.

Licence fee: The license fee for utilising the kitchen and mess hall to be paid by the bidder to NITA
@ Rs. 2500/-(Rupees two thousand only) per mess.

The license fee shall be paid at the “NITA Hostel Account” within 15 days from the date of
acceptance of the contract by the contractor.

Two qualified/experienced Managers should be engaged dedicatedly for each mess in two shifting
duty (6AM-2PM; 2PM-10PM) to supervise all activities like cooking, cleaning, students mess off,
mess card arrangement, feedback of students regarding food, Mess worker activity, serving of
foods, timing of breakfast, lunch and dinner, etc. These managers will work under the
contractor/service provider.

Female worker is not allowed in the mess of boys’ hostel and Male worker is not allowed in the
mess of girls’ hostel at any circumstances.

Equipment and utensils required for cooking & serving will be under scope of bidder. He/She must
ensure the required quantity is purchased and installed in kitchen. Any shortfall/inadequacy if
noticed by mess committee needs to be fulfilled by the bidder within 48-72 hours. Cooks should
have minimum 5 years’ experience.

Two numbers of Water Jugs (minimum volume: 1 litre) must be kept on each dining table of mess

during breakfast, Lunch and Dinner. One service person should be engaged to fill up the empty
Water Jug during breakfast, Lunch and Dinner time.

Mode of bill payment: The contractor shall submit his bills on a monthly basis to the Chief warden,
NITA with the counter signature of the Warden or In charge of the hostel for arranging payment.
Payment shall be normally made within 30 days from the receipt of bill by means of bank
cheque/account transfer. 70% Payment will be made in advance, remaining 30% will be adjusted
after submission of Bill by the Contractor from second month onwards.

Income tax shall be deducted at source at the rate in force from time to time from the contractor's
bill. If the contractor is liable to pay the service tax in connection with this contract, then the
contractor shall pay the Service tax directly to the concerned authority and submit the remittance
details to the NITA for reimbursement of service tax paid.

_Electricity and water consumption charges: The electricity and water consumption charges shall

be paid by the contractor as per the sub-meter reading or as fixed by the NITA Hostels in the case
of meter failure, within 10 days from the date of receipt of the bill from the Estate Engineer of the
Institute. In case of delayed payment by more than 7 days, the Director/Dean (SW) reserves to take
fine at the rate of Rs.50 per day from the due date to date of payment or terminate the contract and
adjust the amount payable by the contractor from the security deposit.

NIT-Agartala shall provide a list of normal holidays and vacations in each semester to the
contractor for assessing and providing the catering service to the hostellers residing during holidays
and vacations. Mess will be closed during winter and summer vacation as per academic calendar.
Dean (SW)/Director of NIT-Agartala has power to instruct the mess operator to run one/two mess

+


--- Page 20 ---
  
     

15.

19.

20.
Hostel mess service should not use plastic and aluminium utensils for cooking/ serving.
22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

2i.

28.

teste Warr Aes SHKAA
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

during vacation, if it is really required for the students. If the contractor denies following this
instruction, appropriate action will be initiated by the NITA authority.
Mess timing must be strictly adhered as following:

a. Breakfast :7.00AM to 9.00AM

b. Lunch : 12.00PM to 2.00PM
c. Evening Tea : 05.30 PM to 6.30 PM
d. Dinner : 7.30PM to 9.00PM

_ Food may not be served before or after the prescribed timing. Sometimes Hostel Authority asks for

time alteration for students program that is to be followed by the mess contractor without fail.

Students will enrol their names in a particular mess for one semester. Students are allowed to

change the mess in every next semester based on their choice. This condition is not applicable for
First Year Boys’ Mess and Girls’ Hostel Mess.

. Separate counter for Veg. and Non-Veg. food items along with separate enclosure for utensils to be

provided in Girls Hostel mess.

Students may not avail the mess services at their choice up to 08 days (maximum) in a calendar
month.

Hostel mess service provider should install CCTV Camera in all the messes.

The bidder should submit the minimum staff structure required as Cook, Helper, Service Person,
Cleaner etc. in each mess to run the hostel mess as per the mess timing.

The bidder will make necessary arrangements for accommodating and transporting all manpower
deployed by him/her to ensure timely mess operation to serve meals. Only essential manpower for
breakfast service may be allowed in mess blocks on rental basis on approval. The rent may be
decided by Dean (P&D)/Dean (SW) on case to case in consultation with the Director, NITA

The contractor shall ensure that cooked and uncooked food is stored properly and no stale food is
served. In case of any food poisoning, the contractor shall be held solely responsible and will be
penalized beside legal action.

The raw material used for cooking can be checked by NITA officials/Mess committee at any time
and if substandard/unauthorized material is found, the contractor shall be penalized at the discretion
of NITA and contractor shall have to abide by it.

The workmen employed by the contractor shall be directly supervised and controlled by the
contractor, and shall have no relation whatsoever with National Institute of Technology, Agartala.
NIT-Agartala shall have no power to control or supervise such workmen or to take any action
against them except as permissible under law. Such workmen shall also not have any claim against
NIT-Agartala for service or regularization of service by virtue of being employed at NIT-Agartala
against any temporary or permanent post at NIT-Agartala.

The contractor shall submit to NITA a list of all workers engaged to carry out the contract work,
indicating name, age, home address, qualifications, etc. and would also intimate as and when any
change take place. The contractor should provide complete details of the worker and police
verification report of each employee.

The contractor/service provider shall not engage any child labour to carry out the work under this
contract.

29. All the workers engaged by the contractor for carrying out tasks under this contract, shall be

30.

deemed to be the employees of the contractor only. The contractor shall be solely responsible for
their conduct, wages, fringe benefits, conduct, duty roster, leave records, relievers etc. The
contractor shall also provide its Workers photo-identity cards which shall be checked by NITA as
and when necessary.

It is compulsory for the Mess Contractor to take the following hygiene and cleaning measures: (a)
Cleaning of the kitchen area twice a day including the store room, (b) Soaking the vessels with hot
water at the end of the day, (c) Crockery to be washed with hot water using detergent, (d) Proper

cleaning of refrigerators, and water coolers, once a week, (¢) Periodic spraying of Insecticides, (f)
19


--- Page 21 ---
 

31.

32.

33.

34.

a

36.

37.

38.

39.

40,

41.

42.

Grapes Bears Sra
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN - 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

Cleaning the dining tables with detergent and water after breakfast, lunch and dinner of every day.
(g) Thorough cleaning of wash basins and wash room with detergent at every day. The bidder must
use cleaning reagents which are FSSAI compliant,].

The catering staff engaged by the Contractor shall: (a) Show professional courteous behavior at all
times, (b) Staff must wear neat and clean uniform, aprons, gloves etc. (c) Catering staff can not
smoke bidis, cigarettes or take alcoholic drinks on the campus and nor they are allowed to chew
pan, gutkha, tobacco items.

As regards quality or materials and preparation, the contractor shall ensure that: (a) Food
ingredients, additives and materials must be of best quality available in the market, (b) Vegetables,
bread, fruits, chicken and other such perishable items should be purchase fresh from the market on
daily basis, (c) Contractor shall take meticulous care to provide clean and quality food in all
preparations, (d) The menu decided by the NIT-Agartala Authority/mess committee should be
invariably followed. The committee members shall have free access to inspect the kitchen; service
counters and dining hall at any time on any working day and (e) Waste and garbage disposal should
be done properly in a proper place on regular basis.

The contractor is not allowed to utilize the NIT-Agartala campus premises and facilities of the
Institute to serve other client, other than NIT-Agartala students, faculties, staff and authorized
visitors of NIT-Agartala.

If the contractor fails to serve food for Hostel students on any day without prior permission of NIT-
Agartala Authority, in such position authority will make such alternative arrangements and the cost
incurred on such arrangement shall be recovered with huge penalty and further disciplinary action
may be initiated against that contractor.

The contractor should undertake that any act of omission or commission including theft, by his staff
shall be his sole responsibilities and further that he/she would compensate the Institute immediately,
any loss or damage or theft occurring on account of his staff individually or collectively.

Hostel Authority of NITA/Member of Mess Committee will have the right to enter the
Mess/Kitchen/Store at any time for inspection and quality check without any prior notice.

The contractor shall not remove any fixtures of the building including water supply, sanitary and
electrical fittings or any property of NITA. If any damages are caused, the cost towards making
good the damage will be borne by the contractor or the amount may be recovered from the
contractor by any means along with issuing a memo mentioning the black list vendor for NIT-
Agartala.

All electrical fittings and water supply fittings will be furnished by the Institute at the time of
handing over the Mess. All other subsequent replacements of fittings such as tube lights, bulbs and
other electrical fittings, taps, gate valves and other water supply fittings shall be made by the
contractor at his own cost.

The contractor, at his/her own cost shall install any extra fittings other than that furnished by NIT-
Agartala after obtaining the written approval of the NITA.

The contractor shall at his/her own cost regularly clean kitchen premises/ Dining area/ Sewer line of
Kitchen/Bathroom adjacent to kitchen/Wash basin area etc.

The contractor shall vacate the Mess and its premises in good condition immediately after the
expiry of the contract agreement. In case of failure to this, the contractor is liable to pay damages
for use and occupation of the premises at the rate of five times the license fee for the first three
months and ten times the licence fee thereafter till he vacates the premises. At the same time, legal
action shall also be initiated by the NIT-Agartala to evict the contractor.

The contractor shall give an acknowledgement for the materials handed over from NIT-Agartala.
All such materials shall be returned in same/good/running condition to the NIT-Agartala while

vacating the Mess.
20 z


--- Page 22 ---
    

zresyao SrenPraet Bea SATA
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

43. The possession of the premises occupied by the contractor under this agreement shall continue with
the Institute/NITA Hostels and the permission given under this agreement is only to occupy and use
the premises for the purpose for which this agreement is made.

44. If required tiffin system as per orders will also be requested to be provided by the bidder.

45. If required bidder must be ready to run a night canteens as per request received from the mess
committee with the approval of NITA authority.

46. The service provider shall arrange for cooking and serving of Vegetarian and Non Vegetarian food
items separately and it is a must. In no case, the Vegetarian food items shall be cooked at the same
place nor will be mingled with the Non-Vegetarian food items being cooked and served. The
violation of this clause shall be discretion. The penalty and/or fine imposed by the institute in this
regard shall not be subject to question under any circumstance, whatsoever.

47. Contractor will have to install sufficient number of “FLY CATCHER MACHINE” in mess and
cafeteria at their own cost. If not installed after commencement of service by 30 days, NIT-Agartala
hostel authority can impose penalty with immediate effect. Further NITA may install the machine
and amount will be recovered from the vendor.

48. Ready Stock of Dry Food Items should be made advance for next 15 days and Ready Stock of
Vegetables should be made for next three days without fail. If this is not followed/maintained by the
contractor/mess operator, Authority of NIT Agartala has right to terminate the contract with
immediate effect.

49. The contractor will be responsible for efficient disposal of waste generated out of kitchen, cleaning
of kitchen and bathrooms.

50. Penalties for violation or rules, terms and conditions:

As and when Hostel Authority proposes a fine, they will inform the representative of the Contractor,
and the fine will be imposed by the Institute on recommendation of Dean (SW)/Director of NIT-
Agartala. The Contractor shall be fined for not adhering to the agreed terms as per the following
rules:

i. Apenalty of Rs. 2000/- will be imposed for the following cases:

a) Each instance of generating a bill for any illegal transaction b) Each instance of complaint of
an insect/foreign object cooked along with food or found in food c) improper cooking of
food item d) no availability of foods within mess timings and waiting time is more than 15
minutes for lunch or dinner, and 10 minutes for breakfast or tea & snacks e) any violation
of Green Office directives (related to act of harming the eco-friendly drive at the Institute)

ii. A penalty of Rs. 5000/- will be imposed for the following cases:

a) Non-availability of complaint register on the counter/discouraging students from registering
complaints b) three or more complaints within a two-week period of insects and/or foreign
object cooked along with food or found in any food item c) each instance of complaint of a
foreign object that is deemed dangerous/unhygienic/unadulterated by the Hostel Authority
d) three or more complaints of unclean utensils/hygiene failure in within a two-week period
e) changes in menu of any meal without permission of Hostel Authority f) each instance of
unprofessional behavior (lack of personal hygiene of staff g) consumption of prohibited
substances h) spitting of gutkha /pan masala etc i) misbehavior by workers j) unclean
utensils etc. as inspected by the Hostel Authority, etc. k) any instance of mixing of Veg and
Non-Veg food either during preparation or serving or with respect to the utensils 1) any
improper disposal or dumping of waste including dumping solid waste in drains m) misuse
of any part of mess premises by mess staff, n)not maintaining Mess Card System /
Biometric attendance of the students on regular basis and negligence by worker etc., 0)
absence of proprietor or his representative empowered to take decision from meetings of
Hostel Authority on due invitation (which will be held approximately once every month).

21


--- Page 23 ---
asa Ferrer Beast SIA
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

  
  
 

iii, A Penalty of Rs. 10,000 will be imposed for the following cases :
a, Using of brands not mentioned in the contract without prior permission and/or adulteration
shall invoke a hefty fine beyond the limit of any fine mentioned above and decided by the
Hostel Authority. :
b. Any failure/delay in remitting the monthly Infrastructural/Convenience Charges by the due
date would attract the penalty with high rate of interest as decided by the Dean
(SW)/Director.

iv. For any rules stated in the agreement: a) First violation of the rule implies fine as per the rule.
However, in exceptional cases where the nature of violation is of serious nature, the Hostel
Authority may propose higher fines than those indicated above b) In subsequent cases the fine
will be calculated at n x amount, where n= Instance of default c) If any of the above rules are
violated 10 times within one quarter (taken as a total) the Contractor would be liable for
automatic disqualification, and the contract may be terminated. However, this is not the only
criteria for termination. The Institute reserves the right to terminate the contract at any time,

considering the frequency and seriousness of the violations.

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

22


--- Page 24 ---
rssra BrealiPraet Ae STRAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046

Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

  
   

SECTION — 4

MINIMUM CLAUSES OF CONTRACT

23


--- Page 25 ---
 
 
  
   

Tessa BERT Beat STAC
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN - 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in
CLAUSES OF CONTRACT

CLAUSES YEAS
CONTRACTOR IS THE EMPLOYER OF ALL WORKERS ENGAGED BY HIM:

All statutory payments in connection with the employment of the Workmen under this contract shall
be borne by the Contractor. The contractor is the employer of all the workers engaged under this
contract and they shall not be treated as employees of the NITA.

The contractor should take all required registrations and pay premiums correctly to labour welfare
funds; ESI; EPF ete introduced / instituted by the Union Government and Government of Tripura
from time to time.

PERIOD OF VALIDITY OF TENDER

The tender shall remain valid for acceptance for a period of 180 days from the date of opening of
the tenders. If any tenderer withdraws his tender before the said period or makes any modifications
in terms and conditions of the tender, then the NITA has the liberty to forfeit the Earnest Money
Deposit.

DISBURSEMENT OF PAYMENT:

The wages to the workers engaged under this contract shall be disbursed only in the presence of the
NITA authorities. In no case, the wage will be less than the Minimum wage declared by the Central
Government from time to time.

SUB-LETTING:

No part of the contract shall be sublet without the written permission of the “NITA” nor shall
transfers be made by "Power of Attorney” authorizing others to carry out the work.
ASSIGNMENT:

The Contractor shall not assign the contract or any part thereof or any benefit or interest therein or
thereunder without the written permission of the NITA.

SUB-CONTRACTING:

The Contractor shall not sub-contract any part of the Work without the written consent of the
“NITA" and such consent, if given, shall not relieve the Contractor from any liability or obligation
under the contract and the Contractor shall be responsible for all the acts, defaults and neglects of
the sub-contractor, his agents, employees or workmen fully as if they were the acts, defaults or
neglects of the Contractor or his agents, servants or workmen.

DURATION OF CONTRACT:

The contract will be for a period of (1+1+1) years. NIT-Agartala reserves the right to select more
than one vendor/contractor/service provider to run its messes. NIT-Agartala also reserves the right
to stop the mess service at any moment with 7 days’ notice period in any particular mess of NITA
during the contract period depending on requirement of the Institute and/or performance of the
vendor/contractor/service provider.

INSURANCE:

The successful contractor shall take out Contractor's All Risk (CAR) insurance policy and a copy of
the policy shall be deposited with the NITA as per the rules in force.

INDEMNITY BOND:

The Contractor shall indemnify the NITA against all claims for loss or damages or compensation
due to the negligence of the Contractor in performing his responsibilities and duties and that may be
made by his employees or users or third parties.

The Contractor shall indemnify against all losses and claims for injuries, death or damages to any
person or property whatsoever which may arise out of or in consequence of the contractor’s work
and against all claims, demands, proceedings, damages, costs, charges, expenses, whatsoever in

respect thereof in relation thereto.
24 we


--- Page 26 ---
 
 
  
   

12.

13.

14,

15.

16.

17.

Gratirea Beas SHAT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND CONDITIONS

The contractor shall be deemed to have satisfied himself before tendering as to the correctness of his
offer for the service and the terms and conditions of the contract.

REMOVAL OF WORKMEN:

The "NITA" shall be at liberty to object to and require the Contractor to remove forthwith from the
work any person employed by the Contractor in or about the operation or maintenance of the Work
who in the opinion of the "NITA" misconducts himself or is incompetent or negligent in the proper
performance of his duties or whose employment is otherwise considered by the "NITA" to be
undesirable and such person shall be replaced by the Contractor without delay by a competent
substitute approved by the "NITA".

COMMUNICATIONS TO BE IN WRITING:

All references, communications, correspondences made by the "NITA"/ the NITA's representative
or the Contractor in connection with the Work shall be in writing and no reference, communication,
or complaint which is not in writing, shall be entertained.

USE OF PREMISES:

The Contractor shall not occupy any land, building belonging to or in the possession of the “NITA"
without prior approval of the NITA.

LABOUR; LABOUR RULES:

In respect of all labour (directly or indirectly) employed by the Contractor, the Contractor shall
comply with the provisions of the Contract labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act 1970, Contract
Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Rules 1971, Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act,
Minimum Wages Act - 1948, Payments of Wages Act 1936, Payment of Bonus Act 1965, Payment
of Gratuity Act 1972 and any amendments thereof and all legislation and rules of the State and/or
Central Government or other local authorities, framed from time to time, governing the protection
of health, sanitary arrangements, wages, welfare and safety for labour employed on Work and for
bonus, EPF retirement benefits, retrenchment / lay off, compensation etc. The rules and the other
statutory obligations with regard to minimum wages, welfare and safety measures, maintenance of
register etc. will be deemed to be part of the Contract. Violation of any of these shall be deemed as
violation of the clause / clauses of this contract.

DETAILS OF PAYMENT MADE TO BE SUBMITTED:

The contractor shall submit to the NITA every succeeding month, the details of salary of previous
month given to his/her employees with copy of salary slip, details of cheque given towards salary,
EPF, ESI, bonus etc. or the copy of the receipt obtained from the staff, as per the Labour Act /
Labour Rules, for the NITA record purpose. In no case, the wage given shall be less than the
minimum wage prescribed by the Central Government from time to time.

Failure to comply with this, the agreement is liable for termination without any notice.

DETAILS OF SERVICE TAX PAID TO BE SUBMITTED:

The contractor shall submit to the NITA every succeeding month or every succeeding quarter — as
the case may be - the details of service tax of previous month / previous quarter claimed under this
contract and remitted to the concerned department. In the event of failure of submission of these
details, the service tax claimed shall not be passed for payment, which shall be claimed separately
by the contractor for reimbursement duly giving the details of the remittance of the same at the
concerned office.

REPORTING ACCIDENT.

The Contractor shall be responsible for the safety of all employees and/or Workers employed or
engaged by him/her and shall forthwith report all cases of accidents to any of them, howsoever
caused and whenever occurring, to the "NITA" and shall make every arrangement to render all
possible assistance and aid to the victims of the accident.

: ca


--- Page 27 ---
 

 

19.

20.

21.

22.

astra SretrPraet AeA SHTL AAT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

ACCIDENT OR INJURY TO THE EMPLOYEES OF THE CONTRACTOR.

The "NITA" shall not be liable for any damages or compensation payable in consequence of any
accident or injury or death either due to the negligence of the contractor or otherwise in
performance of his responsibilities.

PRESERVATION OF PEACE:

The Contractor shall take requisite precautions to prevent any riotous or unlawful behavior by or
amongst his workmen and/or others, for the preservation of peace and protection of the inhabitants
and security of property.

TERMINATION OF CONTRACT:

The Contract can be terminated by giving One month prior notice on either side. But prior notice is
not required for termination of contract ‘f the contractor violates any of the terms and conditions of
the agreement.

The contractor shall give an acknowledgment for the materials handed over to him from the NITA.
All such materials shall be returned in good working condition on completion of the contract period.

STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS:

In case by virtue of the provisions of the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970;
Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Central Rules, 1971; Minimum Wages Act — 1948;
Payments of Wages Act 1936; Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, Payment of Bonus
Act 1965; Payment of Gratuity Act 1972; Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous
Provisions Act — 1952 and Amendment Act 1988; Employees State Insurance Act — 1948 and
Amendment Act — 1989 & 2010; related Rules framed under these Acts; other Statutory obligations
on the part of the contractor, NITA is obliged or made to pay or happens to pay any amount or
wages to workers / staff employed by the contractor in execution of the work, or to incur any
expenditure in providing welfare and health amenities required to be provided under the above said
Act, or under the Rules framed by Government from time to time for the protection of health and
sanitary arrangements for workers employed by the contractor, then the NITA will recover from the
contractor the amount of wages so paid or the amount of expenditure so incurred from the security
deposited of the contractor.

Without prejudice to the right of the NITA under sub-section (2) of Section 20, and sub-section (4)
of Section 21 of the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970, NITA shall be at liberty
to recover such amount or any part thereof by deducting it from the security deposit or from any
sum due by the NITA to the contractor whether under this contract or otherwise. The NITA shall
not be bound to contest any claim made against it under sub-section (1) of Section 20, sub-section
(4) of Section 21, of the said Act, except on the written request of the contractor and upon his giving
to the NITA full security for all costs for which NITA might become liable in contesting such
claim.

The contractor shall abide by and comply with all relevant laws and statutory requirements covered
under Labour (R&A) Act, Minimum wages Act, EPF, ESI etc. It shall be the responsibility of the
contractor to provide the details of manpower engaged by him to the NITA as well as to the Labour
department.

SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES / ARBITRATION:

ee ee eer

Clause-1: If any dispute arises between the parties, in connection with contract/agreement, it shall
be decided by the competent authority/his nominee of NITA for hearing the parties. Failing which,
matter may be decided as per provision of “Arbitration and conciliation act 1996” as amended upto
date.

Clause-2: All the disputes in connection with contract/agreement shall be decided, if any in the

courts of Agartala only.
26 bk


--- Page 28 ---
  
   

24.

25.

oY

<
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

LABOUR LICENCE:

The contractor shall obtain a valid license from the Assistant labour Commissioner (C) under the
Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act 1970, and the Contract Labour (Regulation and
Abolition) Central Rules 1971, before the commencement of the service work, and continue to have
a valid license until the completion of the contract.

The contractor shall also abide by the provisions of the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation)
Act, 1986.

Any failure to fulfill this requirement shall attract the penal provisions of this contract including
termination of contract.

LIQUIDATED DAMAGES AND PENALTY:

In case of any default of terms & conditions of contract, the contractor shall be liable to pay
liquidated damages at the rate of Rs. 5,000 per day (Rupees Five thousand only). The liquidated
damages shall be recovered by the NITA out of the amounts, payable to the Contractor or from the
security deposits if not paid by the contractor. The liquidated damage so collected is not refundable.

FORCE MAJEURE:

Any delay in or failure of the performance of either part hereto shall not constitute default hereunder
or give rise to any claims for damage, if any, to the extent such delays or failure of performance is
caused by chance or expropriation or confiscation of facilities by Government authorities, acts of
war, rebellion, sabotage or fires, floods, explosions, riots, or strikes. The Contractor shall keep
records of the circumstances referred to above and bring these to the notice of the NITA in writing
immediately on such occurrences.

“

Registrar

National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura —

 

27


--- Page 29 ---
  
 
   
   

asa BrenPreat BEAT SUTRA
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

SECTION —5
SCOPE OF WORK

CONTRACTOR’S SCOPE OF WORK:

CUAL AY ss ee

The contractor shall procure the required items, prepare the food as listed in the Price bid and serve
to the students / inmates of NITA Hostels and Institute guests.

The contractor shall obtain necessary permission from the City Corporation for running the mess.
Necessary fee to be paid to the City Corporation shall be borne by the contractor.

The contractor shall be responsible for enforcing / maintenance of discipline among the workers
employed by him.

The contractor shall ensure that all the instructions of the NITA are strictly followed and there shall
be no lapse of any kind.

The wages to the workers engaged by the contractor under this contract shall be paid in the presence
of the NITA authorities.

No alcoholic drinks / statutorily banned items shall be consumed by the employees of the
Contractor during duty hours nor they shall be under alcoholic influence.

Contractor shall obtain a License from the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Agartala
before the commencement of the contract work and keep it in currency throughout the contract
period.

No structural additions or alteration shall be made without the approval of the Institute /NITA
Hostel.

The kitchen, mess hall and the premises shall be kept clean, tidy and shall be maintained in good
hygienic condition.

All left-out food / food residue / solid waste shall be disposed off by the contractor himself / herself
as per norms specified by the civic authorities.

The Mess / Kitchen shall be kept open as per the timings and periods fixed by the NITA Hostels and
shall provide the mess facilities continuously without any break.

Kitchen, Dining Hall, Dining Tables etc. may be provided by the Institute with minimum required
infrastructural facilities. The Contractor should be solely responsible for the arrangement of
Commercial L.P.G. Cylinder with burners, kitchen equipment’s, cooking and service utensils,
cutleries & crockery etc. at their own arrangement.

The contractor shall give an acknowledgement for the materials handed over to him / her by NITA
Hostels. All such materials shall be returned in good condition to the NITA Hostels while vacating
the Mess.

The contractor shall serve the items mentioned in the menu. He may serve additional items, only
after obtaining permission from the NITA Hostels. The QUALITY of the items served shall be
good and hygienic. Shall there be any complaint regarding the quality, and then it shall be
immediately attended to. Failure to maintain good quality even after being informed by the
authorities may lead to termination of the contract with / without one month’s notice.

The contractor may be required to serve food items during official functions of the Institute, on
demand, as per the rates approved by the Institute.

Outside customers shall not be entertained in the mess. Institute guests / guests of student are
permitted to take food at the mess. Name and address of the guest of student may be intimated to
the Hostel Warden immediately before serving the dish. |

Registrar ™ 3|™
National Institute of Technology
Agartala -799046, Tripura
28


--- Page 30 ---
tesa BWreanPrast Hest SILA
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

  
     

SECTION 6
FORMAT OF AGREEMENT/INDEMNITY/UNDERTAKING AND BOND

29


--- Page 31 ---
assra BearPrat Wears STRAT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

  
    

(To be signed by the bidder and same signatory competent / authorized to sign the relevant contact on
behalf of NIT, Agartala).

INTEGRITY AGREEMENT
This Integrity Agreement is made at Agartala on this ........+-++ Gay Of. .ocsccarys sees FO orca ees ucnsernerne’
BETWEEN

The Registrar, NIT, Agartala on behalf of National Institute of Technology Agartala (Hereinafter referred
as the ‘Principal / Owner’, which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof
include its successors and permitted assigns)

Pe re cba occ onic cheers ase eauw sie nee Re kame oANESD SORTA HE TIEN ED Da em AD NURS ap>R MR pW Reta men Sr ED nna SSL Ty

( Name and Address of the Individual / firm / Company )
THOUGH» sseccc cscs ssneowennnctannonvasannsiasinnnndacesssnser cep eessrnesreee (Hereinafter to as the
“Bidder/Contractor” and which
(Details of duly authorized signatory)
Expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include its succession and permitted

assigns )
Preamble

WHEREAS THE Principal / Owner has floated the Tender (NIT NO. ......002e2+eee eee ees ) (Hereinafter
referred to as “Tender/Bid”) and intends to award, under laid down organizational procedure, contract for

BO en oe incre ks ccasspesan aiaean capamumnninmenmankU anne he SRRSS ER ROWER H ne MONE SENOS nue RNiRieey ta? EERE RSA

eee a eeeee

| (Name of work)
Hereinafter referred to as the “Contract for Catering Services for Hostels of NITA”.

AND WHEREAS the Principal/Owner values full compliance with all relevant laws of the land, rules,
regulations, economic use of resources and of fairness/transparency in its relation with its Bidder(s) /
Contractor(s).

AND WHEREAS to meet the purpose as aforesaid both the parties have agreed to enter into this Integrity
Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “Integrity Pact” or “Pact”), the terms and conditions of which shall
also be read as integral part and parcel of the Tender/Bid documents and Contract between the parties.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of mutual covenants contained in this Pact, the parties hereby agree
as follows and this witnesses as under:

30


--- Page 32 ---
  
       

aesra SrenPreet Bees SIA
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

Article 1: Commitment of the Principal / Owner

 

The Principal /Owner commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption and to

observe the following principles:

(a) No employee of the Principal / Owner, personally or through any of his / her family
members, will in connection with the Tender, or the execution of the Contract, demand, take
a promise for or accept, for self or third person, any material or immaterial benefit which the
person is not legally entitled to.

(b) The Principal / Owner will, during the Tender process, treat all Bidder(s) / Contractor(s)
with equity and reason. The Principal / Owner will, in particular, before and during the
Tender process, provide to all Bidder(s) / Contractor(s) the same information and will not
provide to any Bidder(s) / Contractor(s) confidential / additional information through which
the Bidder(s) / Contractor(s) could obtain an advantage in relation to the Tender process or
the Contract execution.

(c) The Principal /Owner shall endeavour to exclude from the Tender process any person,
whose conduct in the past has been of biased nature.

If the Principal / Owner obtains information on the conduct of any of its employee that he / she is
involved in a criminal offence under the Indian Penal code (IPC) / Prevention of Corruption Act,
1988 (PC Act) or is in violation of the principles herein mentioned or if there be a substantive
suspicion in this regard, the Principal /Owner will inform the Chief Vigilance Officer and in
addition can also initiate disciplinary actions as per its internal laid down policies and procedures.

Article 2: Commitment of the Bidder(s) / Contractor(s)

1)

2)

It is required that each Bidder / Contractor (including their respective officers, employees and
agents) adhere to the highest ethical standards, and report to the Government / Department all
suspected acts of fraud or corruption or Coercion or Collusion of which it has knowledge or
becomes aware, during the tendering process and through the negotiation or award of a contract.

The Bidders(s) / Contractor(s) commit himself / themselves to take measures necessary to prevent
corruption. He /They commits/commit himself/themselves to observe the following principles
during his/their participation in the Tender process and during the Contract execution:

a) The Bidders(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm, offer,
promise or give to any of the Principal/Owner’s employees involved in the Tender process
or execution of the Contract or to any third person any material or other benefit which he /
she is not legally entitled to, in order to obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind
whatsoever during the Tender process or during the execution of the Contract.

b) The Bidders(s)/Contractor(s) will not enter with other Bidders(s) / Contractor(s) in to any
undisclosed agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal. This applies in
particular to prices, specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts, submission or non-
submission of bids or any other actions to restrict competitiveness or to cartelize in the
bidding process.

31


--- Page 33 ---
  
     

iii.

testa BreanPreet Bees SHAT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

c) The Bidders(s) / Contractor(s) will not commit any offence under the relevant IPC / PC Act.
Further the Bidders(s) / Contractor(s) will not use improperly, (for the purpose of
competition or personal gain), or pass on to others, any information or documents provided
by the Principal / Owner as part of the business relationship, regarding plans, technical
proposals and business details, including information contained or transmitted electronically.

d) The Bidders(s) / Contractor(s) will, when presenting his/their bid, disclose (with each tender
as per proforma enclosed) any and all payments he/they has/have made, is/are committed to
or intends/intend to make to agents, brokers or any other intermediaries in connection with
the award of the Contract.

The Bidders(s) / Contractor(s) will not, instigate third persons to commit offences outlined above or
be an accessory to such offences.

The Bidders(s) / Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm indulge in
fraudulent practice / means, a wilful misrepresentation or omission of facts or submission of
fake / forged documents in order to induce public official to act in reliance thereof, with the
purpose of obtaining unjust advantage by or causing damage to justified interest of others and
/ or to influence the procurement process to the detriment of the Government interests.

The Bidders(s) / Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm use Coercive
practices (which means the act of obtaining something, compelling an action or influencing a
decision through intimidation, there or the use of force directly or indirectly, where potential or
actual injury may befall upon a person, his/her reputation or property to influence their participation
in the tendering process).

Article 3: Consequences of Breach of Agreement.

Without prejudice to any rights that may be available to the Competent Authority of NITA under

law or the Contract or its established policies and laid down procedures, the Competent Authority of NITA
shall have the following rights in case of breach of this Integrity Agreement by the Bidders(s) /
Contractor(s) and the Bidders / Contractors accept and undertake to respect and uphold the Competent
Authority of NITA’s absolute right:

1) If the Bidders(s) / Contractor(s), either before the award or during execution of Contract has
committed a transgression through a violation of Article 2 above or in any other form, such
as to put his reliability or credibility in question, the Competent Authority of NITA after
giving 14 days’ notice to the contractor shall have powers to disqualify the Bidders(s) /
Contractor(s) from the Tender process or terminate / determinate the Contract, if already
executed or exclude the Bidders / Contractor from future contract award processes as the
case may be. The imposition and duration of the exclusion will be determined by the
severity of transgression and determined by the Competent Authority of NITA. Such
exclusion may be forever or for a limited period as decided by the Competent
Authority of NITA.

32


--- Page 34 ---
 
 
   

Warr Beast STRAW
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

2) Forfeiture of EMD / Security Deposit: If the Competent Authority of NITA has
disqualified the Bidders(s) from the tender process prior to the award of the Contract or
terminate / determine the Contract or has accrued the right to terminate / determine the
Contract according to Article 3(1), the Competent Authority of NITA apart from exercising
any legal rights that may have accrued to the Competent Authority of NITA, may in its
considered opinion forfeit the entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit and Security Deposit
of the Bidders / Contractors.

3) Criminal Liability: If the Competent Authority of NITA obtains knowledge of conduct of a
Bidder or Contractor, or of an employee or a representative or an associate of a Bidder or
Contractor which constitutes corruption within the meaning of Indian Penal code (IPC) /
Prevention of Corruption Act, or if the Competent Authority of NITA has substantive
suspicion in this regard, the Competent Authority of NITA will inform the same to law
enforcing agencies for further investigation.

Article 4: Previous Transgression

1)

2)

3)

The Bidder declares that no previous transgressions occurred in the last 5 years with any other
Company in any country conforming to the anticorruption approach or with Central Government or
State Government or any other Central / State Public Enterprises in India that could justify his
exclusion from the Tender process.

If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be disqualified from the Tender
process or action can be taken for banning of business dealings / blacklisting of the Bidder /
Contractor as deemed fit by the Principal / Owner.

If the Bidder / Contractor can prove that he/she has restored / recouped the damage caused by
him/her and has installed a suitable corruption prevention system, the Competent Authority of
NITA may, at its own discretion, revoke the exclusion prematurely.

Article: 5 Equal Treatment of all Bidders / Contractors / Subcontractors

1)

2)

3)

The Bidders(s)/Contractor(s) should undertake to demand from all subcontractors a commitment in
conformity with this Integrity Pact. The Bidders/Contractor shall, however, be responsible for any
violation(s) of the principles laid down in this agreement/Pact by any of its Sub-contractors/sub-
vendors.

The Competent Authority of NITA will enter into pacts on identical terms as this one with all
Bidders and Contractors.

The Competent Authority of NITA will disqualify Bidders, who do not submit, the duly signed pact
between the Competent Authority of NITA and the bidder/contractor, along with the Tender or
violate its provisions at any stage of the Tender process, from the Tender process.

Article 6: Duration of the Pact

 

This Agreement originates when both the parties have legally signed it. It expires for the

Contractor/Vendor after the completion of work under the contract or till the continuation of defect liability
period, whichever is more and applicable to all other bidders, till the Contract has been awarded.

33

 
 


--- Page 35 ---
Issa Braet AeA SHTR ATT
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

If any claim is made / lodged during the time, the same shall be binding and continue to be valid
despite the lapse of this agreement as specified above, unless it is discharged/determined by the Competent
Authority of NIT, Agartala.

Article 7: Other Provisions

1) This Agreement is subject to Indian Law, place of performance and jurisdiction is the official
Headquarters of the Principal/Owner, who has floated the Tender.

2) Changes and supplements need to be made in writing. Side agreements have not been made.

3) If the Contractor/bidder is a partnership or a consortium, this Agreement must be signed by all the
partners or by one or more partners holding power of attorney signed by all parents and consortium
members. In case of a Company, the Pact must be signed by a representative duly authorized by
board resolution.

4) Should one or several provisions of this Agreement turn out to be invalid; the remainder of this
Agreement remains valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come to an agreement to their
original intensions.

5) Any dispute or difference arising between the parties with regard to the terms and conditions of this
Integrity Agreement, any decision taken by the Owner / Principal in accordance with this Integrity
Agreement or interpretation thereof shall final.

6) Any dispute or difference arising between the parties, after awarding this contract, should be
attempted to resolve mutually between the Owner / Principal and Contractor/Bidder failing which
jurisdiction of High Court of Tripura shall be applicable.

Article 8: LEGAL AND PRIOR RIGHTS

All rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be in addition to all the other legal rights and remedies
belonging to such parties under the Contract / or law and the same shall be deemed to be cumulative and
not alternative to such legal rights and remedies as aforesaid. For the sake of brevity, both the Parties agree
that this Integrity Agreement will have precedence over the Tender/Contract documents with regard to any
of the provisions covered under this Integrity Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed and executed this Integrity Pact at the place and date
first above mentioned in the presence of following witnesses:

 

 

Cece be bbe see eee eee SRE STEERS OOS CDRH EEO OCF OD SRR Cee RR Eee ee eee es nee

POP Pe SS SHEESH SESE SE SSE SEERA ERO TES STEERS SRE C ESCA RRO O RSET EHS eee Eee Ee Eee

(For and on behalf of bidder/ contractor)
WITNESSES:

(Signature, name and address)

Place: Agartala.
Date:
34


--- Page 36 ---
ase SrenPreaset Aes SHAT
<
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

  
     

FORMAT OF AGREEMENT

Se

AGREEMENT FOR PROVIDING OF CATERING SERVICE AT HOSTEL

AGREEMENT FOR PROVIDING OF CAEN Si '__—__———- +--+

THIS AGREEMENT is made on the ----- day-------- by and between NIT, Agartala, represented by
the Registrar, hereinafter called the “NITA” of the ONE PART (The expression “NITA” shall include his
successors, assigns or transferees)

(Name and address of the agency) represented by ----------------- _ hereinafter called the contractor/ agency
which expression shall, unless excluded by or repugnant to the context, be deemed to include his
successors, heirs, executors, administrators, representatives of the OTHER PART.

Whereas the NITA has called tenders for the services of running the mess at --- vide Notice Inviting

Tender No. ----------- dated ----. Among several agencies who have offered their tender, the NITA found
the tender offered by ------------------- (Name of the agency) is acceptable and hence decided to grant the
contract to them vide Letter of Intent No.------------ dated------------.

Whereas -------------------- (Name of the agency) has accepted the award of contract.

NOW THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH as follows:

1. In this agreement, words and expression shall have the same meanings as are respectively assigned
to them in the tender document.
2. The following documents shall be deemed to form and be read and construed as part of this
agreement, namely
(i) Notice inviting Tender No. ------------------- dated ----- ;
(ii) | Tender document containing --- pages.
(iii) | Letter of Intent No. ---------
(iv) Work order
(v) All future correspondences between the parties
3. In consideration of the payments to be made by the NITA, the contractor hereby covenants with the
NITA and execute the services of running the mess at ---- with effect from the date of this
agreement.
4. That the Contractor hereby agrees to adhere to all related statutory requirements/ related Acts &
Rules and statutory provisions in employing personnel required under this contract.
5. The NITA hereby covenants to pay the contractor in consideration of the services rendered by the
contractor, the amount specified in the tender document/ price bid as accepted in the letter of intent.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed the agreement the date and year first above
mentioned.

Contractor NITA

Witness:

33


--- Page 37 ---
  
  
   

From:

To:

Sir,

asa SrePret Ae STAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

Letter of Transmittal cum undertaking

Name of the bidder
Address

The Registrar,

NIT Agartala,
Jirania, West Tripura.
Pin No. — 7990 46.

Sub.: Tender for providing catering services at NITA hostel

Having examined and understood the details given in the Notice inviting tender and the tender

document for the above service, I / we hereby submit our tender with the following declaration:

Date:

1 / we hereby declare that all the statements made by me / us in my / our bid document are true and
correct to the best of my/our knowledge and belief.

I / we declare that before signing this bid, I / we have read out and fully understood all the terms
and conditions, instructions contained therein and undertake myself / ourselves to abide by the said
terms and conditions.

I / we also agree that the NITA can approach individuals, departments, employees or firms to verify
our competence and general reputation.

1 / we agree that the Bid security (EMD) furnished along with my / our tender is liable for forfeiture
in case of any default.

I / we agree that the price bid quoted by me / us is valid for 90 days from the date of opening of the
bids. I / we further agree that I / we will not make any change in our price / financial bid after its
submission or withdraw the same.

I / we declare that we have considered all related Acts and Rules framed there-under such as
Minimum Wages Act and its amendments; Contract Labour (R&A) — Act and its amendments; and
other statutory obligations / provisions such as Payments of Wages Act 1936; Payment of Bonus
Act 1965; Payment of Gratuity Act 1972; Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous
Provisions Act — 1952 and Amendment Act 1988; Employees State Insurance Act — 1948 and
Amendment Act — 1989 & 2010 while deriving our financial quote. I / we further declare that I / we
abide by the said Acts and Rules.

I / we declare that the wages to the workers engaged under this contract shall be disbursed duly
adhering to related Labour Acts and the wages shall not be below the Minimum wages.

We will abide by the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act while employing the labor/
workers.

Signature of Authorized signatory.

36


--- Page 38 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN - 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 
 
  
   

Special conditions regarding contractor’s obligations under Employees’ Provident
Fund (EPF) and Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) Acts.

The contractor must comply with all his obligations under EPF and ESI Acts and Rules. The
contractor shall indemnify the Institute of any recovery against non- compliance with the EPF and ESI Acts

and Rules.
Indemnity by the contractor:

“I / We hereby indemnify the National Institute of Technology Agartala (represented by its
Chief Warden) that in case of any notice served by the EPF and/ or ESI authorities to the Institute
towards recovery of EPF and / or ESI due from me / us in connection with this contract, I / we agree
that the NITA is free to recover such many as decided by the NITA from my bills or any money due

to me from the NITA”.

In case, notice is received by the NITA for non-compliance and / or non-payment of EPF and / or

ESI contribution from the contractor, the same shall be deducted from any money due to the contractor.

Seal and signature of the contractor

37


--- Page 39 ---
TTS OyeitizTet Aes Srrdelt
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

FORMAT OF INDEMNITY BOND

 

(TO BE NOTORISED ON A STAMP PAPER OF APPROPRIATE VALUE)
Name of the service: Providing of Catering Services at NITA hostel

KNOW all men by these presents that M/s -------------------------------"""" (name and address of the agency)
do hereby execute Indemnity bond in favour of NIT, Agartala, West Tripura — 799046 on this ------- day of

THIS DEED WITNESSETH as follows:

We (Name and address of the contractor) do hereby indemnify and save harmless NIT, Agartala, West
Tripura — 799046 from:

1. Any third party claims, civil or criminal complaints/ liabilities/ site mishaps and other accidents or
disputes; and/ or damages occurring or arising out of any mishap due to my/ our negligence in
performing the contract for (Name of work);

 

2. Any damages, loss or expenses due to or resulting from any negligence or breach of duty on the part
of me / us or my employees;

3. Any claims by an employee of mine / ours or sub-contractors if any, under the Workman
Compensation Act or Employees Liability Act or Minimum Wages Act or any other Act / Law /
Rules and regulations in force from time to time under any Law in respect of injuries to persons or
property arising out of in the course of execution of contract and / or arising out of in the course of
employment of any workman / employee;

4. Any act or omission of mine / ours which involve any loss or damages or liability or civil or
criminal action.

IN WITNESSETH WHEREOF the above named has set his signature on this day----------------------

Signed and delivered by the aforesaid in the presence of witness:
1.

2.

38


--- Page 40 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

WAL

SECTION —7
FORMAT OF AFFIDAVIT
&
FINANCIAL SOVENCY ETC. OF BIDDER AND BALANCE SHEETS,

FORMAT OF PAYMENT OF INCOME TAX AND GST, ANNUAL
TURNOVER DETAILS AND ANNUAL PROFIT DETAILS

39


--- Page 41 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

Details of Annual financial turnover and Profit details on Messing services
(Copy of Tax audited statement to be enclosed for last five financial years (2018-19 to 2022-23)

SI] no Financial
Year

Ce geen) oe
Pg eg el eS ne
rae eee ee Se
et cote Te
es ee

i Se

    
    

     
    
  

    
   
  

      
      
 
     
 
  

   

Annual Annual Average Average Profit

    

   

Turnover (INR) Profit As per Turnover In In last Six
Books of account | last years
INR

  

  
   

ee aa

Details of Tax audited Balance sheet for last five years
(Copy of Tax audited statement to be enclosed for last five financial years (2018-19 to 2022-23))

Financial Years
| tf OTETD 2019-20 | 2020-21 2022-23

TOTAL
REVENUE
INR
TOTAL
EXPENSES

INR
eee
BEFORE TAX
INR
PROFIT
AFTER
TAX
INR

    
 

 
 
    
   
      
      

  

40


--- Page 42 ---
Praia BAIA SAL AT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 
 
  

   
 

Proof of Payment of Service tax /GST
(DURING LAST FIVE FINACIAL YEARS)

S.Tax/GST PAID
INR

   
 
     
 

   
   
   

Income
Tax
Paid

Financial
Years

   
    
  

     
 

   
 

Income
INR

Income
INR

   

Assessment
year

2090
3000-21 |
3020-21 | 2021-22 [|

je
se |

 
 
   

(Please also attach form 26AS downloaded from TDS Centralized Processing Cell of
Income Tax Department)

Date :
Signature and Seal of the bidder

Name & Address of Bidder

41


--- Page 43 ---
Pears Bears Stace
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN - 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

List of State /Central Govt./Autonomous/PSUs/Higher education Institution served
from April-18 to till date

 

Period Type Remarks
address of the Of service (Ongoing/completed)

Institution Mess/Food

 

Pls attach:-

a) Work order copies of all the above Institutes including Menus you served, No.
of students served with rates

b) Details of contact person Name, Designation, Mobile number

C) For Completed work —Testimonial from Institution served

Signature and Seal of the bidder

Name & Address of Bidder

42


--- Page 44 ---
asa San Prael Best SHIRA
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

PERFORMANCE REPORT FOR RUNNING OF HOSTEL MESSES SUCCESSFULLY IN
STATE /CENTRAL GOVT./AUTONOMOUS/PSUS/HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTE

(To be issued by the organization where facility is being provided)

+: Name of the Owner

2. Name of the Company/Firm & Location

3. Name of organization where catering services are provided

4, Name and contact No. of the person in the Organization for verification :
5; Date of award of contract

6. Date of expiry of license/completion of contract

7. Performance Report

Quality of items / works a Excellent / very Good / Good / Fair / Poor
yy | ___Resourcefulness | # Excellent / very Good / Good / Fair / Poor
Interpersonal relationship | Excellent / very Good / Good / Fair / Poor

d) Punctuality Opening & Closing Excellent / very Good / Good / Fair / Poor
of shop and Maintaining
service hours.

e) Overall Performance : Excellent / very Good / Good / Fair / Poor

          

Date:

(Signature with Name, designation and

Seal of the organization)

43


--- Page 45 ---
testa BrenrPrent Aas SRILA
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN— 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

Longest service detail
vide detai t L tservin

 

N

 

Name
Provide details of top 5 of the Name of Name of Name of Name of

client
of Hostel Messes
successfully in renowned
State/Central
Govt./Autonomous/PSUs/
Higher education Institutions)

TAA [Duration of Service |
—A2[__ Starting Date ___|
—a3[__Ending Date
| _A&| No.ofStudents served _|

Al
A.2
AA
Work Order Value (INR)

Provide details of

current Clients Name of | Name of

(Running of Hostel the client | the client
Messes successfullyin
renowned State/Central
Govt./Autonomous/PSUs
/Higher education
Institutions)

Note: Attach invoices along with Work Order including student strength, Menu, Ratesfor
each client

This is to certify that the above facts are true, complete and correct to the best of my

knowledge and belief. Further, it is certified that I/We have read and understood the

terms and conditions of the Tender Notice.

Signature of the bidder with seal of
the Firm/Company

 

44


--- Page 46 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

Details of establishment for which the contractor/service provider/vendor provided
similar catering services

  
 
    

    
  

 
  
 
 

Name of the
Organization/Institution/
Department

Contact person, During the year Number of
designation and boarders
phone number |

 

45


--- Page 47 ---
Issa Aen Pres Bees SILA
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

Details of catering service contracts in hand
(Attach a copy of agreement and work order)

      
   

    
  

     
  

      
 

 
 
  
    

Number of
boarders

Contract
period

Contact
person,
designation
and phone

Name of the
Organization/Institution/Department

  

46


--- Page 48 ---
Tessa BeaPreHst Aes SHIRA
<
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

FORMAT OF SOLVENCY CERTIFICATE FROM A NATIONALISED OR A SCHEDULED BANK
(On the Letterhead of the Bank - Should be submitted in Original)

This is to certify that to the best of our knowledge and information, M/s

, having their registered office at , a customer of our
bank, over ---- years and is/are presently enjoying certain credit facilities with us. The conduct
of the account(s) of the company has been satisfactory. The company can be considered good up
to Rs. 75 lakhs (Rupees Seventy Five lakhs only) in terms of Net Worth shown in
their Audited Balance sheet ason____. This certificate is being issued for Bidding
Catering Tender --------- at NIT Agartala.

This certificate is issued for the above-mentioned specific purpose, and at the specific request

of our customer M/s.

Authorized signatory of the Bankwith

seal and Date

N.B. Solvency certificate in any other format will not be considered for tendering process.

47


--- Page 49 ---
Tre Beal ASSIA STIR ATT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN - 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

 
  

 
  

Providing catering services in academic
institutions/CFTI

      
    
  

    
  

Catering License (Catering license / Shops & Establishment
License / FSSAI License)

Compulsory

i ifi ; Compulsory
Bidder Solvency
(as per the format given in the tender documents)

Central FSSAI License (License is compulsory however there isa
60 days grace period for the submission of license documents) Compulsory

Compulsory

Compulsory

  
    
    

 

 
      
       
    
   

 

Total experience in State /Central
Govt./Autonomous/PSUs/Higher education Institution

   

Weightage based on the balance sheets for five financial
years in 2018-19, 2019-20, 2020-21,
2021-22 & 2022-23.

Weightage based on the performance report

Total No of employees

48


--- Page 50 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

Criteria for General Assessment: (An appropriate formula will be decided by thecommittee in
case of multiple L1 bidder)

1. Academic/CFTI Institutions

a) Providing catering services to 851 students and above : 20 marks
b) Providing catering services to 701 to 850 students : 15 marks

Cc) Providing catering services to 551 to 700 students : 10 marks

d) Providing catering services to 400 to 550 students : 5 marks

e) Providing catering services to < 400 students : No credit

+
Providing catering services in (2 to 5) State /Central Govt./Autonomous/PSUs/Higher education
Institutions: 5 marks

or
Providing catering services to more than 5 State /Central Govt./Autonomous/PSUs/Higher education
Institutions: 10 marks

2. Balance Sheets
Turnover implies Total turnover per year

Turnover per year (Rs.)

a >20 Crores 20
2 16 to 20 Crores 15

 

10 to 15 Crores
Less than 10 Crores

3. Performance Reports
a) Excellent: 15 marks

b) Very Good : 10 marks
c) Good : 05 marks

d) Fair : 03 marks

e) Poor : No credit

 

4. Employees
a) >30 : 10 marks

b) 25 to 30 : 8 marks
Cc) 20 to 25 : 6 marks
d) 15 to 20 : 4 marks
e) 10 to 15: 1 mark
f) <10 : No credit

49


--- Page 51 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

 

 

5. Maximum experience in State/Central Govt./Autonomous/PSUs/Higher Education Institutes etc.
a) >12 years : 20 marks

b) 10 to 11 years : 15 marks

c) 8 to 9 years : 10 marks

d) 6 to 7 years : 5 marks

e) Less than 6 years : No credit

6. Financial Solvency : 05 Marks


--- Page 52 ---
Iessra BreiPreaet Beas SHIRA
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

 

 

 

 

FORMAT OF AFFIDAVIT
[For Sl. No. 12 and 13 of Eligibility Criteria]

On a stamp paper of Rs.200/- duly sworn before the Public Notary

Affidavit of Mr./Ms. . S/o/ of Mr. aged about years, resident of
, working as --------- (designation) for ------------------- (name and address of the bidding

agency).

I, the above named deponent, solemnly affirm and state as under:

. That I am working as ------- / proprietor of the ------ (name of the firm) and authorized to sign this
affidavit.

_ That the firm M/s---- (complete address of the firm) has not abandoned or suspended any catering
contracts/ mess contracts/services of any organization/ department so far.

_ That the firm M/s---- (complete address of the firm) has not been blacklisted/ debarred for competing in
tenders for catering contracts/ mess contracts/services of any organization/ department so far..

. I solemnly verify that the facts stated above are true and nothing material has been concealed.

Seal and Signature of deponent
Identified by:

Solemnly affirmed and signed before me by the Deponent after the contents of this affidavit were read

| over to him, and stated by him to be true and correct on this ----- day of ------- 2024, at -------- :


--- Page 53 ---
assra BrenPrper Beers SRT
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

 

| FORMAT OF NEAR RELATIVE CERTIFICATE
| R Vv TIFICAT

| (To be given by All Directors/Bidders/Proprietors/Partners)

r/o

I S/o Sri

| hereby certify that none of my relative (s) as defined in the tender document is / are employed in NIT
Agartala as per details given in tender document. In case at any stage, it is found that the information

|

given by me is false /incorrect, NIT Agartala shall have the absolute right to take any action as deemed

fit / without any prior intimation to me.

Date:
|
Place: Signature of the Bidder
}
| Date: Name
Designaion

| e Incase of Company/Institution/Body Corporate, a list of all Board of

| Directors may be submitted along with the bid.

e In case of Company/Institution/Body corporate, “Near Relative Certificate” are
| required by all Directors of Company/Institution/Body Corporate excluding

Government of India

/Financial Institution Nominees and Independent non-official part time Directors appointed by Government of
India or the Governor of State.

* Incase of Proprietorship Firm, the Certificate will be given by Proprietor.

| For Partnership Firm, certificate will be given by all the Partners


--- Page 54 ---
astra Grenrasr SSA STATIK ACT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN - 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

  
  
  

 

    
   
   
   
   

SECTION —8
FORMAT OF LETTER OF INTENT
&

WORK ORDER


--- Page 55 ---
Iesra BraniPreset Aes SRA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FORMAT OF LETTER OF INTENT

Date:
(Name address of the agency)
Sub.: Providing Catering Service at NITA Hostels - Letter of Intent — Reg.
Ref.: 1. Notice inviting tender ---------------- dated -------.

2. Your tender dated ------------ in Two Cover system

This is to inform you that, subject to the terms and conditions of Notice inviting tender dated -----------
| and the tender document, your tender under reference (2) above for the above service is accepted as follows:

Details of accepted price bid

You are requested to submit an interest free security deposit of Rs. 15,00,000 (Rupees Fifteen Lakh
only) for each mess before entering into the agreement, by means of a Demand Draft of any scheduled bank
| drawn in favour of the Registrar, NIT, Agartala payable at SBI, NIT Agartala, RTGS/NEFT & BG in an

| acceptable form safeguarding the NITA’s interest in all respect.

You are also requested to attend this office within three days from the date of issue of this letter along
| with a non-judicial stamp paper/ document paper of Rs.200/- for executing an agreement.

Yours sincerely,

Registrar,
NIT , Agartala


--- Page 56 ---
tesa BrenPrepr AearT Stan
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

aa

 

 

FORMAT OF WORK ORDER
WO nncunnnnnnmcnncecssinwensee Date:
To:
(Name and address of the agency)
Sir,
Sub.: Providing Catering Service at NITA Hostels — Work order — Reg.
Ref.: 1. This office letter of Intent No. -------- dated ------------- ‘
: 2. Agreement dated -----------
The agreement dated --------------- for the above service is accepted. A copy of the agreement is enclosed.
You are requested to contact the ----- _NITA Hostels, Agartala for further instructions. Subject to satisfactory
performance and subject to terms and conditions of the agreement dated ------, the contract is for one year,

 

The payment charge payable under this contract is as follows:

Details of accepted price bid

| You shall pay the Service tax directly to the concerned authority and submit the remittance details to the

| NITA from time to time for making reimbursement.
|

| You shall pay all the statutory benefits to the employees engaged under this contract and submit the

| remittance details to the NITA from time to time.

You shall furnish the NITA every succeeding month, the details of salary of previous month given to
| your employees with copy of salary slip, details of cheque given towards salary, EPF, ESI, bonus etc. or the copy
| of the receipt obtained from the staff, as per the Labour Act, for the NITA record purpose. In no case, the
| payment to the workers shall be less than the minimum wage prescribed from time to time.

 

You are requested to obtain Labour Licence from the Labour Commissioner (C) as per Contract Labour
| (Regulation and abolition) Act 1970 and the Central Rules framed there-under, and submit a copy of the same to
| this office for record purpose. Form No. 5 required in this connection is enclosed herewith.

You are further requested to submit an Indemnity bond as per the terms of the agreement (format
| enclosed)

Yours sincerely,
| Encl: As above

Registrar
| NIT , Agartala
| Copy with copy of agreement to:


--- Page 57 ---
 
  
   
 
   
   
   

asSra Seni Pree Beas SILA

National Institute of Technology Agartala

SECTION — 9

PRICE BID
&

LIST OF MENU


--- Page 58 ---
ase Brera Asa STRAT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

LIST OF MENU
&
PRICE BID

 

| Name of work/ service : Providing Catering Services at NITA Hostel, Agartala

Name and Address of the bidder
i

se eee


--- Page 59 ---
tessa SrenPrat Beast SPRATT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360, Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

Awin Gro

   
  

      
       
 
        

FIRST YEAR BOYS’ MESS MENU

 
       
    
     

   
  
  

   
 

  
   

  
 

     
 
   
    
   
 

   
   
   
     
   
 
  

  

    

ONION/METRHI RICE, TOOR DAL, ALOO RICE, ROTI, MOONG DAL,
MONDAY PARATHA, ALOO GOBHI/ MOONG ALOO SABJI, EGG CURRY/ VEG KOFTA,
SABJI PAPAD (one piece) PATA GOBHI

   

RICE, ROTI, SOYABEEN,
MASUR DAL, PAPADBUNDI
RAITA, PAPAD (one piece)
RICE, ROTI, ALOO MATOR

CURRY, MOONG DAL,
PAPAD (one piece)

RICE, ROTI,ALOO CHOKHA,
KHADI PAPAD(one piece)

RICE, ROTI, MOONG DAL,
RAJMA, DAHI, PAPAD (one
piece)
RICE, ROTI, DUM ALOO,
MOONG DAL, PAPAD (one
piece)
RICE, ROTI, MIX VEG, DAL

 

(POHA,
SAUCE) / (HALWA,
CHANA)

     
       
   
 

PURI, KABULI, KHEER
PULAOQ

ROTI, RICE, CHICKEN/
MATAR PANEER ,LAUKI
SABJI, DAL
ROTI, RICE, EGG
CURRY.MIXVEG DRY, BEANS
SABJI
ROTI, RICE, KHADHAI
CHIKEN/PALAK PANEER,
ALOO BHUJIYA, TOOR DAL
ROTI, RICE, MASUR DAL,
FISH FRY/MATAE PANEER,
CHANA ALOO
CHICKEN BIRIANI/VEG
BIRIANI, SEMI GRAVY,
RAITA

      

   
 
   
  

   

UTTAPAM, SAMBAR
ALOO PARAIEA, MAKHANI, PAPAD (one

DAHI, CHUTNEY ;
piece)

EVERYDAY BREAKFAST BANANA (2), TEA

SALAD (¢ mixture of onion, cucumber, beetroot etc.),chilly
PICKLE (two flavors alternative }

EVERYDAY AFTERNOON (FROM 5.30PM TO 6.30PM)

   
  
  
 
  
   
  
     
   
  
  
 

  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  

 
  

PAV BHAJI/CHOWMIN

  
 
 
  
 
  

  
 

  

  
 

   
  
   
    
   
 
    
      

   

   

  
  
  

 
 

 
       

   

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  

  
   
     
   
 
 

       
       
     
   

    

 

           
      

,

   

fa

 


--- Page 60 ---
 

 
 

TSsra BEN Pras BEA SHILA

National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

EASTERN MESS

 

PrneyvRe- 8

   

 

Pao Bhaji,
Boiled Egg

MONDAY

TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY

THRUSDAY
a

SATURDAY
SUNDAY

EVERYDAY BREAKFAST:
EVERYDAY DINNER AND LUNCH:
SEASONAL SABJI: Bhendi, Parwal, Beans, Lauki, Jhinga, Karkal, Kathal, Turnip, Carrot, Karala, Kacha Kala, Cabbage,
Cauliflower, Spinach And Other Green Leafy Vegetables(must)
SNACK (TEA AND BISCUIT): EVERYDAY AFTERNOON (FROM 5.30PM TO 6.30PM)

(2)

 

Daal Puri/ Chhola
Bhatura (Alt Week)

Egg Hakka Chowmin,
Tomato Sauce

Bread Toast,
Butter / Jam
Week)

Boiled Egg (2)

(Alt

Maggi,
Tomato Sauce

Aloo Paratha,
Dahi,

Tomato Sauce Or
Aloo MatarSabji

Plain Paratha,
Aloo Dum /

2 Masala Dosas,
Coconut Or
Groundnut Chutney
(alt. week)

Roti, Rice, Chana
Daal, Seasonal Sabji,
French Fries,
DaalPapad, Sidal
Chutney}

Roti, Rice, MasurDaal,
Aloo MatarPanner
Murighanta,

DaalPapad

Roti, Rice, Mung Dal,
Veg Pakora, Allo
Soyabean Sabji,Rajma
Roti, Rice, Masur Dal
Veg Pakoda,

Seasonal Sabji,
(Bamboo Shoot /Beans)
Gudak, Daal, Papad
Roti, Fried Rice, Fish
Kalia, Daal, Aloo Fry,
Mix Sabji, Paneer,
Rice, Papad

Roti, Rice,
Chana Dal,
Veg Fry, Seasonal
Sabji, Fish (lpc),
DaalPapad

Roti, Rice,
Veg Pakora,
Sabji, Rice

Dal Fry,
Seasonal
Papad

 

Banana (2), Tea (100ml)
Salad (Onion, Cucumber, Tomato), Lemon, Pickels

Rice, Roti, Veg Fry,
Chana Dal, Fish
Curry, GulabJamun (1)
/Rasagulla (1)

Rice, Roti,
DaalPapad,
Arhar Dal,
Sewai Kheer

Egg Kasha,

Rice, Roti,

Masur Dal, French
fries, Chicken Kasha,
Seasonal Sabji,
Roti, Rice, Aloo
Brinjal Fry,

Fish Kalia,
GulabJamun (1)
/Rasogulla (1)
Rice, Roti, Chana
Dal, Chicken Kasha,
Seasonal Sabji,
DaalPapad

Rice, Roti,
Masur Dal,
Chilli Paneer,
fries

Veg Fry,

French

Chicken Biryani
Gravy, Fruit Raita

 


--- Page 61 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in Bains PwoRR- Cc,

 

NORTHERN MENU

 

 

__toNcH

DAY DAL PURI, ALOO TOAMATO ROTI, RICE, MASOOR ROTI, RICE,TOOR DAL,
SABJI DAL, DAHI, RAJMA,SEAS EGG CURRY
ONAL SABJI

TUESDAY POHA WITH SPROUT, ROTI, RICE MOONG ALOO PURI, VEG PUALAO,
SAUCE, NAMKEEN SABJI,FRENCH FRY, MATTAR PANEER, ALOO
ARHAR DAL GABHI TOOR DAL
WEDNESDAY | METHI PARATHA, MATAR ROTI(2), JEERA RICE, ROTI, JEERA RICE,
ALOO CURRY ALOO GOBHI ONION CHIKEN DRY, DAL,
PAKODA (2)
VEG BIRIYANI, TOMATO | ROTI, RICE, MOONG DAL,
ONION GRAVY, BHUDI EGG MASALA
RAITA, PAPAD

DAY DOSA, SAMBHER, ALOO FRIED RICE, ROTI, RICE, CHICKEN
MASALA MAUCHARIAN, ARHAR CURRY, DAL
DAL, ROTI

SATURDAY CHOLA BHATURA CHOPPRD RICE, ROTI, KALA ROTI,RICE, TOOR DAL,
ONION CHANA, FRENCH FRY, FISH, SWEET
DAL

ALOO PARATHA, DAHI, RICE, ROTI, MIX VEG, CHICKEN BRIYANI
TOMATO CHUTNEY FRENCH FRY, DAL (BASMATI) , GRAVY, RAITA,
EVERDAY MORNING-TEA AND BANANA
EVERDAY LUNCH-SALAD
EVERDAY DINNER- PICKLE
SNACK (TEA AND BISCUIT): EVERYDAY AFTERNOON (FROM 5.30PM TO 6.30PM)

 


--- Page 62 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046

 

  

ONION/METHI PARATHA, ALOO

SABJII
POHA WITH SEV SAUCE/SUJI
HALUA

DAAL PURI, ALOO SABJI

IDLI, SAMBAR,
CHUTNEY/UTHAPAM, SAMBHAR

PURI, ALOO SABJI

MASALA DOSA, SHAMBER, ALOO
MASALA

ALOO PARATHA/ PARATHA,
DAHI, TOMATO CHUTNEY

EVERYDAY BREAKFAST

 

Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

ROTI (2), JEERA
RICE, MIXED VEG,
ALOO BHUJIA, TOOR

DAL

ROTI (2), RICE

MATAR, MOONG DAL,

ROTI (2), BADAM
RICE, MASUR DAL,
ALOO MATAR CURRY

ROTI (2),
RICE,KADHI WITH
PAKODA, ALOO
CHOKHA, PAPAD [2]
ROTI (2), LEMON
RICE, DHAI, DUM
ALOO, MASHUL DAL
ROTI (2), RICE,
RAJMA JEERA BUTTER
MILK
VEG BIRYANI,
[BASMATI RICE],
GRAVY RAITA

 

 

ROTI, RICE, TOOR
DAL,PALAK PANNER,
PATTAGOBHI

PURI, VEG PULAO,
KABULI CHANA, TOOR
DAL, ALOO BHUJIA
ROTI, JEERA RICE,
MIXED VEG, KADHAI
PANEER YELLOW GRAVY,
TOOR DAL
ROTI, RICE, MOONG
DAL, CHILI PANEER,
BEANS ALOO

ROTI, RICE, MATAR
PANEER, CHANA DAL,
ALOO FRY BHUJIA
ROTI, RICE TOOR DAL,
KALA CHANA ALOO, VEG
KOFTA
ROTI, RICE, BUTTER
PANEER, SWEET, TOOR
DAL


--- Page 63 ---
west SrenPrest ASI Ska
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

  
 

 

“SOUTHERN MESS MENU

  
 

a ee

IDLI (5 PCS) ,GROUNDNUT-
COCONUT CHUTNEY, SAMBAR

CHAPATI, ALOO MATAR
CURRY, EGG

ONION UTTAPAM (3),
SAMBER,
CHUTNEY, SPROUTS/UPMA, SAMB
ER, CHUTNEY, SPROUTS

IDLI(5 PCS, GROUNDNUT-
COCONUT CHUTNEY, SAMBAR

BREAD, OMLET, BUTTER, JAM, SP
ROUTS/RAVA DOSA, TOMATO
CHUTNEY, SAMBER

MASALA DOSA(2),SAMBAR,
GROUNDNUT-COCONUT

CHUTNEY,

ALOO PARATHA, DAHI,
TOMATO CHUTNEY

RICE, PAPPU WITH GREEN LEAF,
PAPAD (2), MUTTER PANEER(4),
JEERA BUTTER MILK
VEG BIRIYANI, TOMATO ONION
CHUTNEY, RAITA WITH
BOONDHI/FRIED RICE,
MANCHURIAN, RAITA
JEERA RICE , GREEN LEAF
CURRY/LADIES FINGER CURRY,
PALAK DAL, ALOO FRY, JEERA
BUTER MILK
RICE, SAMBER, JEERA
BUTERMILK, CABBAGE/CAULIFLOWE
R CURRY, PAPAD(2)

VEG BIRIYANI, BRINJAL CURRY,
RAITA WITH BOONDHI, DAL
KHEER

RICE, SAMBER, LADIES FINGER
FRY/SEASONAL SABJI, PAPAD
(2), JEERA BUTTERMILK

RICE, MIXED VEG CURRY (NO
ALOO), PALAK PAL,
CAULIFLOWER FRY, JEERA
BUTERMILK, PAPAD (2)

ROTI,RICE , OMLET WITH
CURRY, AVIAL, SAMER

ROTI, RICE, DEEP FRIED
FISH, CABBAGE FRY,
PAPPU, RASAGULLA

ROTI,RICE , GUNTER
CHIKEN CURRY, BEANS
CURRY, PAPPU

ROTI,RICE EGG SEMI
CURRY,SAMBER, GREEN
LEAF CURRY WITH DAL
ROTI,RICE, KADAI
CHIKEN, SAMBER, LADIES
FINGER CURRY
PURI/CHAPATI, KABUU
CHANA, RICE SAMBER,
RASAMALAI /GULABJAMUN, E
GG BURJI (2 EGGS)

CHICKEN BIRIYANI/VEG
BIRIYANI, SEMI GRAVY
RAITA

AnNGvee.

 

EVERYDAY BREAKFAST

EVERYDAY LUNCH

EVERYDAY DINNER

SNACK (TEA AND BISCUIT):

 

2 BANANA, TEA

PICKLE, SALAD (CUCUMBER, CARROT, ONION, LEMON, BEETROOT) COMPULSORY

EVERYDAY AFTERNOON

(FROM 5.30PM TO 6.30PM)

 


--- Page 64 ---
 

 

Testa Verret A

Seats SETI

GIRLS HOSTEL MESS MENU

ae EVENING

ALOO PARATHA, DAHI,
SEASONAL CHATNI
MONDAY
VEGETABLE DALIA
KHICHDI (150 GM),
TUESDAY MIXED VEG FRY / ALOO
FRY, BANANA
VEG SANDWICH (3P),
EGG OMLET(1)/ EGG
WEDNESDAY | BHURJI (NON-VEG),
PANEER BHURJI (VEG) /
PAW BHAIJI (4 PAW)
DAL PURI (2PIC), ALOO
MATOR SABJI/ ALOO
BLACK CHHANA SABI]
THURSDAY

VEG CHOWMEIN OR
POHA (150 GM) (CARROT
+ ONION + CAPSICUM
FRIDAY +PEANUT CURRY
PATTA), BANANA
IDLY (4 PIC) OR
UTTAPAM (2 PIC),
SATURDAY | SAMBER, COCONUT
CHATNI, FRESH MILK
(100 ML)

PLAIN RICE, ROTI, ARHAR

DAL WITH OLIVE, SEASONAL

SAAG, SOYABEAN SABJI,
BONDI RAITA

LEMON RICE / PLAIN RICE,
ROTI (3), CHANA DAL FRY,
KUMBRI FRY, DRUMSTICK
GRAVY / ALOO DUM
MASALA, SEASONAL FRY

PLAIN RICE, ROTI, SAMBAR
DAL, ALOO SMESH
(BHARTA), ALOO GOVI
SABJI, SEASONAL SAAG,
SALAD

PLAIN RICE, ROTI, ARHAR
DAL WITH PALAK,
SEASONAL SABJI, BEGONI,
SALAD

PLAIN RICE, ROTI, CHANA
DAL WITH COCONUT, VEG
PAKORA (4P) MIXED VEG,

MASALA RAITA

PLAIN RICE, ROTI, MOONG
DAL, ALOO GOVI SABJI /
ALOO BHENDI MASALA
SABJI, ALOO PAPAD,
SEASONAL FRY, SALAD

PANEER RICE , ROTI, DAL
TOMATO + DHANIA, JHURI
ALOOBHAJI, SEASONAL
MIXED VEG, DAHI

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN - 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

PANI PURI
(5 PIC),
JEERA
PANI, IMLI
PANI,
LEMON
TEA

BREAD
(4PC) MILK
(100 ML)

ALOO
CHOP (BIG
IP), SAUCE,
TEA

COFFEE
(80ML)
+CHIRA
BHAJI

WITH
CHANACH
UR / BREAD
PAKUDA

SAMOSA (1
BIG PC),
SAUCE,
TEA

TEA +
MAGEE (1)

COFFEE (80
ML) +
POPCORN
(100 GM)

VEG PULAO, PLAIN PURI,
DAL MAKHANI, ALOO GOVI
TAMATAR SABJI, PANEER
MASALA, SUJI HALWA /
KHEER

ROTI , STEAMED RICE,
MASSOR DAL, BEGUN FRY
(BIG (2P) SMALL (4P), FISH

CURRY, KABLI CHOLA WITH

TAMATOR SABJI, SALAD

ROTI, JEERA RICE, MOONG
DAL, BHENDI MASALA,

MASTARD, CHICKEN CURRY

WITH POTATO, MUSHROOM
MASALA, PAPAR, LENCHA

ROTI, PLAIN RICE, URAD
DAL, ALOO CABBAGE
GREEN PEAS FRY, EGG
CURRY, VEG PANEER
KOFTA (4P), SALAD

ROTI PLAIN RICE, MIXED
DAL TARKA, FISH (SMALL
WITH MASTARD) CURRY,
STUFFED PATOL (2P)/ ALLO
BEANS FRY / PALAK
PANEER / STUFFED
CAPSICUM

VEG FRIED/ PLAIN RICE,
ROTI, ARHAR DAL,
SEASONAL FRY, EGG PYAZI
WITH TOMATO, MIXED VEG
WITH PANEER

PLAIN RICE, ROTI, CHANA
DAL, CHICKEN KASHA(4
PC)- NON VEG, KADHAI
PANEER(4 PC) VEG, ALOO

 

BREAD TOAST(6)
BUTTER (20GM) / JAM (20
SUNDAY GM), NON-VEG, VEG
CATLET / PANEER
PAKORA, BANANA

TEA FOR BREAKFAST EVERY DAY
SUGAR TO PROVIDED SEPARATELY
BANANA WEEKLY THREE DAYS (2P)

SEASONAL FRESH FRUIT 15" THREE
THURSDAY

ONION FRY, RASMALAIT

¢ PICKLE COMPULSORY FOR LUNCH / DINNER
* FISH HEAD WITH DAL (2° & 4™ SATURDAY IN LUNCH)

e LAST SUNDAY OF THE MONTH CHICKEN BIRYANI & PANEER BIRYANY,
RAITA SALAD

* SUINDAY DAHI SHALL NOT BE PROVIDED FOR DECEMBER & JANUARY,
INSTEAD MILK (100ML) WILL BE PROVIDED IN SUNDAY BREAKFAST

*Utensils and counters for veg mess should be separately arranged.

 


--- Page 65 ---
were Beret AI SHIRA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

 

     

Add on Menu

Cornflakes/Dalia/Chocos/Noodles/Pasta/Paneer | Omelets/Fish Item/Paneer item/Chicken
Roll /Veg Roll/Pav Vhaji/Papri Chat/Bread Items/Sweets/Curd etc.
pakora/Kheer etc.

Brands to be used

ITEMS PREFFERED BRAND

Refined Oil (Sunflower/Rice
Bran/Soyabean/ Ground nut), Fortune/Sundrop/Saffola Gold/ Engine/Dhara
*No palm oil to be used

Mustard Oil Fortune/Engine/Tank/Dhara/Shalimer

Wheat (Atta g

Rice SonaMasoori/Mogra/Kohinoor/Jeerakasala

Pel h. Rice/Miniket Rice/Kitchen Khazana/Basmati(for
Biriyani)

Maggi/Kissan/Nutrela
Nilons/Tops/Haldiram

Salt CC—C—~—~—C*d*isCSTrata/A\shir-vasad

MDH/Catch/Cook me/Sister

Tata Gold/Red label/Wagh Bakri
Everyday/Amul/Nestle(upto 30% of usage’
eaten Pd

Kissan/Reliance/Druk
Monorama/Ashirvaad/Amul/Gobardhan

Sonamokh/Angur/Harvest/Tata/Reliance/Good
Life

Coffee Nescafe/Bru

Harvest/My Kitchen/ lijjat/Haldiram/ any brand
with FSSAI certified

Nestle/Top Ramon/Maggi/Sunfeast.

Ruchi/Chings Chowmin

Dahi/Curd Gomati/any brand with FSSAI certified or
homemade.

Soyabean (mini chunk Nutrela/Sunrise/F ortune/Saffola
ie

 

 

Britannia/Parle G/Biskfarm/Sunfeast/Unibic
Paneer Amul/Gomati/ any brand with FSSAI certified

Tasty Bite/Any brand with FSSAI certified/Dr
Smith/Surana/Swanson


--- Page 66 ---
 

TST Terrasr seers spreaqen

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside thttp//www.nita.ac.in

 

       
 

Others:
Fresh Chicken (without head, neck, liver, stomach) 150 gram per
head/meal
Fresh Fish (Katla/Rahu) 80 gram per
head/meal

 
 
 

100 gram per head
Fresh Button Mushroom 40 gram per head

“Curd preparation-No milk Powder should be used
*Cow Ghee should be used for preparation of Biriyani
*Refined Floor Maida not to be used.

       


--- Page 67 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

 

      

PRICE BID OFFER
Name of work: Providing Catering Services at NITA Hostels, Agartala
Name of the bidder:

I am / we are hereby offering to provide catering services at NITA, Agartala at the below quoted rate:

Second Year Third Year

 

    
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
    
 

  

 

Brief description of
item / dish
as per list of M
Break Fast

Day First Year

 
 
 

  

enu

 

Evening Snacks Sunday

i

|
1

Total Sunda
Break Fast

Monday

,

:
|

Total Monda
Break Fast

Tuesday

Total Tuesda
Break Fast

Wednesday

|

Total Wednesda
Break Fast

Total Thursda
Break Fast

:

Friday

Evening Snacks

Total Frida

:

Break Fast

:
|

 
  
  

Saturday

Evening Snacks

Total Saturda
TOTAL (for seven days

!

 
   

GRAND TOTAL


--- Page 68 ---
TST AER SY deers soraey

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tri pura (w). PIN — 799046
Fax:0381 234-6360,Webside :http//www.nita.ac.in

   
   

      

  

     
        

Seal & Signature

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala ~ 799 046, Tripura

 
 
