
--- Page 1 ---
pe

  

TST Beara HAM stTeaentant Registrar

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Fax : 0381 254-6360, Website : http// www.nita.ac.in

    
   
   
   
   

Date:2E / 10 /2023
E-Tender Notice

On behalf of National Institute of Technology Agartala, online quotation through Central Public
Procurement Portal (CPPP) are invited from the reputed resourceful Manufacturers / Authorized
Distributors/ Authorized Suppliers for supply of item(s)/goods/software/chemicals etc. as per specification
mentioned in Annexure of tender document available at our website www.nita.ac.in and central public
procurement portal i.e. www.eprocure.gov.in. The tender document can be downloaded from the website
http:// eprocure.gov.in.

     
 
    
   
      
      
 
   
 
   
     
   

Time and date
of opening of
Technical bid

Estimated cost Last date of

hearse (Rs.) receipt of tender

uolI0g /
quaun.edaq

An integrated set up
under Conversion
analysis of the syngas

No.F.NITA.11(29 | production from
-ME)/Startup | single-use absorbent OFN220023 | 08 /)1L.2023

SRG/SERB- waste materials and its
PROJECT(L2)/ | applicability for power
P.Singh/2023 generation in
industries/hospital
through RCCI
combustion

15,16,300.00 | Up to 3:00 PM At 3:00 PM

 

 

 

 

 

‘The interested Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/Authorized Suppliers may arrange online
submission of the tender through www.eprocure.gov.in along with scan copy of essential documents mentioned in
the tender document.

Tender(s) is/are to be submitted only online through central public procurement portal ie.
“http://eprucure.gov.in”. All the documents are to be scanned and uploaded along with the tegder documents.

Tender sent by any other mode will not be accepted.

Assistant Registrar (Purchase)
(NIT Agartala)

Copy to:
1. The P.S. to the Director for kind information.
2, The Nodal Officer, e-Procurement, NITA with a request to kindly arrange uploading the
Tender Documents in the CPP portal https://eprocure.gov.in/eppp.
3. Dr. Suman Deb, Asstt. Prof. & Head CSE Department with a request to uploading the Tender
documents in the Institute website site.
4, The Deputy Registrar (F & A).

\O nov

Assistant Registrar(Purchase)
(NIT Agartala)


--- Page 2 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

    

Date: 2>#/ 'O = /2023

 

No.F.NITA.11(29-ME)/Startup SRG/SERB-PROJECT(L2)/P.Singh/2023 /S$429-9¢

E- Tender Enquiry

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

Name of the Institute : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TE CHNOLOGY
AGARTALA

GST Number of the Institute : 16AAAGNO0550K12ZG

PAN of the Institute : AAAGNOSS50K

TAN of the Institute : SHLNOO719F

DSIR No. : TU/V/RG-CDE(1053/2017 dated 15/03/2018

Institute Bank A/C No. : 030936141729 (IFSC: SBINO01 1491) under SBI, NIT
Agartala Branch.

Name of Department / Branch : ME Department

Enquiry / Reference Number : No.F.NITA.11(29-ME)/Startup SRG/SERB-PROJECT(L2)
/P.Singh/2023

Some important/Critical dates:

 

| Time: 5:00 PM

   
    

 

Uploading on CPP Portal and | Date: is/ Ji /2023
Department’s web-site

  
  
  

    
      
   
 

 

| Bid submission start date Date: 4 s] ai = /2023 Time: 5:00 PM

   

  

 

Bid submission end date Date: OF / 492 /2023 Time: 3:00 PM

Opening of technical bid Date: og/i19 /2023

 

 

 

Time: 3:00 PM

 

1|Page


--- Page 3 ---
WS Wealrtal FI BTA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

 

NIT, Agartala intends to purchase the commodities/serrie(s)
specified in Annexure enclosed and invites quotations in accordance with the
terms and conditions detailed in the bid document. If you are interested,
kindly submit your offer with prices within the time mentioned above fulfilling

all the terms and conditions marked in the bid documents.

 

AssiStant Registrar (Purchase)
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

Encl :

(1) Schedule of requirement, specifications, dates etc.
(2) Bid document containing detail terms and conditions.

2|Page


--- Page 4 ---
 

i.

5.

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

 

 

___ Description of Goods/Service Quantity
An integrated set up under Conversion analysis of the syngas
01 production from single-use absorbent waste materials and its 01 Set
applicability for power generation in industries/hospital through
| RCCI combustion (Details as per list at Annexure-A)

 

 

 

Specifications and allied Technical Details
An integrated set up under Conversion analysis of the syngas production from single-use
absorbent waste materials and its applicability for power generation in industries/hospital
through RCCI combustion
(Details as per list at Annexure-A)

 

 

 

 

Estimated Cost

= 15,16,300.00

Quotations should be valid for a period of 180 days from the opening date of the
technical bid.

 

 

 

Bid Security or EMD: 2% of the estimated cost of the tender or Bidders should submit
“Bid Security Declaration Form” on company letter head as per annexure-D of this
tender document.

Performance Security: The amount of the Performance Security shall be 3%(three
percent) (not applicable for consumable item(s)) of the Purchase Order / Contract
value, valid up to 60 days after the date of completion of contract obligations including
warranty obligations.

Delivery Option: 120 (one hundred and twenty) days after receipt of the
purchase/work order(s).

Please go through the enclosed “bid document” carefully for other bidding instructions.

For any technical details, you may contact through email-id:

buycon20.nit.tr@gembuyer.in / nitapurchasesection2@gmail.com.

Yours sincerely,

ea
Assist: egistrar (Purchase)

National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

3|Page


--- Page 5 ---
 

No.F.NITA.11(29-ME)/Startup SRG/SERB-PROJECT(L2)/P.Singh/2023/$ 49>-2¢

 

WS WEP FIM SAA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Date: 2) WO /2023

   

BID DOCUMENT

LE: Instructions to the bidders:

ded

12

is
1.4

1.5

1.6

if

1.8

13

1.10

1.11

4|Page

Bids are invited through e-tender on behalf of the National Institute of
Technology Agartala, Tripura, Agartala-799046 from the intending bidders for
supply of the goods/stores/ equipments/Learning resources for the Institute as
detailed in the enquiry letter.

The bidders should quote their rates in clear terms without ambiguity. The
quotation should be only in Indian Rupees.

The last date & time for submission of the bid is marked in the enquiry.

The bids should be submitted online through www.epuocure.gov.in before the
last date & time of submission specified in tender document.

Bids received after the deadline of receipt indicated in para 1.4 above, shall not
be taken into consideration.

Each bidder shall submit only one bid against one enquiry. A bidder, who
submits more than one bid against single enquiry, shall be disqualified and
considered non-responsive.

The bidder has to enclose a check list at per Annexure - C duly filled in along
with all relevant/supporting documents while submitting technical bid through
www. eprocure.gov.in.

Opening of Bids by the Purchaser will be done as per the provisions of the e-
procurement system.

At any time prior to the due date for submission of bids, the Purchaser may, for
any reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification
requested by a prospective bidder, modify the bidding documents by
amendment.

All prospective bidders are expected to surf the website before formulating and
submitting their bids to take cognizance of the amendments.

Custom Duty Exemption Certificate will be provided from the Institute for
availing Custom Duty Exemption in trams of notification No. 51/96-Custom
dated 23-07-1996, amended by notification No. 43/2017 dated 30-06-2017,
further amended by notification No. 42/2022 dated 13-07-2022, as amended
from time to time in case of imported items per OM No. F.4/1/2021-PPD dated
01-09-2021.

Yours sincerely,

\Y
Assistant’ Registrar hase)

National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 6 ---
 

     

No.F.NITA. 1 1(29-ME)y/Startup SRG/SERB-PROJECT(L2yP.Singh/2023/6499-9¢

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Date: 2/10 /2023

2. General Terms & Conditions:

2.1

2.2

2.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

Sake

2.8

5|Page

The rates quoted by the Supplier/Bidders should preferably be on
basic price, Annual Maintenance Charges(if applicable), packing,
forwarding, freight, Insurance and all other incidental charges
including delivery of the Materials at National Institute of Technology,
Agartala.

All taxes and duties will be paid extra and such amounts of
mandatory/statutory taxes & duties shall be explicitly mentioned in
BOQ while submitting of bid. If GST amount not quoted in the BOQ
(price bid), the total cost will be treated as inclusive of GST.

Price has to be filled through CPP portal as per BOQ
(https://www.eprocure.gov.in). The scanned copy of Price Bid, dully filled in,
has to be uploaded on the above e-procurement site. The prices filled in the e-
procurement site will be treated final and shall be binding to the vendor.

Insurance: The Goods supplied under the Contract shall be fully insured against
any loss or damage incidental to manufacture or acquisition, transportation,
storage and delivery up to the final destination.

All the Machines/Equipments/goods will be covered by Annual Maintenance
Contract (AMC) / CMC/ Warranty beyond the normal warranty/guarantee period.
Interested bidders are requested to quote price against AMC/Extended warranty
as an optional item in the price bid. Optional items will not be taken into
consideration while selecting L; bidder.

AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty will be awarded after completion of standard
warranty period. AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty may be carried out only after
receipt of confirmation letter from this Institute. The Institute will not be
responsible for any due payments / obligations may arise as a result of
execution of AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty without confirmation letter from this
Institute.

Conditional discount, if any, offered by the bidder shall not be considered at the
time of evaluation.

The bidders who are registered as a Micro or Small Enterprise under
NSIC/MSME organization of Govt. of India for exemption of submitting
EMD/Bid security must enclose relevant documentary proof of
authentication of their firm’s registered as a Micro or Small Enterprise
as per latest definitions under MSME rules, Govt. of India.


--- Page 7 ---
 

2.10

2.11

2.12

6|Page

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME
rules, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover"
criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the offered products, it
would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria. In case any
bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover /Experience Criteria, the supporting
documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded with technical
bid.

If the bidder is a Startup, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of
"Bidder Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the
offered products, it would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover"
criteria. In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover / Experience
Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be
uploaded with technical bid.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala is following and abide with the Public
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017, DIPP, MoCI Order No.
P-45021/2/2017-B.E.II dated 15th June 2017 and subsequent amendments to
the order. Accordingly preference will be given to the Make in India products
while evaluating the bids, however, it is the sole responsibility of the bidder(s)
to specify the product quoted by them is of Make in India product along with
respective documentary evidence as stipulated in the aforesaid order in the
technical bid itself. A self-declaration as per Annexure- G should be enclosed in
the technical bid.

On site Comprehensive Warranty:

e The successful bidder shall provide a Comprehensive Warranty for minimum
period of 3(three) years (not applicable for consumable item(s)) after
thinstallation and commissioning of the instrument / software/items. If within
a warranty period after installation any such product or component is proven
to be defective such product shall be repaired or replaced by the
supplier/vendor. Such repair and replacement shall be sole obligation of
supplier/vendor. Supplier / vendor shall be responsible for payment for all
charges (to-and-fro) for repair/ replacement. Any design defects or
installations deficiencies or any outer defects, if noticed during the warranty/
maintenance period, shall be rectified promptly by the successful bidder with
no cost at all the places, which also includes the field installations.

e Down-time call attendance should be within 48 hrs.

e In case the Equipment / System remains non-operational for more than 5
days then warranty period will be extended for the equal period for which
Equipment / System remained non-operational. Warranty extension in such
case shall be done without prejudice to any other Term & condition of the
contract.


--- Page 8 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

2.13

The documentary evidence of the bidders qualification to perform the contract if
the bid is accepted shall establish to the purchasers satisfaction that:

 

 

(a) | The bidder meets the qualification criteria listed in bidding documents, if any.

 

(b) | Bidder who doesn’t manufacture the goods it offers to supply shall submit

2.15

2.16

eae

2.18

7|Page

Manufacturers’ Authorization Form using the form specified in the bidding
document to demonstrate that it has been duly authorized by the
manufacturer of the goods to quote and / or supply the goods/services.

The successful bidder has to furnish “Performance Guarantee/Security” (not
applicable for consumable item(s)) for an amount specified in the enquiry by E-
Payment System to NITA Account within 15(fifteen) days of intimation of
contract/supply order.

Alternatively, “Performance Guarantee/Security” will be retained by the Institute
from the billed amount of the contract/supply order which will be released two
months after the completion of warranty period (not applicable for consumable
item(s)).

Delivery Schedule: As per e-Tender.

The item(s)/goods are required to be delivered at the indenting Department of
National Institute of Technology, Agartala, and must be dispatched within
specified days from the date of placement of the supply/purchase/work order.

If the supplier fails to Supply, Install and Commission the system/instrument as
per specifications mentioned in the order within the due date, the Supplier is
liable to pay liquidated damages of 0.5% of order value per week of delay
subject to a maximum of 3%, as the case may be, beyond the due date. Such
money will be deducted from any amount due or which may become due to the
supplier. Any exemption towards delay without LD can be resolved through
mutual consent under exceptional circumstances.

Force Majeure: Notwithstanding the provisions of clauses relating to Extension
of Time, Penalty and Termination for Default the Supplier shall not be liable for
forfeiture of its Performance Security, Liquidated Damages or Termination for
Default, if and to the extent that, its delay in performance or other failure to
perform its obligations under the Contract is the result of an event of Force
Majeure.

Evaluation of Bid: The Technical Bid shall be evaluated on the basis of technical
and other parameters usually taken in to consideration. Financial bid shall be
evaluated on the basis of financial parameters. Govt. of India rules shall be
taken in to account for evaluating both technical and financial bids.

The successful bidder(s) may be required to execute a contract on the basis of
evaluation as per annexure(s) (as applicable).

 


--- Page 9 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

2,19

2.20

2.21

2.22

2.23

2.24

2.25

2.26

8|Page

NIT Agartala will reject a proposal for award if it determines that the Bidder
recommended for award has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt,
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices in competing for the Contract in
question.

The bidder has to submit valid trade license, GST registration certificate, Last
filled ITR and last filed GST return.

Payment: 100% will be made in INR (Indian National Rupees) after
successful Installation, Commissioning of item against submission
of Performance Guaranty (PG) otherwise an equal amount of PG
will be retained by the Institute till the completion of warranty
obligations.

Note: All payments due under the contract shall be paid after deduction of
statutory levies at source (like ESIC, IT (TDS), GST, LBT / Octroi etc.), wherever
applicable.

In the event of any dispute arising out of the bid or from the resultant contract,
the decision of the Competent Authority, National Institute of Technology,
Agartala shall be final.

The bid document/resultant contract will be interpreted under Indian Laws.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala will not take any responsibility for
arranging road permit/way bill or clearance from tax department for delivery of
goods. All such requirements should be completed by the bidder for delivery of
goods at National Institute of Technology, Agartala. GST payment, if required,
should be paid by successful bidder and if GST not paid, National Institute of
Technology, Agartala will deduct the applicable amount from successful bidder’s
bills and pay the same to Tax Authority. If there is any mandatory tax(es) other
than GST/other taxes mentioned in this tender document, imposed by State
Govt., the same may also be deducted from the bills of the successful bidder, as
applicable.

Competent Authority of National Institute of Technology, Agartala
reserves the right to cancel the entire e-tendering process at any
stage of the procurement process without mentioning any reason.

Legal disputes, if any with NIT Agartala will be restricted within the
jurisdiction of Agartala only.

Yours sincerely,

 
       

Assistant Regi mena (Purchase)
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 10 ---
 

 

No.F.NITA.11(29-ME)/Startup SRG/SERB-PROJECT(L2)/P.Singh/2023 /S5W99-9¢

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Date: 0'F/ tO /2023

   

3. Special Terms & Conditions:

3.1

3.2

3.3

a4

3.5

3.6

3.7

3.8

3.9
3.10

3.11

9|Page

Acceptance of Technical bid strictly depends on National Institute of Technology,
Agartala’s requirements credentials, manufacturing capability, quality control
systems, past performance, after-sales service, financial background,
commercial terms & conditions etc. of the supplier(s).

Detailed Specifications, brand, make, model & parts number, tolerance limit,
resolution, corresponding ISO standard etc. of quoted Equipments/Items should
be mentioned with supported leaflet/catalogue/brochure and list of buyers for
acceptance of technical bid.

The technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted through
Www.eprocure.gov.in. The technical bids shall be opened and evaluated by the
competent committee/authority. At the second stage, financial bids of only the
technically qualified bidders shall be opened for further evaluation and
recommendations for awarding the purchase order/contract.

It may specifically be mentioned whether quotation is strictly as per terms and
conditions of the tender. Deviation, if any, must be spelt out specifically in
technical bid. In the absence of this, the quotation may be rejected.

Installation & Commissioning: Within 15 (fifteen) days after delivery (if
applicable).

The Quantity of each Item(s)/Equipment(s) may increase (as per Govt. Norms)
or decrease at the time of issued of Purchase / Supply / Work Order. The
Institute reserves right to purchase partly or not to purchase any item / cancel
the entire process at any stage of procurement process.

Penalty: Penalty will be charged @ 0.5 % of per week except for force majeure
conditions for the unexecuted part of the supply/work order.

Arbitration: All disputes should be attempted to be resolve mutually between the
National Institute of Technology, Agartala and the suppliers failing which
jurisdiction of any Court of Agartala shall be applicable.

The successful bidder has to give at least 3-4 days on site training for each &
every items/equipments by Certified Person (if required).

Model No. of the product should be given with catalogue (if any).
Items/Goods should be sent through Registered Transporter (preferably).
Bidders are required to upload a declaration on letter head stating that the

bidder has not been biack-listed & holiday listed by any
Ministry/Department/Organization.


--- Page 11 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

3.12

3.13

3a

10|Page

Bidder(s) is/are required to upload a_ self-certificate as per
applicability (Annexure- E or F) regarding offered item(s) as per Office
Memorandum No. 6/18/2019-PPD dated 23-07-2022 & 24-07-2020
and Office Memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8" February,
2021 issued by Department of Expenditure, Procurement Policy
Division, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India.

Bidders are requested to provide valid e-mail ID and phone number for further
communication.

Bank A/C in the Exact Name of Bidder/Firm/Supplier with Name, A/C No., IFSC
code must be furnished with technical bid.

Yours sincerely,

yoo ahrelo3

Assistant Registrar (Purchase)
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 12 ---
Anneruns- 7° (6s)

Technical Specifications for an integrated set up under Conversion analysis of the syngas production
from single-use absorbent waste materials and its applicability for power generation in
industries /hospitals through RCCI combustion comprises of

-> Data acquisition system with piezo sensors and piczo powering unit

-> Electronic Control Unit for engine test rig

-> Emission Analyser

-> Single Cylinder four stroke Diesel Engine test setup with eddy current dynamometer

The equipment should consist of the following:

1. Engine: single-cylinder, four-stroke, water-cooled design, with a displacement range of

500-1000 ce and a self-start arrangement.

Modified to RCCI Engine [(Waste to Energy (WTE): Gas Produced from Waste/Bio-

waste; green /grey Hydrogen/ Acetylene gas/Methane engine)| up to 7.5 Ps to 10Ps or

better. Include an exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) assembly with EGR rate measurement
and a control system for NOx control.

3. The engine's programmable open ECM system should support RCCI hydrogen
operation, dual fuel methane/acetylene/alcohol operation, and low-temperature
combustion (LTC) mode with dedicated RCCI engine operation

4. ‘The test rig should have a dedicated urea/methanol injection system into the exhaust,

i)

with adjustable quantity variation.

5. RCCI engine should be capable of operating in dual fuel and LTC modes for constant
torque applications

6. Engine in the test rig should be capable to run on different fuels, including but not
limited to diesel, biodiesel, alcohol, hydrogen, Waste to Energy (WTE): gas produced
from waste/bio-waste, Liquefied Petroleam Gas (LPG), Compressed Natural Gas
(CNG) and Acetylene gas. Overall, the test rig is to be configured to run on RCCI modes
of operation with Open ECU systems, urea injection system, All the necessary injections
systems for injecting liquid and gaseous fuel along with all necessary safety features
(particularly for hydrogen gas) must be integrated in the test rig.

7. The engine should be coupled with an eddy current dynamometer capable of handling a
loading capacity 10-20% higher than the engine's power output.

8. The necessary gas injection system, including manifold/port and gas cylinders, should be
provided. The gas cylinder should have a capacity of 65-70 liters or more, filled with 10
kg or more of gas, with a working pressure of 335-350 bar or more and a delivery
pressure of 100-150 PSI or more. The system should also include a regulator, refill valve,
stand, trolley for easy transportation, delivery and tank pressure gauges, and dry and wet
flame arrestors.

9, Manifold/port/TBI liquid injection system: A second fuel tank with a liquid injection
system is required. It should include a low-pressure pump, wiring harness, ECU, and a
second fuel (liquid) injection system with high-impedance saturated injectors. The system
should be capable, through software control, of providing peak and hold current.
Additionally, a burette with a stand and fucl flow measurement capability should be
included.

ee.


--- Page 13 ---
EY

10. The setup should provide both manual/computerized measurement systems for studying
RCCI engine performance, including parameters such as brake power, indicated power,
frictional power, BMEP (Brake Mean Effective Pressure), IMEP (Indicated Mean
Effective Pressure), brake thermal efficiency, indicated thermal efficiency, mechanical
efficiency, volumetric efficiency, specific fuel consumption, air/fuel ratio, heat balance,
and combustion analysis.

11. Combustion studies like P-0, P-V Plots, Log PV, combustion noise of rate of pressure
raise, combustion mass fraction burnt, mean combustion gas temperature, fuel line
injection pressure, ignition delay, combustion duration, cycle variations (up to 100
combustion cycles), plots and tabulated data. An engine performance and combustion
analysis software, such as labview or an equivalent software, should be provided for data

analysis.

The equipment should capable for the empirical investigation of the following

e RCCI LTC with Open ECU Mapping

e Single fuel, secondary fuel, multi-fuel engine characteristics study

e Staged injection and secondary fuel tables for parallel injection

e Control of second fuel injection duration and timing

e MAPT (Manifold Absolute Pressure Temperature), CLT (Coolant Temperature), RPM,
Lube oil temperature and user configurable sensor display and calibration

e Closed-loop lambda control (wideband and narrowband) displayed in AFR (Air-Fuel
Ratio), O2 (Oxygen), and Lambda units

e Testing at different EGR conditions

e Urea Injection into exhaust and its impact on emissions

e Advanced diagnostic functions for engine analysis and troubleshooting


--- Page 14 ---
@ Major Components Details and Deliverable

     
  
 

 

  
  
    
    
  
   

COMPONENTS DETAILS
Engine and 1 cylinder, 4 stroke, 500-1000 CC capacity, Power: 7 PS tol0Ps or

Dynamometer better with capability to ran on multi-fuels such as gas produced from
waste, Methane, Hydrogen, Acetylene gas, LPG and diesel, biodiesel,
alcohol and programmable open ECU. Also, fitted with Bidirectional
Eddy current type water cooled with loading unit of capacity20%
higher than engine capacity, 5000 rpm or better
RCCI gas produced from waste/ Hydrogen/Acetelyne/Methane,

RCCI LTC

Alcohol PFI manifold and EGR assembly.
Pressure Reducing | PRV to reduce the cylinder pressure of 150 bar (for all the gases
Valve (PRV) mentioned earlier) to the injector pressure of 1.5-2.5 bar or more.

Gas cylinder Any one cylinders with 10-60 Ltrs capacity and its operational demo

preferable gas from waste, H2/ Acetylene one is must.

Urea/Water Injection into exhaust system independently operate and
vary avy

Must be of high-grade stainless steel (resistant to corrosion)

High impedance saturate H2/Methane gas injectors 2 No. or more
Also, additional peak and hold current up to 8A, software configurable
Combustion
pressuresensor

   
     

    
 
 
 
  

  
 

 
    

    
  
 

   
  
      
  
  
   
    
 

 
 
     
      
     
 
  
    
 

high impedance solenoid injector 2 or more
Should be able to measure the RCC] H2 combustion pressure up-to
5000 to 15000 PSI continuous or intermittent. It should be fitted with

low noise cable.

Crank angle sensor | Minimum resolution: 1°, To be able to operate at a minimum of 6000
RPM or more with TDC pulse.

ECU Solenoid injector driver with programmable ECU software and
calibration support.
ECU AND SOFTWARE

Open ECU System | Packaged having required input and output pins separate for gas and
withcover Wiring liquid fuel injections. Open ECU system should have the following
harness sensors features:

As per the actual need for ECU synchronization with the engine, Crank
angle sensor, throttle position sensor, Manifold Absolute Pressure
(MAP) sensor, engine lube oil temperature sensor, Port fuel injection
throttle body assembly with sensors, and other requirements.
The output display window should include — crank angle, Start of
Ignition (SOI), Duration of Injection (DOD, engine speed, load,engine
lube oil temperature, Air-fuel ratio, equivalence air-fuel ratio, Throttle
Position Sensor (TPS), MAP, 3D plots, Coolant Temperature (CLT)
Sensor, real time plot, ete. Advanced Diagnostic feature, User defined

  

  
   
    

 

  
   
   
    
    
    
    
 

 
 
    
 

    
 

  

Software tool for

EMS ECU

    

   
 

 
  

variable, strategy and programming.

Communication Communication with ECU and engine.
cable

  


--- Page 15 ---
Data acquisition Suitable data acquisition device, preferably multifunction DA
q q P J
device device such as USB-6210, 16-bit, 250kS/s.
Five Gas Analyzer | Higher Standard five gas analyzer (HC, CO, NOx, On, CO2)

 

 

type industry standard

Display: LCD, Interface: USB

Measurement Data

CO: 0-15% vol with 0.001% resolution

HC: 0-20000 ppm (1 ppm resolution for up to 2000 rpm and 10 ppm
resolution for 2000 ppm to 20000 ppm)

NO,: 0-5000 ppm vol. (1 ppm vol. resolution)

COx 0-20% vol. (0.1% vol. resolution)

O>: 0-25% vol (0.01 % yol.)

Must suitable for lab purpose continuous load and free acceleration

type
ARAL /MORTH approved
Authorized Datasheet of OEM of gas five gas analyzer component is

must

Technical Specifications of Gas Injector Open ECU
It should be capable of

SI as well as CI Engine mode run: 1 Cylinders, 4 Stroke

Multi-Fuels Port Injection Alcohol, H2, LPG, CNG, WCBG, and Producer Gas
Fuel Control with fuel table

Adjustable injection timing control

Adjustable ignition control, Built in igniters 2-4 cylinder internal and external supportable
ignition driver

Staged Injection (parallel injection).

Secondary fuel table (Map Switching/Switch injection control)

Closed loop target lambda (AFR) control

LTF STF Control

Analog inputs 7-10 or more qty user configurable

Digital output 8 -10 or more qty user configurable

PWM/On-Off/ Advanced Control, Idle Air Control

Advanced diagnostic features

User config. sensors and actuators

Barometric Pressure, Acceleration, Deceleration, Battery, Air Temp, Coolant Temp
and Starting compensations, [AC
PC Based Tuning Software, Ethernet Connectivity (Wi-Fi Capable)

Up to 20 Hours of Data Logging, Extensive Failsafe Functions


--- Page 16 ---
@ Operating voltage: 6V-22 V DC

Typical operating temperature range (depends on loading): (-20°F to 165 °F) (30°C to
75°)
Supply Specifications Max Total External Current Draw: 1.0 A (for external sensors)

Input / Output

6 Dedicated Inputs (Crank, Cam, IAT, ECT, MAP, TPS)

6 Analog Sensor Inputs (0-5 Volt) — Up to 2 Temperature Inputs
4 Switched Inputs — Up to 2 Frequency Inputs

10 Configurable On/Off Outputs — 8 PWM Outputs
Dedicated Tachometer Driver

Idle Air Control

Individual Cylinder Trims

Dual Sensor Closed Loop O2 Control with Adaptive Learning
Sequential or Semi-Sequential Injection

2 Saturated Injector Drivers

Coil-On-Plug or Wasted Spark Ignition

2 Coil Drivers with Built-In Igniters

Injector Driver Specifications:

Type of Driver: Saturated or Peak and Hold low side driver (software selectable)
Number of Drivers: 2-8

Driver Protection: Internally current limited to 10.0 amps per driver

Maximum Current (before shutdown): 10.0 amps

Peak Current Maximum: 8.0 amps, Hold Current Maximum: 3.0 amps

Ignition Coil Driver Specifications

Type of Driver: Inductive ignition driver

Number of Drivers: Up to 2-4 direet coil drivers (no external igniter required, can drive
inductive coil directly)

Up to 8 smart coil or external igniters

Driver Protection: Internally current limited to 10,0 amps per driver

Max Current (before shutdown): 10.0 amps

Digital Output Specifications

Number of Drivers: Up to 10

Type of Driver: Low side driver, on/off (all Digital Outputs)

Pulse Width Modulated (Digital Ourputs 1-8)

Driver Protection: Internally current limited to 3.0 amps per driver or 15.0 amps total for
all drivers

aan


--- Page 17 ---
@

e Drivers Max Current (before shutdown): 3.0 amps per driver or 15.0 amps across all
drivers

e Dedicated Tach Output Specifications Duty Cycle: 30% 'on' (Vbat) and 70% ‘off (Oy)

¢ Voltage: V bat

Digital Input Specifications

e Active Voltage High: Greater than 3.25 volts

e~ Active Voltage Low: Less than 2.0 volts

e Frequency Input Range (Digital Inputs 1-4): 0-6000 Hz, Prequency must be greater than
0.5 Hz to register something other than 0 Hz.

e Max Continuous Voltage Input; 22V

¢ Digital inputs activated with 5-22 volts are pulled low internally)

e Digital inputs activated with GND are pulled high internally

e Trigger/Sync Input Specifications: When Configured as Hall Effect Sensor

¢ Max Input Voltage: Up to Vbat o Input Voltage Threshold to Trigger: Greater than 4.0
volts high side, less than 400 mV low side: When Configured as Variable Reluctance
Sensor

¢ Max Input Voltage: 100 volts o Min Input Voltage to trigger; +/- 250 mV (0 to peak)

¢ Sensor and User Data Filter Characteristics Filter Type: Single-Pole, low-pass digital filter
with configurable break frequencies

e Filter Break Frequencies based


--- Page 18 ---
Other proposed details for tender document
Pre-Qualification Criteria

e All pre-installation requirements are to be provided by the bidder.

e Bidder/OEM Must supply at least 3-5 or more Performance Satisfaction Certificate
from reputed institute like IITs, NITs, Govt. Engg. Colleges, University or reputed
engg along with Offer of same product

© Bidder should be the OEM or an Authorized distributor of OEM and shall submit a
letter of from the OEM (MAF) for this specific tender only.

Buyer Additional Terms and Conditions (ATC)

e Bidder / OEM Must have supplied at least 3-5 similar test rigs with open ECU'S in last 3
years & must have supplied at least one system with exactly same specifications to any
reputed Government Institute. Proof of the same demonstrating order value along with
satisfactory installation certificates should be submitted.

e Test Results for the following must be submitted along with technical bid

© Performance test results including AFR, SFC, Thermal efficiency & details of energy
share for cach fuel in & RCC] MODES using diesel with hydrogen injection or
acetylene injection

© Calculation and Calibrations sheet for fuel flow of RCCI fuels in LPM, kg/hr must
be provided

e If required during the technical evaluation, a site visit or demonstration of all
components/instruments quoted by the bidder should be arranged by the bidder at their
own cost for technical inspection. An undertaking of the same should be attached and
fulfilled.


--- Page 19 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.11(29-ME)/Startup SRG/SERB-PROJECT(L2)/P. Singh/2023/5W22-9¢ Date: 2#/ LO /2023

ANNEXURE — B

       

PRICE BID

As per BOQ

12|Page


--- Page 20 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

samen eee a RIS
No.F.NITA.11(29-ME)/Startup SRG/SERB-PROJECT(L2)/P.Singh/2023 Date: / (2023
ANNEXURE - C

Documents for Comprising the Bid

Name of the Firm / Agency / Dealer / Supplier with full

‘ a Yes / No Yes / NA
address including contact number and email id etc. veeyno | Yoana

Trade License issued by Government / Statutory Body or
Company Registration on the item(s) related to this tender. | Y°s/ No vee 7 Ten

La GST Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder. Yes / No Yes / NA
4 PAN Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder Yes/No | Yes/NA

    

Document
Submitted

    
   
         
     
     
      
  
 
  

 

 

Financial Solvency issued by Bank(as per RBI guidelines) ws

(in case of estimated cost is Rs.25.00 lakhs and above). wen fe_- 5 Wey

Up to date GST return / any other tax clearance certificate.

(last filed GST return) AEN ean
Yes / No Yes / NA
Yes / No Yes / NA

Yes / No

 
   
 

   
 
 
 

Up to date Income Tax Return (Last filled ITR)

 

“Bid Security Declaration form” on Company Letter Head
to be uploaded along with Technical bid).

  
   

Service Support details (if applicable)
Certification of holiday and non-black listing (Self

 

 

 

 
 
  
  

Certification as per memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD
dated 8 February 2021, Dept. of Expenditure, Ministry of

 
 
   
   

Proprietary Certificate from OEM to be uploaded along Yes / No Yes / NA
with the Technical Bid in case of Proprietary items

Manufacturers Authorization Form (MAF) (if applicable) Yes / No

a | Certificate under MSME, NSIC, Make-in-India & Startup as Yes / No Yes / NA

 
  
   
  
 

 

     
    
 

per Govt. of India Norms (if applicable).

 

 

Experience, if any, with govt. sector /Public Undertaking
/Private sector (if applicable) (May be relaxed for MSME, | Yes/No Yes / NA

   

Any other criteria related to this tender.

Supplier/Firm/Bidder should accept all Terms &
Conditions and specification of the items given in the
Tender Document.

        

   
 

  
 
 
 

Yes / No

 

(Signature of the bidder)

13|Page


--- Page 21 ---
TS Wer Va STA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

Sennen eee EEE —=yEEEEEEEE E77
No.F.NITA.11(29-ME)/Startup SRG/SERB-PROJECT(L2)/P.Singh/2023 Date: / /2023

Bid Securing Declaration Form
DORE 8a astra aniteeeconararcnee Tender Ret No: ..0c:--:c-c-scsdecseties. LOnOG? UD? sa 5yecscorsinnaecuevats

To (insert complete name and address of the purchaser)
I/We. The undersigned, declare that:

I/We understand that, according to your conditions, bids must be supported by a Bid Securing
Declaration.

I/We accept that I/We may be disqualified from bidding for any contract with you for a period of one
year from the date of notification if | am /We are in a breach of any obligation under the bid conditions,
because I/We

a) have withdrawn/modified/amended, impairs or derogates from the tender, my/our Bid during the
period of bid validity specified in the form of Bid; or

b) having been notified of the acceptance of our Bid by the purchaser during the period of bid validity
(i) fail or reuse to execute the contract, if required, or (ii) fail or refuse to furnish the Performance
Security, in accordance with the Instructions to Bidders.

I/We understand this Bid Securing Declaration shall cease to be valid if | am/we are not the successful
Bidder, upon the earlier of (i) the receipt of your notification of the name of the successful Bidder; or
(ii) thirty days after the expiration of the validity of my/our Bid.

Signed: (insert signature of person whose name and capacity are shown)

in the capacity of (insert legal capacity of person signing the Bid Securing Declaration)

Name: (insert complete name of person signing he Bid Securing Declaration)

Duly authorized to sign the bid for an on behalf of (insert complete name of Bidder)

Dated on day of (insert date of signing)

Corporate Seal (where appropriate)

(Note: In case of a Joint Venture, the Bid Securing Declaration must be in the name of all partners to
the Joint Venture that submits the bid)

14|Page


--- Page 22 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

eee
No.F.NITA.11(29-ME)/Startup SRG/SERB-PROJECT(L2)/P.Singh/2023 Date: / /2023
Annexure-E

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(as applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated
23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021
regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules (GFRs), 2017.

 

 

 

Item Name: |

Enquiry No.:_|

WS oeicccenue cen wneneawncsccvanansaauinensiabexennnens (name of the bidder company) have
read the clauses pertaining to the Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public
Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref. F.No.6/18/2019-
PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder
of a country that shares a land border with India.

We hereby certify that we are not from such a country and eligible to be considered for
this tender.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment, (if any),
by any bidder(s) shall lead to commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-Agartala)

For and behalf of .............ecssccesseee (Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

15|Page


--- Page 23 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

sein een hese aattin g  ee i a erpms
No.F.NITA.11(29-MEy/Startup SRG/SERB-PROJECT(L2)/P.Singh/2023 Date. / /2023
Annexure-F
(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(as applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated
23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021
regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules (GFRs), 2017.

ese O(a ie
pore | ee ee

WPS BS wiscrcacsssicnuasrsionweases ernie rerouuets (name of the bidder company) have
read the clauses pertaining to the Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public
Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref. F.No.6/18/2019-
PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder
of a country that shares a land border with India.

We are from such a country which shares a land border with India & have been
registered with the Competent Authority as specified in the above-said order. We hereby
certify that we fulfill all requirements in this regard and are eligible to be considered.

Evidence of valid registration by the Competent Authority is attached.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment, (if any),
by any bidder(s) shall lead to commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-Agartala)

POF fis SGNGIE OF f.0 soe soo cases eeeeesiaveuweicacaues (Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

16|Page


--- Page 24 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

a i eae ag et pe tte
No.F.NITA.11(29-MEyStartup SRG/SERB-PROJECT(L2)/P.Singh/2023 Date: / /2023
Annexure -G

Self-Certification on the letterhead of the compan

 

In line with Government Public Procurement Order No. P-45021/2/2017-BE-II dt.
15.06.2017, P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 28.05.2018. P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II)
dated 29.05.2019 and P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 16.09.2020,

WE NCPSDY COLULY THRE icc clecwintescenisnncacinaeanesevanbepameaverntee (Supplier name) are local
supplier meeting requirement of minimum local content................+...060 % defined
in as above orders for the material against Enquiry / Tender No
SUhetihicexienicbuw ed aunmnne nev eNbaveueNi ean enuKiEseS SEs cc chsaeelnree tensa tocmsentee

TREE CCPC Cee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee
PORN R eee RR REE R TRE RR RRR RRR RRR RRR BSB eRe eRe RRR RRR R ROTHER TKR PRC CREE ee
Tee eCeC Cee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee

We also understand false declarations will be in breach of the Code of Integrity under
Rule 175(1)(i)(h) of the General Financial Rules for which a bidder or its successors can
be debarred for up to two years as per Rule 151 (iii) of the General Financial Rules along
with such other actions as may be permitted under law.

Date: Signature:

Place: Name and Designation:
Mobile no:
Office Telephone No:

Email ID: Office Seal

17|Page


--- Page 25 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

sc a Ee
No.F.NITA.11(29-ME)/Startup SRG/SERB-PROJECT(L2)P.Singh/2023 Date: i (2023
Annexure -H

NON BLACKLISTING SELF CERTIFICATE
[To be submitted on letterhead]
I/We hereby certify that the -------------------------------------------- [Name of the company
/ firm] has not been blacklisted/debarred by any Central / State Government / Public

Undertaking / University / Institute on any account in last three years.

I/We also certify that firm will provide material as per the specification given by NIT
Agartala and also abide all the terms and conditions stipulated in the bid document.

I/We also certify that the information given in bid is true and correct in all aspects and in
any case at a later date it is found that any details provided are false and incorrect,
contract given to the concerned firm or participation may be summarily terminated at
any stage, the firm will be blacklisted and NIT Agartala may impose any action as per
the rules.

Date : Name:
Place :

Business Address :

Signature of Service Provider:

Seal of the Service Provider:

18|Page
