
--- Page 1 ---
 
    
    
 
   
 

  

TSS Wala AIT SPAT
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Fax : 0381 254-6360, Website : http// www.nita.ac.in

¥&043-4L ,

E-Tender Notice

Date: 2p / #2. /2025

 
  
  

 

On behalf of National Institute of Technology Agartala, bids are invited in sealed cover from the
reputed resourceful Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/ Authorized Suppliers for supply of item(s)/goods
as per specification mentioned in Annexure of tender document available at our website www.nita.ac.in.

     
     
      
     

   

 
   
  
 

Time and date
of opening of
Technical bid

 
 
  
    
  
     

Estimated
cost

(Rs.)

  
 
  
  

Last date of
receipt of tender

W01q9ag /
quauny..edaq

    
 
   
 

  
   
  

No.F.NITA.13(CSE
-256)/PUR-
CyberSecurity/2024
/

  
    
 

  
  
    

Software for Cyber
Security Laboratory

1 S70 3/2025
Up to 3:00 PM

F/ 042025
At 3:00 PM

 
 
  
   
 

24,00,000.00

 
 

The interested Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/Authorized Suppliers may arrange online
submission of the tender through www.eprocure.gov.in along with scan copy of essential documents mentioned in
the tender document.

      
     
  

Tender(s) is/are to be submitted only online through central public procurement portal ie.
“http://eprocure.gov.in”. All the documents are to be scanned and uploaded along with the tender documents.

Tender sent by any other mode will not be accepted.

Registrar

Registrar \9 she
NIT Agartala
Copy to:

1. The P.S. to the Director for kind information.

2. The Nodal Officer, e-Procurement, NITA with a request to kindly arrange uploading the
Tender Documents in the CPP portal https://eprocure.gov.in/cppp.

3. Mr. Kamal Kanti Paul, System Administrator, Computing & ICT Unit with a request to uploading
the Tender documents in the Institute website site.

4. The Deputy Registrar (F & A).

eee

Registrar
NIT Agartala


--- Page 2 ---
 

 


--- Page 3 ---
TST Weel AAT STRAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

No.F.NITA.13(CSE-256)/PUR-Cyber Security/2024 / 204U3-Ub Date: 2 / 0 27-/2025

 

E- Tender Enquiry

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

IMEVURL AYN. Coo

Name of the Institute : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TE CHNOLOGY AGARTALA

GST Number of the Institute : 16AAAGNO0550K1ZG

PAN of the Institute : AAAGNOSSOK

TAN of the Institute : SHLNO00719F

DSIR No. . TTU/V/RG-CDE(1053)/2022 dated 18/12/2022

Institute Bank A/C No. 30936141729 (IFSC: SBINO01 1491) under SBI, NIT Agartala
‘Branch.

Name of Department / Branch : Computer Science Engineering Department.

Enquiry / Reference Number : No.F.NITA.13(CSE-256)/PUR-Cyber Security/2024

Some important/Critical dates:

Uploading on CPP Portal and Department’s | Date: 2\ / 02-/2025 Time: 5:00 PM
web-site

Bid submission start date Date: 24 / 02/2025 Time: 5:00 PM
Bid submission end date Date: 1S / 03 /2025 Time: 3:00 PM

Opening of technical bid Date: \¥/ 03 /2025 Time: 3:00 PM

Details of e-Tender Document.

ee

   
  
   

  

 

 
 
     

NIT, Agartala intends to purchase the commodities specified in Annexure enclosed and invites quotations in
accordance with the terms and conditions detailed in the bid document. If you are interested, kindly submit your offer

with prices within the time mentioned above fulfilling all the terms and conditions marked in the bid documents.

\
| gael ete

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

Encl :

(1) Schedule of requirement, specifications, dates etc.
(2) Bid document containing detail terms and conditions.

1 | Page


--- Page 4 ---
    

Wey WaIPIal AIM SERA

National Institute of Technology Agartala

 

2|

p

  
  
  

a

   
  
  

quirements
Description of Goods/Service

Pei. eee
Maltego Professional

Tenable Nessus Professional

XDR : Extended detection and response Lab setup
With proper training of Paraben E3:Email, Maltego
Professional and Nessus Professional software.
Training Duration: Minimum 06 (Six) month
(Details as per Annexure-A)

   
 

  
  

 

License Period

 

AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)
No of User License
3 years 1 User

 

      
 
 

 

   
 

  
 
   
 
 

 

   
 
 

 

 

Specifications and allied Technical Details

Paraben E3: Email
Maltego Professional
Tenable Nessus Professional

XDR : Extended detection and response Lab setup

With proper training of Paraben E3:Email, Maltego Professional and Nessus Professional software.
Training Duration: Minimum 06 (Six) month.

(Details as per Annexure-A)

Estimated Cost
24,00,000.00

 

 

Quotations should be valid for a period of 180 days from the opening date of the technical bid.
Bid Security or EMD: As mentioned in the Notice Inviting Tender or 2% of the Estimated cost of the tender.

Performance Security: The amount of the Performance Security shall be 5%(five percent) of the contract value,
valid up to 60 days after the date of completion of contract obligations including warranty obligations.

Delivery Option: within 60 (sixty) days after receipt of the purchase/work order(s).
Please go through the enclosed “bid document” carefully for other bidding instructions.
For any technical details, you may contact through email-id: buycon6.nit.tr@gembuyer.in & www.nita.ac.in.

Yours sincerely,

IN

¢
Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

}

Re


--- Page 5 ---
 

TS Walrial Ge STAM

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

TO OS
No.F.NITA.13(CSE-256)/PUR-Cyber Security/2024 Date: / /2025

3|Pag

BID DOCUMENT

 

Instructions to the bidders:

1.1

1.2

1.3
1.4

15

1.6

1.8
1.9

Bids are invited through e-tender on behalf of the National Institute of Technology Agartala, Tripura,
Agartala-799046 from the intending bidders for supply of the goods/stores/ equipments/Learning
resources for the Institute as detailed in the enquiry letter.

The bidders should quote their rates in clear terms without ambiguity. The quotation should be only in
Indian Rupees.

The last date & time for submission of the bid is marked in the enquiry.

The bids should be submitted online through www.epuocure.gov.in before the last date & time of
submission specified in tender document.

Bids received after the deadline of receipt indicated in para 1.4 above, shall not be taken into
consideration.

Each bidder shall submit only one bid against one enquiry. A bidder, who submits more than one bid
against single enquiry, shall be disqualified and considered non-responsive.

The bidder has to enclose a check list at per Annexure - C duly filled in along with all relevant/supporting
documents while submitting technical bid through www.eprocure.gov.in.

Opening of Bids by the Purchaser will be done as per the provisions of the e-procurement system.

At any time prior to the due date for submission of bids, the Purchaser may, for any reason, whether at its
own initiative or in response to a clarification requested by a prospective bidder, modify the bidding
documents by amendment.

All prospective bidders are expected to surf the website before formulating and submitting their bids to
take cognizance of the amendments.

Custom Duty Exemption Certificate will be provided from the Institute for availing Custom Duty
Exemption in trams of notification No. 51/96-Custom dated 23-07-1996, amended by notification No.
43/2017 dated 30-06-2017, further amended by notification No. 42/2022 dated 13-07-2022, as
amended from time to time in case of imported item as per OM No. F.4/1/2021-PPD dated 01-09-
2021.

General Terms & Conditions:

2.1

oe

ao

2.4

ead

2.6

ae

2.8

The rates quoted by the Supplier/Bidders should preferably be on basic price, Annual Maintenance
Charges (if applicable), packing, forwarding, freight, Insurance and all other incidental charges
including delivery of the Materials at National Institute of Technology, Agartala.

All taxes and duties will be paid extra and such amounts of mandatory/statutory taxes & duties shall
be explicitly mentioned in BOQ while submitting of bid. If GST amount not quoted in the BOQ
(price bid), the total cost will be treated as inclusive of GST.

Price has to be filled through CPP portal as per BOQ (https://www.eprocure.gov.in). The scanned copy of

Price Bid, dully filled in, has to be uploaded on the above e-procurement site. The prices filled in the e-
procurement site will be treated final and shall be binding to the vendor.

Insurance: The Goods supplied under the Contract shall be fully insured against any loss or damage
incidental to manufacture or acquisition, transportation, storage and delivery up to the final destination.

License Validity of the Software: Licenses validity of the software(s) should be 03 (three) years from
the date of Installation.

All the goods/software will be covered by Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC) / CMC/ Warranty period
of 3 years.

AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty will be awarded after completion of standard warranty /AMC period.
AMC / Extended Warranty may be carried out only after receipt of confirmation letter from this Institute.

The Institute will not be responsible for any due payments / obligations may arise as a result of execution
of AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty without confirmation letter from this Institute.

Conditional discount, if any, offered by the bidder shall a at the time of evaluation.


--- Page 6 ---
 

2,19

211

a:42

2.13

2.14

 
   
 
     

2.15

2.16

4 Daoes
rags

TST Weel GIT SPAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

The bidders who are registered as a Micro or Small Enterprise under NSIC/MSME organization of
Govt. of India for exemption of submitting EMD/Bid security must enclose relevant documentary
proof of authentication of their firm’s registered as a Micro or Small Enterprise under
NSIC/MSME organization of Govt. of India.

If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME rules, the bidder shall be
exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is
OEM of the offered products, it would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria. In
case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover /Experience Criteria, the supporting documents to
prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded with technical bid.

If the bidder is a Startup, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover" criteria
and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the offered products, it would also be exempted from
the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria. In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover /
Experience Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded
with technical bid.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala is following and abide with the Public Procurement (Preference
to Make in India), Order 2017, DIPP, MoCI Order No. P-45021/2/2017-B.E.II dated 15th June 2017 and
subsequent amendments to the order. Accordingly preference will be given to the Make in India products
while evaluating the bids, however, it is the sole responsibility of the bidder(s) to specify the product
quoted by them is of Make in India product along with respective documentary evidence as stipulated in
the aforesaid order in the technical bid itself. A self-declaration as per Annexure- G should be enclosed in
the technical bid.

On site Comprehensive Warranty /AMC Support:

e The successful bidder shall provide a warranty/AMC support for all software with technical support for
minimum period of 3 years after the installation and commissioning of the software / items. If within a
warranty/AMC period, after installation any such product or component is proven to be
defective/malfunctioning such product shall be repaired or replaced by the supplier/vendor. Such repair
and replacement shall be sole obligation of supplier/vendor. Supplier / vendor shall be responsible for
payment for all charges (to-and-fro) for repair/ replacement. Any design defects or installations
deficiencies, if noticed during the warranty/ AMC period, shall be rectified promptly by the successful
bidder with no cost at all the places, which also includes the field installations.

e Access to technical support team will be supplied on priority as and when required.
e There is a technical e-mail management system to track and scheduling the action items.

e Bidder should provide free update/up-gradation for all the software(s) during standard
Warranty/AMC period of three years.
e In case the Software remains non-operational for more than 5 days then warranty period will be

extended for the equal period for which Equipment / System remained non-operational. Warranty
extension in such case shall be done without prejudice to any other Term & condition of the contract.

The documentary evidence of the bidders qualification to perform the contract if the bid is accepted shall
establish to the purchasers satisfaction that:

 
   
 

 

The bidder meets the qualification criteria listed in bidding documents, if any.
Bidder who doesn’t manufacture the goods it offers to supply shall submit Manufacturers’
Authorization Form using the form specified in the bidding document to demonstrate that it has been
duly author.zed by the manufacturer of the goods to quote and / or supply the goods/services.

  

The successful bidder has to furnish “Performance Guarantee/Security” for an amount specified in the
enquiry by E-Payment System to NITA Account within 15(fifteen) days of intimation of contract/supply
order.

Alternatively, “Performance Guarantee/Security” will be retained by the Institute from the billed amount
of the contract/supply order which will be released two months after the completion of warranty period.
Delivery Schedule: As per e-Tender.

The item(s)/goods are required to be delivered at the indenting Department of National Institute of
Technology, Agartala, and must be dispatched within specified days from the date of placement of the
supply/purchase/work order.


--- Page 7 ---
 

TS Wealicht Ae STEAM

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

Bilt

2.18

249

2.20

2utl

ue

2.23

2.24
2.25

2.26

2.27

If the supplier fails to Supply, Install and Commission the system/instrument as per specifications
mentioned in the order within the due date, the Supplier is liable to pay liquidated damages of 0.5% of
order value per week of delay subject to a maximum of 3%, as the case may be, beyond the due date. Such
money will be deducted from any amount due or which may become due to the supplier. Any exemption
towards delay without LD can be resolved through mutual consent under exceptional circumstances.

Force Majeure: Notwithstanding the provisions of clauses relating to Extension of Time, Penalty and
Termination for Default the Supplier shall not be liable for forfeiture of its Performance Security,
Liquidated Damages or Termination for Default, if and to the extent that, its delay in performance or other
failure to perform its obligations under the Contract is the result of an event of Force Majeure.

Evaluation of Bid: The Technical Bid shall be evaluated on the basis of technical and other parameters
usually taken in to consideration. Financial bid shall be evaluated on the basis of financial parameters.
Govt. of India rules shall be taken in to account for evaluating both technical and financial bids.

The successful bidder(s) may be required to execute a contract on the basis of evaluation as per
annexure(s) (as applicable).

NIT Agartala will reject a proposal for award if it determines that the Bidder recommended for award has,
directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices in competing
for the Contract in question.

The bidder has to submit valid trade license, GST registration certificate, Last filled ITR and last filed
GST return.

Payment: 100% will be made in INR (Indian National Rupees) after successful Installation,
Commissioning of item against submission of Performance Guaranty (PG) otherwise an
equal amount of PG will be retained by the Institute till the completion of warranty
obligations.

Note: All payments due under the contract shall be paid after deduction of statutory levies at source
(like ESIC, IT (TDS), GST, LBT / Octroi etc.), wherever applicable.

In the event of any dispute arising out of the bid or from the resultant contract, the decision of the
Competent Authority, National Institute of Technology, Agartala shall be final.

The bid document/resultant contract will be interpreted under Indian Laws.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala will not take any responsibility for arranging road permit/way
bill or clearance from tax department for delivery of goods. All such requirements should be completed by
the bidder for delivery of goods at National Institute of Technology, Agartala. GST payment, if required,
should be paid by successful bidder and if GST not paid, National Institute of Technology, Agartala will
deduct the applicable amount from successful bidder’s bills and pay the same to Tax Authority. If there is
any mandatory tax(es) other than GST/other taxes mentioned in this tender document, imposed by State
Govt., the same may also be deducted from the bills of the successful bidder, as applicable.

Competent Authority of National Institute of Technology, Agartala reserves the right to cancel the
entire e-tendering process at any stage of the procurement process without mentioning any reason.

Legal disputes, if any with NIT Agartala will be restricted within the jurisdiction of Agartala only.

3. Special Terms & Conditions:

3k

Sel

3.3

3.4

5|Page

Acceptance of Technical bid strictly depends on National Institute of Technology, Agartala’s requirements
credentials, manufacturing capability, quality control systems, past performance, after-sales service,
financial background, commercial terms & conditions etc. of the supplier(s).

Detailed Specifications, brand, make, model & parts number, tolerance limit, resolution, corresponding
ISO standard etc. of quoted Items should be mentioned with supported leaflet/catalogue/brochure and list
of buyers for acceptance of technical bid.

A sheet along with bid document should be submitted for certification of compliance on the
technical specifications as given in Annexure-A by the bidder.

The technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted through www.eprocure.gov.in. The technical
bids shall be opened and evaluated by the competent committee/authority. At the second stage, financial
bids of only the technically qualified bidders shall be opened for further evaluation and recommendations
for awarding the purchase order/contract.

te


--- Page 8 ---
 

3.5
3.6

3.7

3.8

3.9

3.10
3.11
3:12

3.14
3.15

WS Wealth GIA SPA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

It may specifically be mentioned whether quotation is strictly as per terms and conditions of the tender.
Deviation, if any, must be spelt out specifically in technical bid. In the absence of this, the quotation may
be rejected.

Installation & Commissioning: Within 07 (seven) days after delivery.
The Quantity of each Item(s)/Equipment(s) may increase (as per Govt. Norms) or decrease at the time of

issued of Purchase / Supply / Work Order. The Institute reserves right to purchase partly or not to purchase
any item / cancel the entire process at any stage of procurement process.

Penalty: Penalty will be charged @ 0.5 % of per week or part thereof except for force majeure conditions
for the unexecuted part of the supply/work order.

Arbitration: All disputes should be attempted to be resolve mutually between the National Institute of
Technology, Agartala and the suppliers failing which jurisdiction of any Court of Agartala shall be
applicable.

The successful bidder has to give at least 05 days on site training for each items/module at the time of
installation and there is no operational cost till software activation and thereafter.

Model No. of the product should be given with catalogue (if any).
Items/Goods should be sent through Registered Transporter (preferably).

Bidders are required to upload a declaration on letter head stating that the bidder has not been black-listed
& holiday listed by any Ministry/Department/Organization (As per annexure-.

Bidder(s) is/are required to upload a self-certificate as per applicability (Annexure- E or F)
regarding offered item(s) as per Office Memorandum No. 6/18/2019-PPD dated 23-07-2022 & 24-07-
2020 and Office Memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8" February, 2021 issued by
Department of Expenditure, Procurement Policy Division, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India.

Bidders are requested to provide valid e-mail ID and phone number for further communication.

Bank A/C in the Exact Name of Bidder/Firm/Supplier with Name, A/C No., IFSC code must be furnished
with technical bid.

Bidder has to submit annual turnover not less than 12 lakh per year with technical bid for last 3 (three)
years. Bidder also has to submit OEM turnover not less than 96 lakhs per year for last 3(three) years (if
bidder is not OEM).

If bidder itself OEM, has to be submit turnover not less than 96 lakhs per year for last 3 (three) years with
technical bid.

Yours sincerely,

N

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 9 ---
 

    
  
  

Annexure-A

     

No of user
License

 
   
  
 
     
    
    
     
   
   
   
   
  

Approximate
Cost (Includin

 

   

 

  
  
    
 
     
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
  

  
  

Paraben E3:Email
email Forensic Platform to capture date
from the deleted data.
email processing with the eDiscove
Maltego Professional
a comprehensive tool for graphical link analyses.
that should offers real-time data mining and
information gathering, as well as the
» _|gepresentation of this information on a node-
| based graph, making patterns and multiple order
connections between said information easily
ide ntifiable.

 

 
 

  

      
  

wration auditing, malware detectio
fe data discovery etc. It should f
high-speed asset discovery, aiapaiee
‘auditing, target profiling, malware detection,
sensitive data discovery and more.

  

with proper training of Paraben E3:Email, Maltego
Professional and Nessus Professional software.

Training duration: Minimum 6 months

Tentative Training modules:

i) Nessus & Vulnerability Scanning

e Basics of Nessus: Understanding the framework
and its applications.

e Setting up Nessus: Installation, configuration,
and understanding the user interface.

¢ Conducting a vulnerability scan using various
Nessus plugins.

e Understanding and interpreting Nessus scan
results.

¢ Remediation and mitigation strategies based on
Nessus findings.


--- Page 10 ---
 

 

 
 
  
  

  
  
 
  
 
 

underst ding

Maltego.

ysis with Paraben:
ry, evidence gathering, and data

Vand interpreting results from Paraben

nto: Maltego:& Social Network Analysis
Basics of Maltego: Understanding the tool and its
applications in

data mining and network analysis.
tego: Installation, configuration, and
the user interface.

* Conducting network analysis with Maltego:
Understanding entity, transform, and graph theory,
and conducting practical data: mining and network
analysis exercises.

® Understanding and interpreting results from

iv) Case Studies & Practical Applications * Analysis of
real-world:case studies involving Paraben, Nessus and
Maltego. « Practical sessions: Hands-on practice with

-| all tools, covering a realistic scenario from

vulnerability scanning, digital forensics, to network

analysis. ¢ mini

j project: Using all tools in a practical

cybersecurity scenario.

Trainer Criteria:

1. Educational

Background: A PhD or Master’s degree

in Cybersecurity, Computer Science, Information
Systems, or a related field from a reputed institution.

2. Professional

agencies.

Certifications: Must possess widely

recognized certifications suchas Certified Information
Systems Security Professional (CISSP), Certified Ethical
Hacker (CEH), Certified information Security Manager
(CISM), or Offensive Security Certified Professional
(OSCP). Having more than one of these certifications
would be preferable.

3. Training Experience: A minimum of 10 years of
experience in conducting advanced cybersecurity
training sessions, with a proven track record of
training high-profile organizations or government

4. Practical Experience: At least 12 years in the
cybersecurity field, having worked in high-
responsibility roles such as a Chief Information
Security Officer (CISO), Security Architect, or Lead
Penetration Tester.


--- Page 11 ---
WMS Wear! A SPU

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.13(CSE-256)/PUR-Cyber Security/2024 Date: 7/2025
ANNEXURE - B

PRICE BID

As per BOQ

8|Page


--- Page 12 ---
BI=vaa

yt

 


--- Page 13 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

 

No.F.NITA.13(CSE-256)/PUR-Cyber Security/2024 Date: / /2025

 

ANNEXURE — C

Documents for Comprising the Bid

  
    
   
    
  
  
  
 

Document
Submitted

COMPLIANCE

    

  
 

Name of the Firm / Agency / Dealer / Supplier with full address including
contact number and email id etc.

Trade License issued by Government / Statutory Body or Company
Registration on the item(s) related to this tender. Yes/No Yes/NA

Yes / No Yes/NA

GST Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder. Yes /No
PAN Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder Yes / No
2

Financial Solvency issued by Bank(as per RBI guidelines)

(In case of estimated cost is Rs.25.00 lakhs and above). Yes / No
Up to date GST return / any other tax clearance certificate. (last filed GST
return, GSTR 9 and 9B)

Annual Turnover Yes / No

a Up to date Income Tax Return (Last filled ITR) Ves /No
“Bid Security Declaration form” on Company Letter Head Wes (No
(Scanned copy to be uploaded along with Technical bid).

Service Support details (if applicable) Yes / No
Certification of holiday and non-black listing (Self Certification) (As per

11 Yes / No

Annexure-H)

12 Certification as per memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8 Yes/No
February 2021, Dept. of Expenditure, Minist of Finance, Govt. of India

13 Proprietary Certificate from OEM to be uploaded along with the Technical
as 2 : Yes/No
Bid in case of Proprietary items

Manufacturers Authorization Form (MAF) Yes / No

 

 
     

Yes/NA

Yes/NA

    

  

      
  

Yes/NA

  
   
 

Yes / No Yes/NA

Yes/NA

Yes/NA

 
 

Yes/NA

Yes/NA

Yes/NA

  

Yes/NA

   

        

Yes/NA

  

Yes/NA

     
  

Certificate under MSME, NSIC, Make-in-India & Startup as per Govt. of
India Norms (if applicable).

Yes/No Yes/NA

  
   
  

   
   
   

Experience, if any, with govt. sector /Public Undertaking /Private sector (if
applicable) (May be relaxed for MSME, NSIC & Startup as per Govt. of
India Norm)

Any other criteria related to this tender. West Wo

Supplier/Firm/Bidder should accept all Terms & Conditions and
specification of the items given in the Tender Document.

Yes / No Yes/NA

Yes/NA

Yes / No

       

(Signature of the bidder)

9|Page


--- Page 14 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

sD A Re SS
No.F.NITA.13(CSE-256)/PUR-Cyber Security/2024 Date: / /2025
Annexure-D

Bid Securing Declaration Form

Date omcceh est dusk teen ester Tender Ref. No: ..........0cceeceeeee eee Tender ID: ............0ceece cence

To (insert complete name and address of the purchaser)
I/We. The undersigned, declare that:
I/We understand that, according to your conditions, bids must be supported by a Bid Securing Declaration.

I/We accept that I/We may be disqualified from bidding for any contract with you for a period of one year from the date of
notification if I am /We are in a breach of any obligation under the bid conditions, because I/We

a) have withdrawn/modified/amended, impairs or derogates from the tender, my/our Bid during the period of bid validity
specified in the form of Bid; or

b) having been notified of the acceptance of our Bid by the purchaser during the period of bid validity (i) fail or reuse to
execute the contract, if required, or (ii) fail or refuse to furnish the Performance Security, in accordance with the Instructions
to Bidders. .

I/We understand this Bid Securing Declaration shall cease to be valid if I am/we are not the successful Bidder, upon the
earlier of (i) the receipt of your notification of the name of the successful Bidder; or (ii) thirty days after the expiration of the
validity of my/our Bid.

Signed: (insert signature of person whose name and capacity are shown)

in the capacity of (insert legal capacity of person signing the Bid Securing Declaration)
Name: (insert complete name of person signing he Bid Securing Declaration)

Duly authorized to sign the bid for an on behalf of (insert complete name of Bidder)

Dated on day of (insert date of signing)

Corporate Seal (where appropriate)

(Note: In case of a Joint Venture, the Bid Securing Declaration must be in the name of all partners to the Joint Venture that
submits the bid)

10|Page


--- Page 15 ---
TAS WNP VU STAT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.13(CSE-256)/PUR-Cyber Security/2024 Date: / /2025

Annexure-E

 

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(As applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No.
F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021 regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules
(GFRs), 2017.

[EnguiryNo: |
We MIS. ...cccccececcscecececcseretensesscersasescenereses (name of the bidder company) have read the clauses pertaining to the
Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref.
F.No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country that
shares a land border with India.

We hereby certify that we are not from such a country and eligible to be considered for this tender.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment, (if any), by any bidder(s) shall lead to
commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-Agartala)

For and behalf of .......-....seeeeeeeeeeee (Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

11|Page


--- Page 16 ---
TST WelPTaht GAM SETA

National Institute of Technology Agartala

   

 

a AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)
No.F.NITA.13(CSE-256)/PUR-Cyber Security/2024 Date: / /2025
Annexure-F

 

(Compliance to be submitted in the bidder’s letterhead)
(As applicable)

Sub: Compliance to Government of India order OM No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020 and OM No.
F.18/37/2020-PPD dated 8th February, 2021 regarding restrictions under Rule 144 (XI) of the General Financial Rules
(GFRs), 2017.

We MIS. ..ccscecececccscecccccesccsrersseucseeseaesessoees (name of the bidder company) have read the clauses pertaining to the
Department of Expenditure’s (DoE) Public Procurement Division Order (Public procurement no 1,2 & 3 vide ref.
F.No.6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 & 24.7.2020) regarding restrictions on procurement from a bidder of a country that
shares a land border with India.

We are from such a country which shares a land border with India & have been registered with the Competent Authority
as specified in the above-said order. We hereby certify that we fulfill all requirements in this regard and are eligible to be
considered.

Evidence of valid registration by the Competent Authority is attached.

(Note: Non-compliance of above said Gol Order and its subsequent amendment, (if any), by any bidder(s) shall lead to
commercial rejection of their bids by NIT-Agartala)

For and behalf of ...........:ceceeeeeeeee eee eeeeeeeeee (Name of the bidder)

(Signature, date & seal of an authorized representative of the bidder)

12|Page


--- Page 17 ---
TATA Weel AAT SET AA

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.13(CSE-256)/PUR-Cyber Security/2024 Date: / /2025

Annexure -G

 

Self-Certification on the letterhead of the company

In line with Government Public Procurement Order No. P-45021/2/2017-BE-II dt. 15.06.2017, P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II)
dated 28.05.2018, p-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 29.05.2019 and P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) dated 16.09.2020,

we hereby certify that ..........ceccssssseeretsrssrsrstert ers (Supplier name) are local supplier meeting requirement of
minimum local content........-+++eeseeeeerrees % defined in as above orders for the material against Enquiry / Tender No

Details of the location at which local value addition will be made are as follows:

We also understand false declarations will be in breach of the Code of Integrity under Rule 175(1)(i)(h) of the General
Financial Rules for which a bidder or its successors can be debarred for up to two years as per Rule 151 (iii) of the General
Financial Rules along with such other actions as may be permitted under law.

Date: Signature:
Place: Name and Designation:
Mobile no:

Office Telephone No:
Email ID: Office Seal

13 | Pa ge


--- Page 18 ---
WS Wear A SPR

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

‘No.F.NITA.13(CSE-256)/PUR-Cyber Security2024 ‘Date: ~~ / ~~—*/2025
Annexure -H
NON BLACKLISTING SELF CERTIFICATE
[To be submitted on letterhead]

I/We hereby certify that the -------------------------------------------- [Name of the company / firm] has not been ever
blacklisted/debarred by any Central / State Government / Public Undertaking / University / Institute on any account.

I/We also certify that firm will provide material as per the specification given by NIT Agartala and also abide all the terms
and conditions stipulated in the bid document.

I/We also certify that the information given in bid is true and correct in all aspects and in any case at a later date it is found
that any details provided are false and incorrect, contract given to the concerned firm or participation may be summarily
terminated at any stage, the firm will be blacklisted and NIT Agartala may impose any action as per the rules.

Date : Name:
Place :

Business Address:

Signature of Service Provider:

Seal of the Service Provider:

14|Page
