
--- Page 1 ---
FOURTEENTH JANUARY 2022
A HALF YEARLY MAGAZINE

--- Page 2 ---
TECHNICAL
ENGLISH
2

--- Page 3 ---
EDITOR IN CHIEF
FROM THE EDITOR
Sumita Deb
It is a pleasure that the eleventh issue of Electrazine is being
published in spite of the devastating global pandemic situation
owing to COVID19, a virus that has not only caused severe
causality to human life but has also forced us to restrain
DESIGN TEAM
ourselves completely in our homes. It has gravely affected
every sphere of life and we the teachers are no exception to
Moumita Saha
this. We have to spend hours with our mobile, laptop, tablet
etc allowing only virtual interaction with our students. Inspite
Jaya Saha
of all these odds, I am really happy to let you know that our
esteemed faculty members and beloved students have
enthusiastically and promptly responded to my call for
contributions towards this edition of Electrazine. I am very
much thankful to all of them.
I am confident that this magazine would find warm
appreciation and welcome from all.
Sumita Deb
Chief Editor
3

--- Page 4 ---
“DESIGN IS A WAY OF LIFE, A POINT OF VIEW.
IT INVOLVES THE WHOLE COMPLEX OF VISUAL
COMMUNICATIONS: TALENT, CREATIVE
ABILITY, MANUAL SKILL AND TECHNICAL
KNOWLEDGE. AESTHETICS AND ECONOMIS,
TECHNOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY AND
INTRINSICALLY RELATED TO THE PROCESS.”
- Anonymous
The Department of Electrical Engineering was established at NIT Agartala
(then Tripura Engineering College) in 1965. Over the last few decades, our
graduates have been serving the society in key positions and have made
tremendous contributions to the development of India in its evolution from
an industrial based to knowledge-based company.
The field of Electrical Engineering encompasses many exciting
technologies: Microelectronics, HV Transmission, Power Generation etc,
which have been the fastest growing and most challenging technologies that
enable the development of the modern information-based society.
Our department provides tremendous opportunities for cross-interaction
both in terms of teaching and research. The department has a wide range
of research activities and has been recently accredited by NBA for a
period of 2 years.
Thus I feel very happy in presenting ELECTRAZINE on the eve of X-
mass and HAPPY NEW YEAR. In a subtle sense it is the celebration of
joy and rejuvenates us to struggle harder in our lives. This magazine brings
us an opportunity to the students to celebrate their individuality by
showcasing their hidden talent and helps them to unleash their potential.
I hope this magazine will enjoyed by all of us as before.
Dr.PriyaNath Das
HOD, Electrical Engineering
4

--- Page 5 ---
6

--- Page 6 ---
SOLAR POWER GENERATION AND
TRANSMISSION OF
COMMUNICATION SIGNAL
THROUGH E-HIGHWAY
Ranit Sengupta
Abstract
In order to reduce the environmental hazards and deficiency of non-
renewable resources, development of Electric Vehicle is a remarkable
step. As India going to replace the power sector from conventional non-
renewable energy resources to renewable energy resources like solar,
wind energy. E-highway will play a significant role on it. Through E-
highway solar power can be generated and communication signal is also
transmitted from which Internet is provided to the rural areas situated
besides the E-highway.
Implementation
The concept of E-highway is not new, with a number of other countries
already testing this idea. In august 2017, the German state of Hesse
awarded a contract to siemens to build an overhead contact line for
electrified freight transport on a 10km stretch of motorway. As part of
strategy to boost electric mobility in the country, India is also planning
to launch E-highway. Initially, a 10km pilot e-highway will be built with
overhead electric lines to power the engines of trucks and buses. Mainly
engines are replaced with motors. As we know through E-Highway, two
overhead wires are connected to supply power to the Electric Vehicle and
those wire suspended from supporting steel pole. Each pole is having 1
or 2 solar panel of 250 watt, from which 250 to 500-watt power can be
generated in a bright sunny day. As considering the length of 10 km long
E-highway, supporting poles are placed 100m apart from each other and
total number of poles will be 100. As a result, 25kw to 30kw power can
be generated from the 10km long E-highway and this power is fed back
to the grid. This power can be utilized for rural area electrification
6

--- Page 7 ---
situated besides the E-highway. As we know India is going to get 5G
internet service, so it can be transmitted through the wire of E-highway.
It can distribute connections to its terminal point or use to serve internet
connection in nearby rural villages across the highway where internet is
still a dream till today. That MHz range signal can be collected from
power line by a device name <wave trapper= which is use in High Voltage
Power substations to communicate through Transmission line to another
substation. In 2018 in Netherlands, during an attempt to test 5G
connectivity nearly 300 birds lost live. Wire transmission of 5G is the
best option for that. This implementation will lead the country forward
with green and eco-friendly technology.
7

--- Page 8 ---
STORAGE SYSTEMS FOR H FUEL
2
H CALLS FOR A CARBON FREE
2
FUTURE
Madhumita Pal
MTech 3rdSem, Integrated Energy systems
1. BRIEF INTRODUCTION
The global warming today knocks for a new fuel instead of Co2. H2
provides a promising hand in replacement of the fossil fuel. Germany
is leading in implementing in H2 fuel via automobile sector, power
sector. But what is keeping this new fuel so challenging in India and
other developing countries? The answer lies in the storage technology
which is in its germinating stage. Compressed gaseous hydrogen
storage is one of the best and reliable ways of storing H2 which is seen
in the industries, factories. But with emerging technology solid- state
H2 has turned up to be advantageous for its high-density volume
storage capacity in a small area.
2. METAL HYDRIDE
The reversible reaction of absorption and de-absorption makes MH a
viable, efficient option for storing H2. Its uses can be seen in
integration with Fuel cell for better energy-heat management.
+ ↔
E㕀xam㔻ples㕀 o㔻f such material Ti-Cr-V, MgH2, AB2 type alloys.
2.1. There is an optimum refilling rate of MH in any cylindrical tank
as per its dimensions, such that the heat generated during the process
doesn’t burn the H2 within the tank. This can be analyzed using the
graphs
8

--- Page 9 ---
Fig 1 A Fig 1B
Fig 1 C
Fig 1: Required rate of charging a tank with H is dependent on
2
Fig1A: Accepted rise in Temperature (oC)
Fig1B: characteristic distance between heat transfer surfaces (m)
Fig 1C: Heat of reaction (J/mol H )
2
3. GAS- SOLID HYBRID STORAGE SYSTEM
Various alloys are used to store H in the storage tank such that total
2
internal volume of the tank is
V =V +V +V ; V =0.2(V +V );
total alloy gas o o alloy gas
V = internal cylinder volume that contains only gaseous hydrogen.
gas
V =internal cylinder volume that is filled with alloy
alloy
V = dead volume of the tank including valves, gas tubes, cylinder body,
o
thermal conductor, etc.
The volumetric hydrogen storage density of the tank (kg m-3) is
9

--- Page 10 ---
;
þĀýý㕖ý+þĀÿĀ
= weight of the solid-state hydrogen stored; = weight of the
㔌㕣 = 㕉āýāÿý
gaseous hydrogen stored;
þĀýý㕖ý þ㕔ÿĀ
Varies according to ideal gas equation and is analyzed according to
following graphs.
㔌㕣
Fig2.the relationship between volumetric hydrogen storage density and
hydrogen pressure (MPa). (At T=300k)
4. STORAGE ON NANOPOROUS SOLID MATERIALS
Solid nano porous materials, such as nano porous carbons, porous
polymers and Metal Organic Frameworks (MOFs) are the surfaces to
store H on board. The internal high storage capacities are the
2
advantages of these materials at nano scale (10-9 m).
The volumetric capacity in kg/L is calculated as-
;
ÿ 㕣ÿýĀýÿĀþý
= conversion factor, to convert from moles to kg of hydrogen;
㕣 = 㕣þýý ∗ 㕣þýÿþ
;
ÿ
㕣ÿýĀýÿĀþý
= volumes of the adsorbed hydrogen phase; = volumes of
㕣þýý = þýýþĀ ýÿ 㔻 ÿýĀýÿĀþý
the pore.
㕣ÿýĀýÿĀþý 㕣þýÿþ
10

--- Page 11 ---
Fig 3 A Fig 3 B
Fig 3 the relation between volumetric capacity in nanomaterial graphene
with volume of pore (fig 3A) and with conversion factor (fig 3 B)
5. CONCLUSION
Various factors such as temperature, pressure etc. determine the suitable
storage systems for H . The nanoparticles and hybrid gas-solid storage
2
systems are two ongoing research areas for storing this clean fuel. The
need of the hour is a vibrant approach to harness cheap technology
reliant to strategic utilization of it for generating energy as per
requirement and demands.
6. REFERENCES FOR THIS ARTICLE
1. Development of a gaseous and solid-state hybrid system for stationary
hydrogen energy storage.
2. Comparison of theoretical methods of the hydrogen storage capacities
of nano porous carbons.
3. Design tool for estimating metal hydride storage system
characteristics for light-duty hydrogen fuel cell vehicles.
11

--- Page 12 ---
13

--- Page 13 ---
Ethics of Life
MAHESWAR PATRA
M.TECH (3RD SEMESTER)
POWER SYSTEM ENGINEERING
World is full of worries & trouble
Happiness is just like a soap bubble
Visible until you don’t touch
When in contact lasts not much
A little comfort & a little pain
Both is needed like sun & rain
Best is peace & never violence
Sometimes noise & sometimes silence
Always thinking of loss & gain!?
Helping the indigent never goes in vain
What’s required is a little solidarity
That’s what we call a life of quality
Life is a crop that you cultivate
Live your own, please don’t imitate
As long you live, live with dignity
Nothing will last for all eternity
13

--- Page 14 ---
CHAOS – An
invisible push to
MADHUMITA PAL
M.TECH (3RD SEMESTER)
INTEGRATED ENERGY SYSTEMS
change
Some people have lived a chaos
Some have ignored it
Some have even craved it
While some have excused it
In common everyone have survived it
Either it turns your best
Or it crawls your worst
Either it heals you up
Or it slays you back down
In common your own chaos has changed your soul…
14

--- Page 15 ---
Live the breath
MADHUMITA PAL
M.TECH (3RD SEMESTER)
INTEGRATED ENERGY SYSTEMS
quieter
Fall deeper
Wake up stronger
Think calmer
Work bolder
15

--- Page 16 ---
Love the heart
And forgive the hurt
MADHUMITA PAL
When time M.TECH (3RD SEMESTER) flows opposite
INTEGRATED ENERGY SYSTEMS
Hold the strong pillar
stronger
Uncertainty
A second is uncertain to create you
A second is uncertain to destroy you
A second is uncertain to break you
&
A second is uncertain to repair you
Live that each moment
Pay that each moment
Smile those each second
Cry for those each second
Success and failures are just parts,
But to live and to let humanity live are the full stories of it.
17

--- Page 17 ---
MAHESWAR PATRA
M.TECH (3RD SEMESTER)
#BLACK POWER SYSTEM ENGINEERING
LIVES MATTER
Caste, creed & colour separation
A big mockery to Almighty’s creation
Discriminating people saying white & black
Shows nothing but your mental drawback
Okay, okay let me get this straight
Don’t be in illusion that you will write our fate
Nothing will change though much is said
Until you realize what message you want to spread
Doesn’t affect them how loud we scream
No racism is still a dream
Hate, slap, punch, kick is what they give
Living in 2020, do we really need to speak!!?
To humanity it’s just like a speck
But their knees will be on our neck
No matter what we still be a target
Colour of our skin continue to be a threat
17

--- Page 18 ---
Support to end this utter nonsense
We can’t bear more barbaric violence
Oh stop! Please, we can’t breathe
We beg of you!! Just go & leave
Failure is the key to
MOUMITA SAHA
PHD SCHOLAR
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Success ingredient
for Creativity
<Change is the only constant=
and we need to modify our
18

--- Page 19 ---
conventional proverbs with time.
The well-known proverb <Failure is the key to Success= is no more valid
for to-days generation. Persistence and certitude are the difference
between success and failure. So if we want to succeed, we have to learn
from our failure and need to modify our streamline in a creative way.
Fail often, fail fast and take break to think creative. The more times we
fail, the closer we are getting to success because we get more time to
think before taking our next step.
Revolution cannot be achieved by hard work but by smart work.
One of the key ingredients of smart work is failure. We all are willing
to do breathless job from day to night unless until failure knock the door.
In order to be creative, we have to be willing to fail.
In order to build a culture that’s unafraid to fail, we have to be willing to
trust people to make mistakes and fix them quickly.
Failure and creativity go hand in hand.
Walt Disney
Mickey Mouse creator Walt Disney dropped out of school at a young age
in a failed attempt at joining the army. One of his earlier ventures,
Laugh-o-Gram Studios, went bankrupt due to his lack of ability to run a
successful business. He was once fired from a Missouri newspaper for
<not being creative enough.= Yet today, the genius behind Disney studios
is responsible for generations of childhood memories and dreams.
From Snow White to Frozen, Disney will continue to entertain the world
for generations to come.
Vincent Van Gogh
During his lifetime, Vincent Van Gogh suffered mental illness, failed
relationships, and committed suicide at the age of 37.
He only ever sold one painting in his life, pinning him a failure as an
artist. However that did not put a damper on his enthusiasm and passion
for art.
He would never know that years and years after his death he would
become known as a key figure in the world of post-impressionism, and
ultimately, one of the greatest artist that ever lived. He would never
19

--- Page 20 ---
know that he became a hot topic in art classes and his image was going to
be used in TV, books and other forms of popular culture.
Oprah Winfrey
She grew up in extreme poverty and was even fired from her first job at
Baltimore’s WJZ. She
created the highest-
JAYA SAHA
ranked talk show in
PHD SCHOLAR
Chicago and secured a
career as a ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING successful
producer and
philanthropist.
Mysterious Covid-19
Pandemic
On 31 December 2019, unknown pneumonia cases were reported in
people associated with the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in
Wuhan, Hubei Province, China. On
January 7, 2020, the Chinese
health authorities confirmed that
this case community was
associated with a new type of
coronavirus.
Later, this clinical picture was
named Coronavirus disease 2019
20

--- Page 21 ---
(COVID-19), and its factor was reported as <Severe Acute Respiratory
Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)=. COVID-19, which has been
declared a pandemic with current data, continues to spread by increasing
the number of infected cases and mortality day by day. SARS-CoV, an
epidemic with viruses from the same family, appeared in 2002-2003,
while 8,000 cases and 800 deaths occurred; Middle East Respiratory
syndrome (MERS)-CoV appeared in 2012, causing 2,500 cases and 800
deaths.
On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) classified the
COVID-19 infection as a pandemic.
More than six months into the pandemic, the coronavirus has infected
more than 11 million people worldwide, killing more than 525,000. But
despite the increasing toll, scientists still do not have a definitive answer
to one of the most fundamental questions about the virus: How deadly
is it?
A firm estimate could help governments predict how many deaths would
ensue if the virus spread out of control. The figure, usually called the
infection fatality rate, could tell health officials what to expect as the
pandemic spreads to densely populated nations like Brazil, Nigeria and
India.
In even poorer countries, where lethal threats like measles and malaria
are constant and where hard budget choices are routine, the number
could help officials decide whether to spend more on oxygen
concentrators or ventilators, or on measles or on measles shots and
mosquito-nets.
The question became even more complex, when the Canters for Disease
Control and Prevention released data suggesting that for every
documented infection in the United States, there were 10 other cases on
average that had gone unrecorded, probably because they were very mild
or asymptomatic. If there are many more asymptomatic infections than
once thought, then the virus may be less deadly than it has appeared. But
even that calculation is a difficult one.
Differences in Sensitivity of Children and Adults to COVID-19
There are some studies investigating why the disease is transmitted in
children with a milder clinic picture. Due to the immature immune
system in children, there are some data supporting the rarely occurrence
or slight effect of some infections. For example; It has been shown that
21

--- Page 22 ---
immature mice do not have poliovirus-induced paralysis due to
maturational changes of the axonal transport system. Another thesis is
that children have a more active natural immune response. Unlike
adults, less exposure to air pollution and cigarette smoke, and other
factors such as underlying diseases are thought to be the reason for the
healthier airways of children. In addition, acute respiratory distress
syndrome (ARDS) was associated with a much stronger immune
response reaction in adults. One of the most remarkable reasons among
these is that the distribution, maturation and functional differences of
viral receptors vary depending on age. SARS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2 and
human coronavirus NL63 use the SARS CoV receptor, namely
angiotensin converting enzyme-2 (ACE-2) as a cell receptor to enter the
‐
host cells in humans. As a result, these and similar effects can be cited as
the reason why children are more resistant to COVID-19 infections.
In adults infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, there is a markable or
progressive decrease in the number of peripheral absolute lymphocytes
at an early stage. Both the CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocyte count decrease,
and the neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio increases as SARS-CoV-2 consumes
lymphocytes as an early and prominent sign. This proves that the virus
used lymphocytes to reproduce and spread in the early stages. Adult
cases become severe within 7-10 days from the onset of the disease. As a
result of rapid virus replication, inflammatory cell infiltration, pro-
inflammatory cytokines, and chemokine response increase, transition
to ARDS, which is fatal lung injury occurs. The fact that the number of
leukocytes and absolute lymphocytes is quite normal and there is no
decrease in lymphocytes after the SARS-CoV-2 infection in children
suggests that there is fewer immune dysfunction.
On the other hand, mild COVID-19 disease in children may be associated
with trained immunity/active immunization. The creation of a trained
immune system is a new immune model. Some designated vaccines, such
as Bacillus Calmette Guerin (BCG), create immune memory by training
natural immunity. Most of the children in China and Asia are regularly
vaccinated according to the routine scheme, which also includes BCG. In
the light of this information, it should be investigated in more detail in
terms of educating the immune system with vaccination, which may be
one of the reasons why children have less ARDS than adults.
Economic Consequences of the COVID-19 Outbreak
22

--- Page 23 ---
As the spread of the virus is likely to continue disrupting economic
activity and negatively impact manufacturing and service industries,
especially in developed countries, we expect that financial markets will
continue to be volatile. There is still a question as to whether this
unfolding crisis will have a lasting structural impact on the global
economy or largely short-term financial and economic consequences. In
either case, it is evident that
communicable RAJATSUBHRA diseases such as
COVID-19 have the potential to
inflict severe economic and
financial costs on regional and global economies. As outbreaks of novel
infections are not likely to disappear in the near future, proactive
international actions are required not only to save lives but also to
protect economic prosperity
Sanatan Dharma
The Origin
With the world fast-pacing into the technological development meridian,
many of us from the prevailing the-human-race experience the hunger
for external and internal or to be more specific, spiritual growth. Some
bourgeoisie who claim themselves to be the more practical and advanced
among us multitudes, reject this hunger and the need to satisfy it, as a
mere waste of time and energy. But what they do not comprehend is this
hunger fuels the creation and the perfect regulation of our time and
energy.
Now, one might ask if this spiritual growth is so momentous and
essential, how does one achieve it? The answer to that question lies in
two words, that although seem limited but are infinite in possibilities
and growth. The two words are Sanatana Dharma. What does Sanatana
Dharma mean? Wikipedia defines Sanatana Dharma as "Sanātana
23

--- Page 24 ---
dharma (Devanagari; meaning "eternal dharma" or "eternal order") is
another name for Hinduism." Although the literal meaning is correct,
Sanatana Dharma is not another name for Hinduism. Sanatana Dharma
is not another name of any religion in this world.
Then what is Sanatana Dharma in reality? Sanatana Dharma is the
external dharma or duties or laws that govern the existence of all life in
this multiverse. According to Vedic Mathematics, the age of Sanatan
Dharma is estimated to be 155.52 Trillion Years. Sanatan Dharma is
eternal (beyond the time). It is the Universal Truth that sustains the very
core of the Universe and its beings. It is defined by the quest for cosmic
truth, just as the quest for physical truth defines science. In abridgment,
Sanatana Dharma represents a code of conduct and a value system that
has spiritual freedom as its core. If any religion provides such a code of
conduct and spiritual awakening, then that religion is Sanatana Dharma.
By this syllogism, a Hindu, a Muslim, a Sikh, a Christian, a Buddhist, or
be a person who is a devoted follower of any religion, is a practitioner of
Sanatana Dharma. Every religion is Sanatana Dharma. One cannot limit
it to a particular religion or cult or sect of society. Every religion teaches
us the ways and enlightens the path to become more-virtuous varieties of
ourselves.
Human nature has always been to become limitless in all aspects of our
existence. Infinite knowledge, infinite strength, infinite durability, and so
on. We want to become gods. In the Bible, it is written, God created us in
his image. i.e. we are the sublets of God and it is our destiny to become
Him.
But there are no such methods devised by the modern and advancing
world to become limitless. As a gift to us, to help us reach the eternal and
ultimate state of presence, to guide us on the path of becoming the
Supreme Personality of Godhead, our forefathers left us with the
knowledge of Sanatana Dharma.
Sanatana Dharma is…
1. God-centered rather than prophet-centered.
2. Experience-based rather than belief based.
3. Beyond any historical date of founding.
24

--- Page 25 ---
4. The process of growth, which comes from the seed.
5. Inherent in, and inclusive of all.
6. In the world, while above the world.
7. Both immanent and transcendent.
8. The whole and the parts.
RAJATSUBHRA
9. Loving of all and excluding
of none.
Sanatana Dharma is Anadi (without beginning) and also a-
paurusheya(without a human founder). Sanatana Dharma represents
much more than just a religion. It provides its followers with an entire
worldview, way of life, and with a coherent and rational view of the
cosmic reality.
Sanatan Dharma
The Principles
In our previous article, we began our study or discussion on Sanatana
Dharma and its origins. We got to know that Sanatana Dharma, just as
its name suggests is eternal and was, is, and always will remain and be
preserved even when nothing existed, exists, or will exist. We discovered
that Sanatana Dharma enlightens the path for creatures born in this
universe, created in God’s image to be godlike, to be gods themselves.
Sanatana Dharma teaches us humility and responsibility whilst making
us masters of great powers, powers gained through enlightenment and
liberation from this cycle of life and death. Sanatana Dharma teaches us
to live in Death, Death which is ever constant and ever fair and unbiased.
25

--- Page 26 ---
Sanatana Dharma is delimited by the desideratum for cosmic
veridicality, just as the desideratum for physical truth defines scientific
discipline. Its earliest record is the Rigveda, which is the record of
ancient sages who by whatever means tried to learn the truth about the
universe concerning Man’s place in the cosmos. They saw nature 4
including all living and non-living things 4 as part of the same cosmic
equation, and as pervaded by a higher consciousness or Paramatman.
In this article, let us delve deeper into Sanatana Dharma by canvassing
the principles it upholds.
1. Sanatana Dharma recognizes that the greater portion of human
religious aspiration has always been unknown, undefined, and outside of
any institutionalized belief.
2. The river of Dharma, regardless of what name you call it, whether
Dharma or some other name is ever-flowing and has eternally existed. It
has been before any of the great and ancient teachers were born. It is not
better than, or alternative to, but is inclusive of all. Dharma is that out of
which our earth and humanity itself emerged. Dharma not only is, but
always was, and always will be. To live in alignment with, and to
understand, the true nature of that Sanatana Dharma is one among the
ways of describing the upper goal of life.
3. Sanatana Dharma gives reverence to individual spiritual experience
over any formal religious doctrine. Wherever the Universal Truth is
manifest, there’s Sanatana Dharma 4 whether it’s during a field of faith,
art or science, or within the lifetime of an individual or community.
Wherever the Universal Truth isn’t recognized or is scaled-down and
limited to a specific group, book, or person, albeit done so within the
name of God, there Sanatana Dharma ceases to function, whatever we
call the activity.
4. Sanatana Dharma comprises spiritual laws that govern human
existence. Sanatana Dharma is to human life what natural laws are to the
physical phenomena. Just as the phenomena of gravitation existed
before they discovered it, the spiritual laws of life are eternal laws that
existed before the ancient rishis (sages discovered them) for the present
age during the Vedic period. Sanatana Dharma declares that something
26

--- Page 27 ---
cannot come out of nothingness and, therefore, the universe itself is the
manifestation of the Divine Being.
5. Since Sanatana Dharma corresponds to those ways of being are in
concert and complete harmony and are synchronous with the Brahman
and are aphoristic laws, this term refers not to something open to
alteration or mutation. Just as the laws of gravity, mathematics or logic
are not flexible with prejudiced criticism or relativistic opinions (gravity,
for example, is an inherent law of nature whether or not one believes in
the law of gravity), similarly the subtle laws of God transcend all
irrespective of their beliefs and nature
6. The universe is designed up of three depositions, reflexes,
characteristics or tendencies called Gunas: Tamasic, Rajasic, and Sattvic.
Tamasic tendencies are those that are inert, lazy, dull, and dark and
procrastinating. Rajasic tendencies are people who are active, moving,
indecisive, and forceful. Sattvic tendencies are those that are pure, clean,
good, wholesome, calming, and peaceful. If it were not for these three
tendencies, we would not exist. Everything in this universe a mixture of
them. Even a saint who is primarily sattvic, no matter however small, has
some level of rajas and tamas in him/her.
7. Sanatan Dharma utilizes Yoga as the means to realize Moksha or God-
realization. A very bland and rough translation of Yoga means "union". It
means "union", but that is a poor definition because it encompasses so
much more. Yoga is the union with Brahman (Absolute God). Therefore,
the word yoga is not merely a statement of a union, but it encompasses
the experience of liberation. In simpler words, Yoga is Enlightenment or
Moksha.
Just as a visible iceberg is only 10% of the actual size and mass of the
complete iceberg, what we discuss in these articles is only skimming off
the top of a magnificent and enormous iceberg that is ever-expanding.
The more we know about it, the more we dive deeper into it, the more we
get lost in its beauty and the more we come closer to the Paramatman.
27

--- Page 28 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA
29

--- Page 29 ---
Semester Magazine of Department of Electrical Engineering
NIT Agartala
29