
--- Page 1 ---
ELECTRAZINE

--- Page 2 ---
TECHNICAL
Motor protection
ENGLISH
Obesity
I have learnt that I deserve
FIFA world cup 2018:
a Russian rendezvous
The God Particle
BENGALI
PHOTOGRAPHY
PAINTINGS
2

--- Page 3 ---
EDITOR IN CHIEF
FROM THE EDITOR
Dr. Sumita Deb
Dear Reader,
Greetings to you all.
Executive Editor
It gives me immense pleasure to present to you the
tenth edition of ELECTRAZINE. Publication of the magazine Arjita Pal
included a lot of planning, organized effort and hard labour.
Like the earlier issues of ELECTRAZINE, this issue also includes Prince Sharma
some valuable technical and literary expressions of our
students and faculties, scripted in the form of some amazing
writing talents.
DESIGN TEAM
I am confident that this magazine would find warm
appreciation and welcome for the readers. Nilakshi Das
Sumita Deb
Chitrarupa Chaudhuri
Chief Editor Abhrajeet Das
Rudra Sarkar
3

--- Page 4 ---
FROM ELECTRATEAM
It gives us a great pleasure and satisfaction to present to
you the Tenth edition of the departmental magazine
“
ELECRAZINE. This branch magazine in is the culmination of
You learn to rely on a efforts put in by the whole editing and designing team.
few basic movements
This magazine is intended to evoke a response from you.
and use your voice to
Our purpose is to use it as your mouthpiece and at the same time
the greatest extent
present the happenings of the department before you. We seek to
possible to convey your
provide you with some pages where you can unwind yourself
emotions. So there was a
from the daily grinds and the rigors of the technical complexities
technical challenge and
and let the creative self take over for a while. It is expected to
a responsibility to
serve as the little excuse or the tiny dose of motivation which
create a character from
will stir the dormant artistic creativity of the students. At the
behind the task.
same time it is also the mean by which you can have your
opinion heard and your ideas shared.
”
-HELENA CARTER
We are indebted to Dr. PRIYA NATH DAS and Dr.
SUMITA DEB for the inspiration and the kind support. A
branch magazine owes a lot to the contributors and hence we are
also thankful to all those who chipped in with precious contents.
We have put in our best in the pursuit of publishing this
magazine which would cater to the expectations of the readers
but still there is always a scope of improvement and thus
feedback and suggestions are always welcome.
We hope you all will enjoy as your turn over the leaves of
ELECTRAZINE 13.0!!
4

--- Page 5 ---
Message from HOD
Electrical Engineering Department was started its journey since the establishment of Tripura Engineering
College (TEC) in 1965. TEC got converted into NIT, Agartala with effect from 1st April, 2006. Over the last
few decades, our graduates have been serving the society in key positions and have made tremendous
contributions to the development of India in its evolution from an industrial based to a knowledge-based
country.
The field of Electrical Engineering encompasses many exciting technologies: Microelectronics, HV
Transmission, Power Generation etc, which have been the fastest growing and most challenging
technologies that enable the development of the modern information-based society.
Thus I feel very happy in presenting the tenth edition of ELECTRAZINE on the eve NEW YEAR. I hope this
magazine will be enjoyed by all of us as before.
Dr. Priya Nath Das
HOD, Electrical Engineering
5

--- Page 6 ---
6

--- Page 7 ---
Motor
Protection
NAYAN PAUL, 4TH YEAR
Due to its low cost and rugged nature most of the motors used in our domestic applications
are squirrel cage induction motors. Slip ring induction motors are only used if speed control is
required. The major parts of any motor feeder are the contactors and relays. Contactors are the
predominant switching devices with a high mechanical and electrical life. Overload relays offer
protection against overload and single phasing and can be directly mounted onto the contactors.
This makes the motor feeder extremely compact and modular.
MOG motor protection circuit breakers offer the advantage of having both overload and short
circuit protection in a single compact unit. This solution is cost effective and ensures savings in
panel space.
The most common method of motor starting is either Direct On Line (DOL) or Star – Delta:-
A) DOL Starting:-
While DOL starting method is simple & most commonly used, care has to be taken while
selecting the SCPD & relay. It is recommended to select MCCB & MPCB with magnetic
7

--- Page 8 ---
threshold of at least 12 times of motor full load current for all standard motors & at least 14 times
of full load current for high efficiency motors.
1) Star - Delta Starting:-
Star Delta starting method is popularly used to reduce the motor starting current. For Star-Delta
motor feeders, the motor winding is connected in star. When it reaches a certain speed the motor
winding connection is changed to delta. It is of following two types:-
a) Open Transition:-
Open transition star delta starting is preferred in majority of the motor starting applications. In
open transition starting there is a momentary loss of supply to the motor when the changeover
from star to delta takes place. When the ON button is pressed, the star and main contactors get
picked and the motor is connected in star configuration. As a result a reduced voltage (VL/3) is
applied across motor windings. The motor continues to run in star connection for a period set in
the star delta timer. After the time delay, star contactor drops off and delta contactor picks up
causing the motor to get connected in delta. There is a pause time of the order 50 - 80 msec
configured in every star delta timer. This is to
ensure that delta contactor picks up only after star contactor has fully dropped to prevent the
eventuality of a short circuit. When this changeover takes place, the motor sees a zero voltage
across its terminals momentarily. During this time the rotating magnetic field across the stator
reduces to zero. However the rotor is still spinning and has a magnetic field. This spinning action
of the rotor causes a voltage to be induced in the stator determined by the speed of the rotor. This
induced voltage across the stator is called the back EMF.
When the motor is now connected in delta full line voltage appears across its terminals. The
difference between the back emf and supply voltage causes a high transient current and
corresponding high transient torque. Hence the motor experiences a jerk. The magnitude of the
transient current depends on the phase relationship between the back EMF and supply voltage at
the time of closure. This current peak may reach a value of about 18In and a corresponding
mechanical jerk, which can be damaging to some critical processes. To avoid this closed
transition starting is used in such cases.
R
Y
B
N
FUSE
LINE CONTACTER
DELTA CONTACTER STAR CONTACTER
MOTOR
8

--- Page 9 ---
Circuit diagram of a typical open transition Star Delta (SD) motor starter feeder.
b) Close Transition:-
In close transition starter, a smooth changeover from star to delta takes place without the
temporary loss of supply to motor thus eliminating the switching transients. This is brought
about by employing a fourth contactor along with a set of resistors. When the star contactor is
opened, supply is maintained through the motor terminals via the resistors. The resistors are
then shorted by the delta contactor when it closes.
Advantages :-
1) Operation is simple and rugged.
2) Transition Peak is reduced to 1.5 times full load current instead of 18 times in open
transition.
3) The sudden jerk the motor experiences in open transition, while closing the delta contactor
is avoided.
R
Y
B
FUSE
RELAY
DELTA CONTACTER TRANSITION MAIN CONTACTER STAR
CONTACTER CONTACTER
Circuit diagram of a typical close transition Star Delta (SD) motor starter feeder.
Disadvantages :-
1) More expensive.
2) Starter can be bulkier.
MOTOR PROTECTION :-
The main purpose of motor protection system is to prevent excessive temperature built up in the
windings because of over-current and short-circuit current. More importantly, the protection devices
should be co-ordinated.
A) OVERCURRENT PROTECTION
Following are the reasons for over-current.
9

--- Page 10 ---
1. Overloading
2. Single Phasing
3. Voltage Imbalance
Thermal Overload Relay:-
Thermal overload relay should protect the motor against single phasing and overloading or blocked
rotor condition. At the same time, it should withstand starting current for a duration equal to the
starting time of the motor. A relay of appropriate trip class can be selected by comparing 'locked rotor
current withstand time' for the motor with maximum trip time. For example, for a motor with 'locked
rotor current withstand time' of 15 seconds, the relay should have trip time less than 15 seconds at a
current equal to locked rotor current.
New generation of thermal overload relays incorporating 'differential mechanism' provide excellent
protection against phase unbalance and phase failures even when motor is not running at full load.
Unbalanced voltages result in high unequal currents in stator windings and consequently higher
temperature rise. Though balanced voltages are preferred, in some applications, voltage unbalance is
unavoidable and some derating might be necessary. Where a motor is derated, selection of overload
relay should take into account the derating factor.
SHORT CIRCUIT PROTECTING DEVICE:-
Though they operates instantaneously but by the time SCPD interrupts short circuit current, certain
amount of fault energy passes through the protected circuit. All the downstream devices and cables in
the protected circuit are subjected to stresses corresponding to this energy.
The two important parameters which indicate the extent of stresses generated by short circuits are 'l t
let through' and 'cut-off current'. 'l t let through' signifies thermal stresses. 8Cut-off current (Ic)' is
indicative of electro-dynamic stresses that various devices and links / cables will have to withstand.
Lower 'l t let through' and 'cut-off current9 indicate a more efficient SCPD and hence better short
circuit protection.
Motor protection circuit breakers (MPCBs) combine short circuit and overload protection in a single
compact unitCo-ordination of Thermal Overload Relay & SCPD
What is Co-ordination?
Co-ordination means matching the characteristics of SCPD and down stream equipment to ensure that
the let-through energy and peak cut-off current do not rise above the levels that the circuit can
withstand.
IEC / IS / EN specifications require that thermal overload relays and SCPD are co-ordinated to ensure
that they operate satisfactorily under all load and fault conditions
Discrimination :-
To understand various considerations for proper co-ordination, time-current characteristics of thermal
overload relay (curve B), H.R.C. fuse (curve C), MCCB with only instantaneous release (curve D)
and MPCB (curve E) are superimposed on motor starting characteristics (curve A) in Fig. 3b, 4b and
5b. Intersection of characteristics of thermal overload relay and Fuse / MCCB is termed as 'cross-over
point' and corresponding current as 'cross-over current' lco.
Following points are to be ensured while selecting components to have properly co-ordinated motor
protection:
l )Contactor rating (AC-3) should be more than or equal to motor full load current (if application is
AC-3 duty)
2) Thermal overload relay of appropriate 'Trip Class' is selected. Time current characteristics of the
relay should remain above motor starting characteristics as shown in Fig. 3b and 4b
3) For fault currents lower than 'cross-over current lco', relay will respond faster than SCPD and
hence contactor will interrupt the fault current. Fault currents higher than lco will be interrupted by
SCPD. Hence, rating of contactor is so chosen that lco is less than rated breaking capacity of the
contactor
10

--- Page 11 ---
4) Relay and contactor should be able to withstand lco for a duration equal to trip time of the relay.
IEC / IS / EN standards require that the contactor should be able to withstand at least current equal to
8 times AC-3 rating (6 times for ratings higher than 630A) for 10 seconds
5) While using MCCB or MPCB, attention needs to be given to motor peak starting current. To avoid
nuisance tripping of MCCB/MPCB during starting, instantaneous release is chosen as 13 times the
full load current of the motor. This thumb rule assumes motor starting current equal to 6 times full
load current
Type 1 and Type 2 Co-ordination in Motor Feeders:-
Selection of components involves co-ordination of characteristics of various devices i.e. of the
overload relay & of short circuit protection device of the motor feeder.
Type <1= co-ordination requires that under short-circuit conditions, the contactor or the starter shall
cause no danger to persons or installation. The motor feeder may not be suitable for further service
without repair and replacement of parts.
Type <2= co-ordination requires that under short-circuit conditions, the contactor or the starter shall
cause no danger to persons or installation and shall be suitable for further use. However contact
welding is recognized
Recommended combination needs to be proven through short-circuit tests as
1) Co-ordination with sdf Prospective current :- It is the highest short circuit current which
can exist in a particular electrical system under short circuit conditions. It is determined by
voltage and impedance. The protective device must be selected with an interrupting rating
that exceeds the prospective short circuit current.
2) Conditional short-circuit current:- It is the the maximum fault current that the feeder can
withstand for a specified period of time. It is declared by the manufacturer.
11

--- Page 12 ---
12

--- Page 13 ---
OBESITY
DR. SUMITA DEB,
ASSISTANT PROFESOR
Along with a surge of adrenaline, today9s fast-paced, high-stressed living brings a host of other
problems, Obesity being one of the chief concerns. Obesity is basically a life style disorder. It
manifests as an excess of fat in the body. This fat invades all tissues and organs of the body
indiscriminately. It can be accounted as an adverse consequence of the rapid technological advances
made by man. Some very common causes include:
1. Easily available and cheap junk food.
2. Lack of adequate physical exercise and leisure activities centered around television and
laptops
3. Improved transportation facilities and mechanization of jobs.
Added to these is our genetic makeup and body metabolism both of which provide the ideal
environment for obesity to proliferate. Obesity basically occurs when our body consumes more
calories than it burns. In the past, many people thought that obesity was simply caused by overeating
and under-exercising, resulting from a lack of will power and self-control. Although these are
significant contributing factors, doctors recognize that obesity is a complex medical problem that
involves genetic, environmental, behavioral, and social factors. All these factors play a role in
determining a person's weight.
Obesity is determined by the body mass index (BMI) of a person. The BMI of an Indian
ranges between 18-23 kg/m2. BMI above 30 kg/m2 is classified as obese. The health problems
associated with obesity are numerous. It's a health hazard. Someone who is 40% overweight is twice
13

--- Page 14 ---
as likely to die prematurely as is a normal-weight person. Obesity has been linked to several serious
medical conditions, including:
 Coronary heart disease and stroke.
 High blood pressure.
 Diabetes (Type-II in particular).
 Cancer.
 Gallbladder disease and gallstones.
 Osteoarthritis.
 Gout.
 Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
 Breathing problems, such as sleep apnea and asthma.
Obese people are often subjected to public ridicule due to their weight, thus leading to psychological
disorders such as depression, low self-esteem, discrimination, difficulty finding employment, and
reduced quality of life.
Prevention: Gaining knowledge about obesity, encouraging a more active and healthy lifestyle and
educating children and parents about the ill-effects of obesity might help to curtail the spread of this
disorder.
Treatment: Actively treating those already suffering from obesity prevents many complications,
early disabilities and death. Dieting and physical exercise are the mainstays of treatment for obesity.
Diet quality can be improved by reducing the consumption of energy-dense foods such as those high
in fat and sugars, and by increasing the intake of dietary fiber. Medical management of obesity
involves various types of drugs to be taken under careful medical supervision. The only proven
method to do is obesity or bariatric surgery which involves altering the digestive system of the person
in such a manner that the feeling of hunger diminishes and satiety lasts longer. However, it would be
best to consult a physician before attempting any such surgery.
Instead of postponing what one must do, it is time to get cracking on obesity. It works slowly and
silently giving the sufferer a false sense of security. Tacking obesity involves both prevention and
treatment.
14

--- Page 15 ---
I HAVE
LEARNT THAT
I DESERVE
BHASWATI MEDHI,
PH.D SCHOLAR
When I was growing up, my parents never spoke to me about what I <deserve=. They spoke to me a
lot about what was <expected=. They were very clear about that.
They expected me to be tough, hard-working, well-read and smart. They expected me to help others,
especially those struggling on the margins. They expected me to go to temple every now and then so
that I would feel thankful to the God for whatever I had and had really nothing to complain about.
They expected me to hold my head up and keep walking forward no matter what.
They expected me to stand up when any elderly walked into a room, something I continued still. The
list of their expectations went on and on. And along the way, their expectations of me slowly became
my own.
15

--- Page 16 ---
But over time, another word crept into my life. Slowly at first, even timidly, because for me the word
and the concept felt foreign, maybe even embarrassing.
That word was 8deserve9. To think you <deserve= something when others have so little, felt
arrogant and selfish – as in, who do you think you are?!!
But I9ve come to understand that there is power in the idea of deserving.
For example, if you9re a hard worker, you deserve to be appreciated and respected by those you work
with. That9s not asking too much. And if you work a lot, you deserve rest. My parents wouldn9t like
me saying that, but it9s true. Resting your body and your mind isn9t lazy, it9s being smart. You and
your body deserve to rest, mentally and physically, so you can be healthy and then work some more!
You deserve to be treated kindly by your friends, family and significant others. As I say to my brother
over and over, <You deserve my respect=. And as I say to him, <So do I. So look me in the eye when
you talk to me, and don9t you dare text at the dinner table!= I realized that if we don9t treat ourselves
as if we deserve these things, it9s hard for others to see that actions like those are important.
So what do you deserve? That9s up to you. I can only answer with what I have come to believe I
deserve.
I deserve to be happy. Much of that is in my control, but just knowing that I deserve it has helped me
be happier. And being treated kindly and respectfully starts with how I treat myself.
I deserve to take rest and take breaks. That9s why I go to Guwahati, my parent9s place, eveniffor 2
days, every once in a while, amidst my busy lifestyle. I9m not yet at the position where I cansay I
deserve a really long vacation, but I9m working toward that <deserve=.
I9m no longer embarrassed to admit I deserve these things, too. I deserve to live in a safe place. I
deserve to love and be loved. I deserve the right to dream again. Yes, I do. Dreams are not for twenty-
somethings. Dreams are for all of us at any age.
I deserve to grieve in the manner that works for me. If that9s longer than others would like, so be it. I
deserve to have people around me who tell me the truth, lift me up, and want the best for me. I
deserve to take out some time for myself, if that means to read a good book or to take a nap or to go
out to lunch with friends – that9s fine!
I deserve to laugh as much as I want.
I deserve to not know. That9s right. Until I know, I deserve to be unsure or uncertain of how I feel
about something or someone. It9s okay. I deserve to express my opinions, and I don9t deserve to be
attacked for what I said, for who I am, for what I believe. I deserve the right to change my beliefs
once I9ve seen they hurt me or hold me down, or when I discover a better way.
The list goes on, and it can also grow and change. In fact, I expect it to. I hope it will. I deserve that.
I write all these in the hope that you all will think about what you all deserve. I hope you will allow
space in your life and you mind to have this conversation with yourself, way earlier than I had mine.
It9s not selfish or arrogant. It9s a way to be kind and loving to you.
16

--- Page 17 ---
This thing called life is a magical journey. According to me, it doesn9t always make sense. It9s filled
with uncertainty, joy, struggle, surprises, disappointments, and rewards. It isn9t always fair and clean.
You deserve to design your life the way it works for you and then redesign it if you want to.
That9s what I9ve come to expect. That9s what I9ve learned I deserve.
17

--- Page 18 ---
FIFA
WORLD
CUP 2018:
A RUSSIAN
RENDEZVOUS
SUBHRANIL DATTA,
1ST YEAR
Football appeals to the masses around the world like no other game does. Images from around the
globe over the past weeks serve as an overwhelming proof of the World Cup fever. The pictures of
several kids at a backstreet of Rio De Jeneiro having a ball as huge murals of Neymar and Jesus loom
over them, or the self taught sculptor who carves out giant images of football stars on the beach in
Puri, India- they all reflect the united colours of football.
Athe opening ceremony of the World Cup 2018, the Russian president Vladimir Putin upheld the
unifying nature of the game as he welcomed <the big, strong, multi-national, football family from all
over the world= to Russia. From Moscow9s whopping Luzhniki stadium to the marvellous Fisht
stadium in Sochi and the quaint Kaliningrad stadium, standing alone on the Oktyabrsky Island, these
arenas have seen an outrush of footballing fans brought together by their collective love for the game.
With great footballing nations like Italy, Chile, Netherlands, failing to even qualify for the tournament
in Russia, everyone looked forward to a between the other international heavyweights. However,
billions bore testimony to Germany crashing out of the World Cup group stage after defeat by South
Korea. Lionel Messi and Argentina were knocked out of the world cup with Messi only a mere
shadow of his otherwisecolossally talented self. Spain went from pre tournament favourites to
crashing out on penalties against a far more superior Russian side. Sweden, despite lacking standouts,
had an superb run in the tournament until they lost to England at the quarter finals. The English team
may have suffered a despondent defeat against Croatia in the semi-finals but this young English side
delivered the country9s best world cup performance in 28 years.
To the horde of lovers of this game, one doesn9t need to be from a participating nation to soak in the
spirit of the football mania. How else does one explain the madness of places like Kolkata and Kerala
18

--- Page 19 ---
in a cricket-obsessed India where football fans stay divided into Brazil and Argentina camps for
months and worship foreign players – like Messi or Ronaldo –as if they were their own? Kolkata, the
Mecca of Indian football, has always led from the front when it comes to exhibiting its crazy passion
for the game.
The Messi-Ronaldo frenzy may have ended early on in the tournamentbut the billions who tuned into
the games weren9t left dispirited as the antics of Kylian Mbappe, Lukaku, Harry Kane, Juan Quintero,
breathe new life into the fans of the game across the world. Mbappe9s brace against Argentina is stuff
that dreams are made of. Ante Rebic has emerged a breakout footballer for Croatia post a
disappointing run in Brazil in 2014. The loss against Croatia is a heartbreak for England as they have
produced one of the best young sides in the past few years butthis brand new English side has gained
a legion of new fans courtesy of their great performance.
Croatia has a population of about 4 million people - the second smallest in the tournament after
Uruguay. Following a poor start in the semi finals against England, The Blazers rallied from behind to
win the match 2-1 in extra time thanks to a goal from Mario Mandzukic. The victory for Croatia is
ground breaking as they have registered a place in the world cup finals for the first time. The 62
games over 30 days has produced some exciting contests that managed to shine the spotlight on a new
generation of players while burnishing the reputation of some of the stars. A global audience in
billions will be tuning into the final match as Croatia will be looking forward to ending their
<Cinderella story= on a history-making win against a formidable French side who will be hoping for
their second world cup win. May the best team emerge victorious.
19

--- Page 20 ---
THE GOD
PARTICLE
RISHIRUP CHAKRABORTY, 2ND YEAR
The discovery of this 'God Particle' was a break through in the field of Astro-Physics.
A new particle with a mass of 125 Gev was discovered in 2012.It was later confirmed to be the Higgs
Boson(God Particle).
The Higgs boson is an elementary particle in the Standard Model of particle physics. First suspected
to exist in the 1960s, it is the quantum excitation of the Higgs field,a fundamental field of crucial
importance to particle physics theory unlike other known fields such as the electromagnetic field, it is
20

--- Page 21 ---
scalar and also has a non-zero constant value in vacuum. The question of the existence of the Higgs
field became the last unverified part of the Standard Model of particle physics, and for several
decades, was considered "the central problem in particle physics".
In Layman's terms,
There are two kinds of statistics that particles follow, one discovered by Mr. Fermi and one
discovered by Mr. Bose. The ones that do what Mr. Fermi says they do are called fermions and the
ones that do what Mr. Bose says they do are called bosons.
Mr. Higgs' boson helps explain why mass-energy and space-time are not actually separate entities but
two ways of perceiving the unified field.
The Higgs Boson explains why some particles have mass. The problem of where mass comes from is
complicated because mass is strongly connected to gravity, and no theory of gravity plays nice with
the currently popular model of particle physics. Gravity doesn't appear in quantum equations, so it
can't explain the motion of big objects for which gravity is important; and the non-realism of quantum
theory doesn't appear in Einstein's theory so he can't explain the motion of small objects for which
non-realism is important.
Before Mr. Higgs came along, all our equations for particles were symmetrical, so the mass value on
one side of the equation was always canceled by the value on the other side. The Higgs field induces a
spontaneous symmetry breaking, which leaves mass on one side of the equation and not the other.
The Higgs boson is named after Peter Higgs, one of six physicists who, in the 1964 PRL symmetry
breaking papers, proposed the mechanism that suggested the existence of such a particle. On 10
December 2013, two of the physicists, Peter Higgs and Francois Englert, were awarded the Nobel
Prize in Physics for their work and prediction (Englert's co-researcher Robert Brout had died in 2011
and the Nobel Prize is not ordinarily given posthumously).Although Higgs's name has come to be
associated with this theory, several researchers between about 1960 and 1972 independently
developed different parts of it. In mainstream media the Higgs boson has often been called the "God
particle", from a 1993 book on the topic the nickname is strongly disliked by many physicists,
including Higgs, who regard it as sensationalistic.
21

--- Page 22 ---
22

--- Page 23 ---
23

--- Page 24 ---
24

--- Page 25 ---
ANKUR BISWAS, 3RD YEAR
25

--- Page 26 ---
E. THARUN, 2ND YEAR
26

--- Page 27 ---
NABANITA DAS, 4TH YEAR
27

--- Page 28 ---
Half yearly