
--- Page 1 ---
A HALF YEARLY MAGAZINE
TWELFTH EDITION JANUARY 2021
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 2 ---
WIMP – the potential Dark Particle
Earthing
ENGLISH
Laughter
Kolkata, a city that
never loses charm
Comunalism and the
Country
The
walk
HINDI
Meri Maa
Fare Well
PHOTOGRAPHY
PAINTINGS
2

--- Page 3 ---
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Dr. Sumita Deb
Executive Editor
FROM THE EDITOR
Arjita Pal
Dear Reader, Prince Sharma
Greetings to you.
It is a pleasure that the ELECTRAZINE issue of this year
DESIGN TEAM
is being published in time. To ensure uninterrupted
publications of the magazine, the editorial board has been
Nilakshi Das
reformed including some really talented group of students in it.
The present issue is the first product of the newly formed
Chitrarupa Chaudhuri
editorial board. All new essence, reflecting the new editorial
board, can be felt to be omnipresent in this issue.
Abhrajeet Das
In this issue of ELECTRAZINE, our students have put
Rudra Sarkar
forward some amazing pieces of writing displaying their
creative thinking and writing skills. It is indeed a lovely
experience to view these enthusiastic and highly potential
young minds voicing their feelings through their technical/non-
technical write ups, poems, drawings and paintings. I would
definitely like to convey my heartiest thanks to the entire
editorial team for their hard work round the clock to make this
edition come in life in time.
I am confident that this magazine would find warm
appreciation and welcome for all.
Sumita Deb
3

--- Page 4 ---
FROM ELECTRATEAM
It gives us a great pleasure and satisfaction to present to
you the Eighth edition of the departmental magazine
“
ELECRAZINE. This branch magazine in is the culmination of
You learn to rely on a efforts put in by the whole editing and designing team.
few basic movements
This magazine is intended to evoke a response from you.
and use your voice to
Our purpose is to use it as your mouthpiece and at the same time
the greatest extent
present the happenings of the department before you. We seek to
possible to convey your
provide you with some pages where you can unwind yourself
emotions. So there was a
from the daily grinds and the rigors of the technical complexities
technical challenge and
and let the creative self take over for a while. It is expected to
a responsibility to
serve as the little excuse or the tiny dose of motivation which
create a character from
will stir the dormant artistic creativity of the students. At the
behind the task.
same time it is also the mean by which you can have your
opinion heard and your ideas shared.
”
-HELENA CARTER
We are indebted to Dr. PRIYA NATH DAS and Dr.
SUMITA DEB for the inspiration and the kind support. A
branch magazine owes a lot to the contributors and hence we are
also thankful to all those who chipped in with precious contents.
We have put in our best in the pursuit of publishing this
magazine which would cater to the expectations of the readers
but still there is always a scope of improvement and thus
feedback and suggestions are always welcome.
We hope you all will enjoy as your turn over the leaves of
ELECTRAZINE 12.0!!
4

--- Page 5 ---
“DESIGN IS A WAY OF LIFE, A POINT OF VIEW.
IT INVOLVES THE WHOLE COMPLEX OF VISUAL
COMMUNICATIONS: TALENT, CREATIVE ABILITY,
MANUAL SKILL AND TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE.
AESTHETICS AND ECONOMIS, TECHNOLOGY
AND PSYCHOLOGY AND INTRINSICALLY
RELATED TO THE PROCESS.”
- Anonymous
The Department of Electrical Engineering was established at NIT Agartala (then Tripura Engineering
College) in 1965. Over the last few decades, our graduates have been serving the society in key positions
and have made tremendous contributions to the development of India in its evolution from an industrial
based to knowledge-based country.
The field of Electrical Engineering encompasses many exciting technologies: Microelectronics, HV
Transmission, Power Generation etc, which have been the fastest growing and most challenging
technologies that enable the development of the modern information-based society.
Thus I feel very happy in presenting ELECTRAZINE on the eve HAPPY NEW YEAR. In a subtle sense it is
the celebration of joy and rejuvenates us to struggle harder in our lives. This magazine brings us an
opportunity to the students to celebrate their individuality by showcasing their hidden talent and helps
them to unleash their potential.
I hope this magazine will be enjoyed by all of us as before.
Dr. Priya Nath Das
HOD, Electrical Engineering
5

--- Page 6 ---
6

--- Page 7 ---
WIMP the
–
potential Dark
Particle ANINDITA JAMATIA,
ASSISTANT PROFESOR
Extragalactic systems like spiral galaxies and cluster of galaxies exhibit mass discrepancies. The
application of Newton's Law of Gravity to the observed stars and gas fails to explain the rapid
observed motions of stars inside galaxies. This leads to the inference that some form of invisible mass
- dark matter - dominates the dynamics of the universe. It is believed that approximately 85% of
matter in the Universe is dark matter.Without an unseen blob of dark matter, galaxies would fly apart.
7

--- Page 8 ---
Dark Particle Candidates:
The concept of dark matter is not falsifiable. Individual candidates for the dark matter should be tested
and falsified. For example, it was once reasonable to imagine that innumerable brown dwarfs could be
the dark matter. That is no longer true - the brown dwarf hypothesis has been falsified. If we exclude
one candidate, we are free to make up another one. This is exactly what Particle physicist do. Other
possible candidates are more exotic objects, like small primordial black holes (primordial meaning
that they have been produced before atomic nuclei have formed in the early universe, while black
holes we usually talk about are produced from collapsing heavy stars - much later in the history of the
universe), or even the gravitational force that comes to us from a universe outside our own.
The candidates fall roughly into three categories:
WIMPs: WIMP-like particles are predicted by R parity conserving supersymmetry, a popular type of
extension to the standard model of particle physics All Standard Model particles have R-parity of +1
while supersymmetric particles have R-parity of 21. With R-parity being preserved, the lightest
supersymmetric particle (LSP)(100 GeV3 1 TeV ) cannot decay and is eventually produced in the
decay chain of all other superpartners. This stable LSP (if it exists) may therefore account for the
observed missing mass of the universe that is generally called dark matter. WIMP-like particles are
also predicted by universal extra dimension and little Higgs theories.
After WIMPs, the next obvious candidate is Axions, but in contrast to the WIMP it is an extremely
light particle. To make it still a valid dark matter candidate, it cannot have been produced during the
initial phase of the Big Bang, but rather in a later period.
Massive Compact Halo Objects (MACHOs) are large, condensed objects such as black holes, neuron
stars, white dwarfs etc. The search for these consists of using gravitational lensing to see the effect of
these objects on background galaxies. Most experts believe that the constraints from those searches
rule out MACHOs as a viable dark matter candidate.
The WIMP Miracle
When properties of LSP is used to calculate the number of LSPs still be around today, it matches
closely to the amount of dark matter experimentally observed, which can9t be mere coincidence.
Simulations of a universe full of cold dark matter produce galaxy distributions that are roughly
similar to what is observed. WIMPs fit the model of a relic dark matter particle from the early
Universe, when all particles were in a state of thermal equilibrium For sufficiently high temperatures,
such as those existing in the early Universe, the dark matter particle and its antiparticle would have
been both forming from and annihilating into lighter particles. As the Universe expanded and cooled,
the average thermal energy of these lighter particles decreased and eventually became insufficient to
form a dark matter particle-antiparticle pair. The annihilation of the dark matter particle-antiparticle
pairs, however, would have continued, and the number density of dark matter particles would have
begun to decrease exponentially. Eventually, however, the number density would become so low that
the dark matter particle and antiparticle interaction would cease, and the number of dark matter
particles would remain (roughly) constant as the Universe continued to expand. Particles with a larger
interaction cross section would continue to annihilate for a longer period of time, and thus would have
a smaller number density when the annihilation interaction ceases. Based on the current estimated
abundance of dark matter in the Universe, if the dark matter particle is such a relic particle, the
interaction cross section governing the particle-antiparticle annihilation can be no larger than the cross
section for the weak interaction. If this model is correct, the dark matter particle would have the
properties of the WIMP. Obtaining the correct abundance of dark matter today via thermal
production requires a self-annihilation cross section, which is roughly what is expected for a new
8

--- Page 9 ---
particle in the 100 GeV mass range
that interacts via the electroweak
force. This phenomenon is
termed as 8WIMP miracle9.
Characteristics of WIMP:
 The main theoretical
characteristics of a WIMP
are:
 Interactions only through
the weak nuclear force
and gravity,
 Large mass compared to
standard particles (sub
GeV ).
WIMPs would tend to clump
together because their relatively
low velocities would be insufficient
to overcome the mutual
gravitational attraction. WIMPs
gained popularity in late 1970s and
early 1980s when scientists
realized that particles naturally
popped out in models of super
symmetry have the potential to
explain the mysterious dark matter.
The fact that we find this
coincidence of particle properties
between the cosmological and
astrophysical observations of dark
matter on one side and particle
physics on the other side is a very
compelling motivation to look for
direct evidence for WIMPs.
Experiments to detect WIMPs:
There is a Nobel Prize waiting for whoever discovers the dark matter. Because WIMPs may only
interact through gravitational and weak forces, they are extremely difficult to detect. However, there
are many experiments underway to attempt to detect WIMPs both directly and indirectly.
Indirect detection refers to the observation of annihilation or decay products of WIMPs far away from
Earth. Indirect detection typically focuses on locations where WIMP dark matter is thought to
accumulate the most: in the centers of galaxies and galaxy clusters, as well as in the dwarf satellite
galaxies orbiting the Milky Way. Typical indirect searches look for excess gamma rays, which are
predicted both as final-state products of annihilation.
Another type of indirect WIMP signal could come from the Sun. Halo WIMPs may, as they pass
through the Sun, interact with solar protons, helium nuclei as well as heavier elements. If a WIMP
loses enough energy in such an interaction to fall below the local escape velocity, it would not have
enough energy to escape the gravitational pull of the Sun and would remain gravitationally bound. As
more and more WIMPs thermalize inside the Sun, they begin to annihilate with each other, forming a
variety of particles, including high-energy neutrinos.
9

--- Page 10 ---
These neutrinos may then travel to the Earth to be detected in one of the many neutrino telescopes,
such as the Super-Kamiokande detector in Japan. Similar experiments are underway to detect
neutrinos from WIMP annihilations within the Earth and from within the galactic center.
Direct detection refers to the observation of the effects of a WIMP-nucleus collision as the dark
matter passes through a detector in an Earth laboratory, as well as attempts to directly produce
WIMPs in particle colliders such as Large Hadron Collider (LHC).
While most WIMP models indicate that a large enough number of WIMPs must be captured in large
celestial bodies for indirect detection experiments to succeed, it remains possible that these models are
either incorrect or only explain part of the dark matter phenomenon. Thus, even with the multiple
experiments dedicated to providing indirect evidence for the existence of cold dark matter, direct
detection measurements are also necessary to solidify the theory of WIMPs. For direct observation,
special purpose experiments such as the Cryogenic Dark Matter Search (CDMS) seek to detect the
rare impacts of WIMPs in terrestrial detectors. The sensitivity required is phenomenal, and many
mundane background events (cosmic rays, natural radioactivity) that might mimic WIMPs must be
screened out. For this reason, there is a strong desire to perform these experiments in deep mine
shafts where the apparatus can be shielded from the cosmic rays that bombard our planet and other
practical nuisances. The general strategy of current attempts to detect WIMPs is to find very sensitive
systems that can be scaled up to large volumes. The next decade should see the emergence of several
multi-tonne mass direct detection experiments, which will probe WIMP-nucleus cross sections orders
of magnitude smaller than the current state-of-the-art sensitivity.
Dark matter hunter Thomas Shutt of Stanford University and SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory
is excited about the WIMPs and co founder of Large Underground Xenon (LUX) dark matter
experiment in an underground mine in South Dakota. He is also involved in next generation LUX-
ZEPLIN (LZ) experiment which will start as a several tonne mass liquid xenon experiment before
moving up to twenty tonnes.
According to Tim Tait, Particle Physicist of University of California, Irvine,= Most supersymmetric
theories estimates the mass of the lightest WIMP to be somewhere above 100 gigaelectronvolts,
which is well within Cern9s LHC9s energy regime.= However, recent null results from direct detection
experiments along with the failure to produce evidence of supersymmetry in the LHC experiment has
cast doubt on the simplest WIMP hypothesis.
Challenge
The intensive, worldwide search for dark matter has so far failed to find strange new weakly
interacting particles, but a new candidate is slowly gaining followers and observational support Called
SIMPs, strongly interacting massive particles, which were proposed three years ago by University of
California, Berkeley theoretical physicist Hitoshi Murayama, a professor of physics and director of
the Kavli Institute for the Physics and Mathematics of the Universe (Kavli IPMU) in Japan.
SIMPs overcome a major failing of WIMP theory: the ability to explain the distribution of dark matter
in small galaxies. "There has been this longstanding puzzle: If you look at dwarf galaxies, which are
very small with rather few stars, they are really dominated by dark matter. And if you go through
numerical simulations of how dark matter clumps together, they always predict that there is a huge
concentration towards the center. A cusp," Murayama said. "But observations seem to suggest that
concentration is flatter: a core instead of a cusp. The core/cusp problem has been considered one of
the major issues with dark matter=.
Murayama says that recent observations of a nearby galactic pile-up could be evidence for the
existence of SIMPs, and he anticipates that future particle physics experiments will discover one of
them.
10

--- Page 11 ---
Conclusion
WIMP's (Weakly Interacting Massive Particles) and such "exotic" particles beyond the Standard
Model of physics and the Dark Matter (DM) physics, have strong possibility to exist in nature, there
are beautiful symmetries, observations and plausible models which posit various kinds of WIMP's,
both heavy and light, but unfortunately so far there is no decisive "unanimously-accepted" evidence of
these or other DM particles.
In part this is because it is only since around 2010 that particle accelerators specifically designed to
study physics beyond the Standard Model have become operational. The first runs of the LHC
found no previously-unknown particles other than the Higgs boson which was already suspected to
exist as part of the Standard Model, and therefore no evidence for supersymmetry. These findings
disappointed many physicists, who believed that supersymmetry (and other theories relying upon it)
was by far the most promising theories for "new" physics, and had hoped for signs of unexpected
results from these runs. Former enthusiastic supporter Mikhail Shifman went as far as urging the
theoretical community to search for new ideas and accept that supersymmetry was a failed theory.
However it has also been argued that the collider energies needed for such a discovery were likely too
low, so superpartners could exist but be more massive than the LHC can detect.
At this point we cannot decide which of the discussed candidates makes up the dark matter in our
universe, but WIMPs seem for several reasons to be one of the most straight forward explanations. In
science, sometimes a physical entity is predicted theoretically, but it may take half a century to
experimentally be confirmed. This is happened with Higgs boson. It depends on the particle
characters and the available technology of detection. Same thing also happened with
gravitational waves. So not detecting WIMP yet does not mean WIMP is not a correct prediction, it is
a very weak interacting particle with matter, so its detection is not easy. Of course one day either it
will be detected or falsified scientifically. This is the way how science works.
For those who are interested : - brief of particle physics and model of universe.
We know that our present picture of elementary particles and the forces acting between them, the so
called Standard Model, is incomplete.
The Standard Model of Particle physics is the theory describing three of the four known fundamental
forces 3 the gravitational force in the universe. A separate theory, General Relativity, is used for
gravity. According to this model all elementary particles are4depending on their spin4either bosons
or fermions. Particles of half integer spin exhibit Fermi3Dirac statistics and are called
fermions.Particles of full integer spin exhibit Bose 3 Einstein statistics and are called bosons. Bosons
differ from fermions in the fact that multiple bosons can occupy the same quantum state (Pauli
Exclusion Principle).
Fermions are the constituents of all matters. The Standard Model of particle physics contains 24
elementary fermions - 12 particles and their corresponding antiparticles - leptons and quarks and their
antiparticles (for example, the antielectron (positron) e+ is the electron's antiparticle and has an
electric charge of +1). There are six leptons, three of which have an electric charge of 21, called the
electron, the muon, and the tau, the other three leptons are neutrinos called electron neutrino, muon
neutrino and tau neutrino. Neutrinos do not have any charge. The remaining six particles are quarks-
up, down, charm, strange, top, bottom.
Bosons are elementary particles that mediate the forces and known as gauge (spin-1) bosons
(gluons, photons, and the W and Z bosons). The Standard Model also predicted the existence of a type
of boson known as the Higgs boson with spin 0, which is responsible for the intrinsic mass of
particles. On 4 July 2012, physicists with the Large Hadron Collider at CERN announced they had
found a new particle that behaves similarly to what is expected from the Higgs boson.
11

--- Page 12 ---
In standard model the particles that have little interaction with normal matter, such as neutrinos, are
all very light, and hence would be fast moving or "hot" and cannot be dark matter particle.
While explaining the evolution of cosmos, some parameters needed to be added arbitrarily in the
standard model which challenged it e.g. hierarchy problem (i.e., why do the elementary particles have
the various masses that they do) could not be well explained by standard model. So other models are
also proposed by science communities to resolve the shortcoming of standard. Among these models
grand unified theory, super symmetry, string theory have gain popularity.
Grand Unified Theory: Initially the Electromagnetic and weak forces were thought to be two
separate forces until scientist discovered the electroweak theory to explain both of them as single
force 3 electroweak force. Grand unified theory attempts to combine the electroweak and strong force
by a single force where such force breaks into three forces by higgs mechanism (generation of masses
for the gauge bosons through electroweak symmetry breaking).
Supersymmetry: This is a theory which proposes relationship between Fermions and bosons.
According to this theory, each particle of standard model would have a super partner whose spin
differs by 1/2 from the ordinary particle. These super partners are termed by supersmmetric particle
abbreviated as sparticles i.e. sleptons, squarks, neutralinos, and charginos etc. Since the superpartners
of the Z boson (zino), the photon (photino) and the neutral higgs (higgsino) have the same quantum
numbers, they can mix to form four eigenstates of the mass operator called "neutralinos". In many
models the lightest of the four neutralinos turns out to be the lightest supersymmetric particle (LSP)
which is stable and have the potential to become mysterious dark particle. Supersymmetry extension
of standard model can resolve many problem including hierarchy which otherwise remains beyond the
scope of standard model.
String theory: In this model, all particles are composed of one dimensional object called strings.
These strings vibrate at different frequencies that determine mass, electric charge, spin etc. Some
predictions of the string theory include existence of extremely massive counterparts of ordinary
particles due to vibrational excitations of the fundamental string and also existence of a massless spin-
2 particle behaving like the graviton.
Source: Internet
12

--- Page 13 ---
EARTHING
NAYAN PAUL, 3RD YEAR
To connect the metallic parts of electric machinery and devices to the earth plate or earth electrode
(which is buried in the moisture earth) through a thick conductor wire (which has very low resistance)
for safety purpose is known as Earthing or grounding.Earthing and grounding is the same term used
for earthing . grounding is used in north American standards whereas earthing is used in britian
standard. In aeroplanes and submarines we connect the metallic parts of electric machinery and
devices to common bus bar at refence or 0 potenrial . This is grounding not earthing( means
connevcting to earth).
BONDING:- It means connecting different
parts of electrical installations which is not
considered to carry current under normal
conditions together to bring them at same
level of electrical potential. It is jointing of
two wires or pipes.The primary purpose of
earthing is to avoid or minimize the danger
of electrocution, fire due to earth leakage of
current through undesired path and to
ensure that the potential of a current
carrying conductor does not rise with
respect to the earth than its designed
insulation.
Below are the basic needs of Earthing.
 To protect human lives as well as
provide safety to electrical devices and
appliances from leakage current.
 To keep voltage as constant in the
healthy phase that ensures proper working
of insulation. (If fault occurs on any one
phase).
 To Protect Electric system and
buildings form lighting.
 To serve as a return conductor in
electric traction system and communication.
 To avoid the risk of fire in electrical installation systems.
Different Terms used in Electrical Earthing
 Earth: The proper connection between electrical installation systems via conductor to the
buried plate in the earth is known as Earth.
 Earthed: When an electrical device, appliance or wiring system connected to the earth
through earth electrode, it is known as earthed device or simple <Earthed=.
13

--- Page 14 ---
 Solidly Earthed: When an electric device, appliance or electrical installation is connected to
the earth electrode without a fuse, circuit breaker or resistance/Impedance, It is called <solidly
earthed=.
 Earth Electrode: When a conductor (or conductive plate) buried in the earth for electrical
earthing system. It is known to be Earth Electrode. Earth electrodes are in different shapes
like, conductive plate, conductive rod, metal water pipe or any other conductor with low
resistance.
 Earthing Lead: The conductor wire or conductive strip connected between Earth electrode
and Electrical installation system and devices in called Earthing lead.
 Earth Continuity Conductor: The conductor wire, which is connected among different
electrical devices and appliances like, distribution board, different plugs and appliances etc. in
other words, the wire between earthing lead and electrical device or appliance is called earth
continuity conductor. It may be in the shape of metal pipe (fully or partial), or cable metallic
sheath or flexible wire.
 Sub Main Earthing Conductor: A wire connected between switch board and distribution
board i.e. that conductor is related to sub main circuits.
 Earth Resistance: This is the total resistance between earth electrode and earth in Ω (Ohms).
Earth resistance is the algebraic sum of the resistances of earth continuity conductor, earthing
lead, earth electrode and earth.
POINTS TO BE EARTHED
 Earthing is not done anyhow. According to IE rules and IEE (Institute of Electrical Engineers)
regulations,
 Earth pin of 3-pin lighting plug sockets and 4-pin power plug should be efficiently and
permanently earthed.
 All metal casing or metallic coverings containing or protecting any electric supply line or
apparatus such as GI pipes and conduits enclosing VIR or PVC cables, iron clad switches,
iron clad distribution fuse boards etc should be earthed (connected to earth).
 The frame of every generator, stationary motors and metallic parts of all transformers used for
controlling energy should be earthed by two separate and yet distinct connections with the
earth.
 In a dc 3-wire system, the middle conductors should be earthed at the generating station.
 Stay wires that are for overhead lines should be connected to earth by connecting at least one
strand to the earth wires.
Components of Earthing System
A complete electrical earthing system consists on the following basic components.
 Earth Continuity Conductor
 Earthing Lead
 Earth Electrode
14

--- Page 15 ---
Earth Continuity Conductor or Earth Wire :
That part of the earthing system which interconnects the overall metallic parts of electrical installation
e.g. conduit, ducts, boxes, metallic shells of the switches, distribution boards, Switches, fuses,
Regulating and controlling devices, metallic parts of electrical machines such as, motors, generators,
transformers and the metallic framework where electrical devices and components are installed is
known as earth wire or earth continuity conductor as shown in the above fig.According to IEEE rules,
resistance between consumer earth terminal and earth Continuity conductor (at the end) should not be
increased than 1Ω.
Size of Earth Continuity Conductor
The cross sectional area of the Earth Continuity Conductor should not be less than the half of the
cross sectional area of the thickest wire used in the electrical wiring installation.
Generally, the size of the bare copper wire used as earth continuity conductor is 3SWG( standard wire
gauge). But keep in mind that, don9t use less than 14SWG as earth wire.
Earthing Lead or Earthing Joint
The conductor wire connected between earth continuity conductor and earth electrode or earth plate is
called earthing joint or <Earthing lead=. The point where earth continuity conductor and earth
electrode meet is known as <connecting point= as shown in the above figure.
There should be minimum joints in earthing lead as well as lower in size and straight in the direction
Generally, copper wire can be used as earthing lead but, copper strip is also used for high installation
and it can handle the high fault current because of wider area than the copper wire. Galvnized
Iron(GI) strips may also be used.
To increase the safety factor of installation, generally DG, transformer, motor etc two copper wires
are used as earthing lead to connect the device metallic body to the earth electrode or earth plate. I.e.
if we use two earth electrodes or earth plats, there would be four earthing leads. It should not be
15

--- Page 16 ---
considered that the two earth leads are used as parallel paths to flow the fault currents but both paths
should work properly to carry the fault current because it is important for better safety.
Earth Plate :-The final underground metallic (plate) part of the earthing system which is connected
with earthing lead is called earth plate or earth electrode.
A metallic plate, pipe or rode can be used as an earth electrode which has very low resistance and
carry the fault current safely towards ground (earth).
The size of earth electrode (In case of copper)
2×2 (two foot wide as well as in length) and 1/8 inch thickness.. I.e. 29 x 29 x 1/8=. (600x600x300
mm)
In case of Iron
29 x29 x ¼= = 600x600x6 mm
It is recommended to bury the earth electrode in the moisture earth. If it is not possible, then put water
in the GI (Galvanized Iron) pipe to make possible the moisture condition.
Also, put a 1 foot (about 30cm) layer of powdered charcoal and lime mixture around the earth
plate.This action makes the possible increase in the size of the earth electrode which leads a better
continuity in the earth (earthing system) and also helps to maintain the moisture condition around
earth plate. Since, the water level is different in the different areas; therefore, the depth for earth
electrode installation is also different in various areas. But, the depth for earth electrode installation
should not be less than 10ft (3 meter) and should below 1 foot (304.8mm) from the constant water
level.
Motors, Generator, Transformers etc should be connected from to earth electrode two different
places.
Earthing Electrode:-
In small installation, use metallic rod (diameter = 25mm (1inch) and length = 2m (6ft) instead of earth
plate for earthing system. The metallic pipe should be 2 meter below from the surface of ground. To
maintain the moister condition, put 25mm (1inch) coal and lime mixture around the earth plate.
For effectiveness and convenience, you may use the copper rods 12.5mm (0.5 inch) to 25mm (1 inch)
diameter and 4m (12ft) length.
Methods of Earthing | Types of Earthing
1). Plate Earthing:In plate earthing system, a plate made up of either copper with dimensions 60cm x
60cm x 3.18mm (i.e. 2ft x 2ft x 1/8 in) or galvanized iron (GI) of dimensions 60cm x 60cm x 6.35
mm (2ft x 2ft x ¼ in) is buried vertical in the earth (earth pit) which should not be less than 3m (10ft)
from the ground level.
16

--- Page 17 ---
2) Pipe Earthing:
A galvanized steel and a perforated pipe of approved length and diameter is placed vertically in a wet
soil in this kind of system of earthing. It is the most common system of earthing.
The size of pipe to use depends on the magnitude of current and the type of soil. The dimension of the
pipe is usually 40mm (1.5in) in diameter and 2.75m (9ft) in length for ordinary soil or greater
3). Rod Earthing:- it is the same method as pipe earthing. A copper rod of 12.5mm (1/2 inch)
diameter or 16mm (0.6in) diameter of galvanized steel or hollow section 25mm (1inch) of GI pipe of
length above 2.5m (8.2 ft) are buried upright in the earth manually or with the help of a pneumatic
hammer. The length of embedded electrodes in the soil reduces earth resistance to a desired value.
4). Earthing through the Waterman
In this method of earthing, the waterman (Galvanized GI) pipes are used for earthing purpose. Make
sure to check the resistance of GI pipes and use earthing clamps to minimize the resistance for proper
earthing connection.
5). Strip or Wire Earthing:
In this method of earthing, strip electrodes of cross-section not less than 25mm x 1.6mm (1in x
0.06in) is buried in a horizontal trenches of a minimum depth of 0.5m. If copper with a cross-section
of 25mm x 4mm (1in x 0.15in) is used and a dimension of 3.0mm2 if it9s a galvanized iron or steel.
SI specification for Earthing
Various specifications in respect to earthing as recommended by Indian Standards are given below.
Here are few;
 An earthing electrode should not be situated (installed) close to the building whose
installation system is being earthed at least more than 1.5m away.
 The earth resistance should be low enough to cause the flow of current sufficient to operate
the protective relays or blow fuses. It9s value is not constant as it varies with weather because
it depends on moisture (but should not be less than 1 Ohm).
 The earth wire and earth electrode will be the same material.
 The earthing electrode should always be placed in a vertical position inside the earth or pit so
that it may be in contact with all the different earth layers.
17

--- Page 18 ---
General method of Earthing / Proper Grounding Installation (Step by Step)
The usual method of earthing of electric equipments, devices and appliances are as follow:
 First of all, dig a 5x5ft (1.5×1.5m) pit about 20-30ft (6-9 meters) in the ground. (Note that,
depth and width depends on the nature and structure of the ground)
 Bury an appropriate (usually 29 x 29 x 1/8= (600x600x300 mm) copper plate in that pit in
vertical position.
 Tight earth lead through nut bolts from two different places on earth plate.
 Use two earth leads with each earth plate (in case of two earth plates) and tight them.
 To protect the joints from corrosion, put grease around it.
 The earth pits are interconnected throught the earth leads i.e strips (in ring type system) and
tappings to building from different points as required are taken. This leads are taken to ground
floor, run along the wall to first , second and wherever needed. Their these are directly
connected to high loads . For low loads they are connected to either through earth continuity
conductor via connecting point or directly to the earth point of the switch box. This point is
internally connected to earth link (refer the diagram of distribution board). From earth link
earth wires run through conduits to the equipments to be earthed. A separate earth lid as per
IS should run along the building to separate earth pit as per IS.
 To maintain the moisture condition around the earth plate, put a 1ft (30cm) layer of powdered
charcoal (powdered wood coal) and lime mixture around the earth plate of around the earth
plate.
 Use thimble and nut bolts to connect tightly wires to the bed plates of machines. Each
machine should be earthed from two different places. The minimum distance between two
earth electrodes should be 10 ft (3m).
 Earth continuity conductor which is connected to the body and metallic parts of all
installation should be tightly connected to earth lead.
 At last (but not least), test the overall earthing system through earth tester. If everything is
going about the planning, then fill the pit with soil. The maximum allowable resistance for
earthing is 1Ω. If it is more than 1 ohm, then increase the size (not length) of earth lead and
earth continuity conductors. Keep the external ends of the pipes open and put the water time
to time to maintain the moisture condition around the earth electrode which is important for
the better earthing system
Classification of Systems Based on Types of System Earthing
Internationally, it has been agreed to classify the earthing systems as TN System. TT System and iT
System. They are:
a) TN svstem - has one or more points of the source of energy directly earthed, and the exposed and
extraneous conductive parts of the installation are connected by means of protective conductors to the
earthed point(s) of the source, that is, there is a metallic path for earth fault currents to flow from the
installation to the earthed point(s) of the source. TN systems are further sub-divided into TN-C, TN-S
and TN -C-S systems.
b) TT ,\ystem -- has one or more points of the source of energy directly earthed and the exposed and
extraneous conducti ve parts of the installation are connec ted to a local earth electrode or electrodes
are electrically independent of the source earth( s).
c) IT system - has the source either unearthed or earthed through a high impedance and the exposed
conductive parts of the installation are connected to electrically independent earth electrodes.
It is also recognized that, in practice, a system may be an admixture of type for the purposes of this
code, earthing systems are designated as follows:
18

--- Page 19 ---
a) TN-S System (for 240 V single phase domestic! commercial supply) - Systems where there are
separate neutral and protective conductors throughout the system. A system where the metallic path
between the installation and the source of energy is the sheath and armouring of the supply cable .
b) Indian TN-S System (for 415 V three-phase domestic commercial supp~v) 3 An independent earth
electrode within the consumer's premises is necessary
c) Indian TN C-System - The neutral and protective functons are combined in a singlecouductor
throughout the system (for example earthed concentric wiring).
d) TN-C-S S.vstem - The neutral and protective functions are combined in a single conductor but only
in part of the system
e) T-TN-S s.ystem (for 6-6111 kV three-phase bulk SlIPPZV) - The consumers installation, a TN -S
system receiving power at a captive substation through a delta connected transformer primary.
For figure and other details visit page 12 of IS 3043.
HOW TO CHOSE THE NUMBER OF EARTHING ELECTRODES??
Number of Earthing Electrode and Earthing Resistance depends on the resistivity of soil and time for
fault current to pass through (1 sec or 3 sec). There is no general rule to calculate the exact number of
earth pits and size of earthing strip, but discharging of leakage current is certainly dependent on the
cross section area of the material so for any equipment the earth strip size is calculated on the
current to be carried by that strip.First the leakage current to be carried is calculated and then
size of the strip is determined.
The earth resistance of single rod or pipe electrode is calculated as per BS 7430:
R=ρ/2×3.14xL (loge (8xL/d)-1)
Where:
ρ = Resistivity of soil (Ω meter),
L = Length of electrode (meter),
D = Diameter of electrode (meter)
B. Earthing resistance and number of rods for isolated earth pit (with buried earthing strip)
Resistance of earth strip (R) As per IS 3043:
R=ρ/2×3.14xLx (loge (2xLxL/wt))
Methods of Neutral Earthing
There are five methods for Neutral earthing:
 Unearthed Neutral System
 Solid Neutral Earthed System
 Resistance Neutral Earthing System
o Low Resistance Earthing
o High Resistance Earthing
 Resonant Neutral Earthing System
 Earthing Transformer Earthing
19

--- Page 20 ---
1)UNGROUNDED SYSTEM:-
In ungrounded system there is no internal connection between the conductors and earth. However, as
system, a capacitive coupling exists between
the system conductors and the adjacent grounded surfaces. Consequently, the <ungrounded system= is,
in reality, a <capacitive grounded system= by virtue of the distributed capacitance.
Under normal operating conditions, this distributed capacitance causes no problems. In fact, it is
beneficial because it establishes, in effect, a neutral point for the system; As a result, the phase
conductors are stressed at only line-to-neutral voltage above ground.
But problems can rise in ground fault conditions. A ground fault on one line results in full line-to-line
voltage appearing throughout the system. Thus, a voltage 1.73 times the normal voltage is present on
all insulation in the system.
This situation can often cause failures in older motors and transformers, due to insulation breakdown.
Advantages
 After the first ground fault, assuming it remains as a single fault, the circuit may continue in
operation, permitting continued production until a convenient shut down for maintenance can
be scheduled.
Disadvantages
 The interaction between the faulted system and its distributed capacitance may cause transient
over-voltages (several times normal) to appear from line to ground during normal switching
of a circuit having a line-to ground fault (short). These over voltages may cause insulation
failures at points other than the original fault.
 A second fault on another phase may occur before the first fault can be cleared. This can
result in very high line-to-line fault currents, equipment damage and disruption of both
circuits.
 The cost of equipment damage.
20

--- Page 21 ---
 Complicate for locating fault(s), involving a tedious process of trial and error: first isolating
the correct feeder, then the branch, and finally, the equipment at fault. The result is
unnecessarily lengthy and expensive down downtime.
2. Solidly Neutral Grounded Systems
Solidly grounded systems are usually used in low voltage applications at 600 volts or less. In solidly
grounded system, the neutral point is connected to earth.Solidly Neutral Grounding slightly reduces
the problem of transient over voltages found on the ungrounded system and provided path for the
ground fault current is in the range of 25 to 100% of the system three phase fault current..However,
if the reactance of the generator or transformer is too great, the problem of transient over voltages will
not be solved.While solidly grounded systems are an improvement over ungrounded systems, and
speed up the location of faults, they lack the current limiting ability of resistance grounding and the
extra protection this provides. Its purpose is to maintain very low impedance to ground faults so that
a relatively high fault current will flow thus insuring that circuit breakers orfuseswill clear the fault
quickly and therefore minimize damage
It also greatly reduces the shock hazard to personnel.If the system is not solidly grounded, the neutral
point of the system would <float= with respect to ground as a function of load subjecting the line-to-
neutral loads to voltage unbalances and instability.
Advantages
 The main advantage of solidly earthed systems is low over voltages, which makes the
earthing design common at high voltage levels (HV).
Disadvantages
 This system involves all the drawbacks and hazards of high earth fault current: maximum
damage and disturbances.
 There is no service continuity on the faulty feeder.
 The danger for personnel is high during the fault since the touch voltages created are high.
Applications
 Distributed neutral conductor
 3-phase + neutral distribution
 Use of the neutral conductor as a protective conductor with systematic earthing at each
transmission pole
 Used when the short-circuit power of the source is low.
21

--- Page 22 ---
3) Resistance earthed system:
Resistance grounding has been used in three-phase industrial applications for many years and it
resolves many of the problems associated with solidly grounded and ungrounded systems. Resistance
Grounding Systems limits the phase-to-ground fault currents.
The main reasons for limiting the phase to ground fault current by resistance grounding are:
 To reduce burning and melting effects in faulted electrical equipment like switchgear,
transformers, cables, and rotating machines.
 To reduce mechanical stresses in circuits/Equipments carrying fault currents.
 To reduce electrical-shock hazards to personnel caused by stray ground fault.
 To reduce the arc blast or flash hazard.
 To reduce the momentary line-voltage dip.
 To secure control of the transient over-voltages while at the same time.
 To improve the detection of the earth fault in a power system.
Grounding Resistors are generally connected between ground and neutral of transformers, generators
and grounding transformers to limit maximum fault current as per Ohms Law to a value which will
not damage the equipment in the power system and allow sufficient flow of fault current to detect
and operate Earth protective relays to clear the fault. Although it is possible to limit fault currents with
high resistance Neutral grounding Resistors, earth short circuit currents can be extremely reduced.
As a result of this fact, protection devices may not sense the fault.
Therefore, it is the most common application to limit single phase fault currents with low resistance
Neutral Grounding Resistors to approximately rated current of transformer and / or generator.
In addition, limiting fault currents to predetermined maximum values permits the designer to
selectively coordinate the operation of protective devices, which minimizes system disruption and
allows for quick location of the fault.
There are two categories of resistance grounding:
 Low resistance Grounding
 High resistance Grounding
22

--- Page 23 ---
Ground fault current flowing through either type of resistor when a single phase faults to ground will
increase the phase-to-ground voltage of the remaining two phases. As a result, conductor insulation
and surge arrestor ratings must be based on line-to-line voltage. This temporary increase in phase-
to-ground voltage should also be considered when selecting two and three pole breakers installed on
resistance grounded low voltage systems
If line-to neutral loads (such as 277V lighting) are present, they must be served by a solidly grounded
system. This can be achieved with an isolation transformer that has a three-phase delta primary and a
three-phase, four-wire, wye secondary.
Neither of these grounding systems (low or high resistance) reduces arc-flash hazards associated with
phase-to-phase faults, but both systems significantly reduce or essentially eliminate the arc-flash
hazards associated with phase-to-ground faults. Both types of grounding systems limit mechanical
stresses and reduce thermal damage to electrical equipment, circuits, and apparatus carrying faulted
current.
Generally speaking high-resistance grounding refers to a system in which the NGR let-through current
is less than 50 to 100 A.Low resistance grounding indicates that NGR current would be above 100
A.
A better distinction between the two levels might be alarm only and tripping. An alarm-only system
continues to operate with a single ground fault on the system for an unspecified amount of time. In a
tripping system a ground fault is automatically removed by protective relaying and circuit interrupting
devices. Alarm-only systems usually limit NGR current to 10 A or less.
Rating of The Neutral grounding resistor:
Voltage: Line-to-neutral voltage of the system to which it is connected.
Initial Current: The initial current which will flow through the resistor with rated voltage applied.
Time: The <on time= for which the resistor can operate without exceeding the allowable temperature
rise.
A. Low Resistance Grounded
Low Resistance Grounding is used for large electrical systems where there is a high investment in
capital equipment or prolonged loss of service of equipment has a significant economic impact and it
is not commonly used in low voltage systems because the limited ground fault current is too low to
reliably operate breaker trip units or fuses. This makes system selectivity hard to achieve. Moreover,
low resistance grounded systems are not suitable for 4-wire loads and hence have not been used in
commercial market applications. A resistor is connected from the system neutral point to ground and
generally sized to permit only 200A to 1200 amps of ground fault current to flow. Enough current
must flow such that protective devices can detect the faulted circuit and trip it off-line but not so much
current as to create major damage at the fault point.
Since the grounding impedance is in the form of resistance, any transient over voltages are quickly
damped out and the whole transient overvoltage phenomena is no longer applicable. Although
theoretically possible to be applied in low voltage systems (e.g. 480V),significant amount of the
system voltage dropped across the grounding resistor, there is not enough voltage across the arc
forcing current to flow, for the fault to be reliably detected.
For this reason low resistance grounding is not used for low voltage systems (under 1000 volts line to-
line).
Advantages
23

--- Page 24 ---
 Limits phase-to-ground currents to 200-400A.
 Reduces arcing current and, to some extent, limits arc-flash hazards associated with phase-to-
ground arcing current conditions only.
 May limit the mechanical damage and thermal damage to shorted transformer and rotating
machinery windings.
Disadvantages:
 Does not prevent operation of over current devices.
 Does not require a ground fault detection system.
 May be utilized on medium or high voltage systems.
 Conductor insulation and surge arrestors must be rated based on the line to-line voltage.
Phase-to-neutral loads must be served through an isolation transformer.
 Used: Up to 400 amps for 10 sec are commonly found on medium voltage systems.
B. High Resistance Grounded
High resistance grounding is almost identical to low resistance grounding except that the ground fault
current magnitude is typically limited to 10 amperes or less. High resistance grounding accomplishes
two things.
The first is that the ground fault current magnitude is sufficiently low enough such that no
appreciable damage is done at the fault point. This means that the faulted circuit need not be tripped
off-line when the fault first occurs.
Under earth fault conditions, the resistance must dominate over the system charging capacitance but
not to the point of permitting excessive current to flow and thereby excluding continuous operation.
HRG9s are continuous current rated, so the description of a particular unit does not include a time
rating. Unlike NGR9s, ground fault current flowing through a HRG is usually not of significant
magnitude to result in the operation of an over current device. Since the ground fault current is not
interrupted, a ground fault detection system must be installed.
These systems include a bypass contactor tapped across a portion of the resistor that pulses
(periodically opens and closes). When the contactor is open, ground fault current flows through the
entire resistor. When the contactor is closed a portion of the resistor is bypassed resulting in slightly
lower resistance and slightly higher ground fault current.
To avoid transient over-voltages, an HRG resistor must be sized so that the amount of ground
fault current the unit will allow to flow exceeds the electrical system9s charging current. As a rule of
thumb, charging current is estimated at 1A per 2000KVA of system capacity for low voltage systems
and 2A per 2000KVA of system capacity at 4.16kV.
These estimated charging currents increase if surge suppressors are present. Each set of suppressors
installed on a low voltage system results in approximately 0.5A of additional charging current and
each set of suppressors installed on a 4.16kV system adds 1.5A of additional charging current.
A system with 3000KVA of capacity at 480 volts would have an estimated charging current of
1.5A.Add one set of surge suppressors and the total charging current increases by 0.5A to 2.0A. A
standard 5A resistor could be used on this system. Most resistor manufacturers publish detailed
estimation tables that can be used to more closely estimate an electrical system9s charging current.
Advantages
1)Enables high impedance fault detection in systems with weak capacitive connection to
2)Some phase-to-earth faults are self-cleared.
24

--- Page 25 ---
3) The neutral point resistance can be chosen to limit the possible over voltage transients to 2.5 times
the fundamental frequency maximum voltage.
4) Limits phase-to-ground currents to 5-10A.
5) Reduces arcing current and essentially eliminates arc-flash hazards associated with phase-to-ground
arcing current conditions only.
6) Will eliminate the mechanical damage and may limit thermal damage to shorted transformer and
rotating machinery windings.
7) Prevents operation of over current devices until the fault can be located (when only one phase faults
to ground).
8) May be utilized on low voltage systems or medium voltage systems up to 5kV. IEEE Standard 141-
1993 states that <high resistance grounding should be restricted to 5kV class or lower systems with
charging currents of about 5.5A or less and should not be attempted on 15kV systems, unless proper
grounding relaying is employed=.
9) Conductor insulation and surge arrestors must be rated based on the line to-line voltage. Phase-to-
neutral loads must be served through an isolation transformer.
Disadvantages
1. Generates extensive earth fault currents when combined with strong or moderate capacitive
connection to earth Cost involved.
2. Requires a ground fault detection system to notify the facility engineer that a ground fault condition
has occurred.
4) Resonant earthed system:
Adding inductive reactance from the system neutral point to ground is an easy method of limiting the
available ground fault from something near the maximum 3 phase short circuit capacity (thousands of
amperes) to a relatively low value (200 to 800 amperes).To limit the reactive part of the earth fault
current in a power system a neutral point reactor can be connected between the transformer neutral
and the station earthing system.
A system in which at least one of the neutrals is connected to earth through an
1. Inductive reactance.
2. Petersen coil / Arc Suppression Coil / Earth Fault Neutralizer.
The current generated by the reactance during an earth fault approximately compensates the
capacitive component of the single phase earth fault current, is called a resonant earthed system.The
system is hardly ever exactly tuned, i.e. the reactive current does not exactly equal the capacitive earth
fault current of the system.A system in which the inductive current is slightly larger than the
capacitive earth fault current is over compensated. A system in which the induced earth fault current
is slightly smaller than the capacitive earth fault current is under compensated
25

--- Page 26 ---
Resonant neutral earthing
However, experience indicated that this inductive reactance to ground resonates with the system shunt
capacitance to ground under arcing ground fault conditions and creates very high transient over
voltages on the system. To control the transient over voltages, the design must permit at least 60% of
the 3 phase short circuit current to flow underground fault conditions.
Petersen Coils
A Petersen Coil is connected between the neutral point of the system and earth, and is rated so that the
capacitive current in the earth fault is compensated by an inductive current passed by the Petersen
Coil. A small residual current will remain, but this is so small that any arc between the faulted phase
and earth will not be maintained and the fault will extinguish. Minor earth faults such as a broken pin
insulator, could be held on the system without the supply being interrupted. Transient faults would not
result in supply interruptions.
Although the standard 8Peterson coil9 does not compensate the entire earth fault current in a network
due to the presence of resistive losses in the lines and coil, it is now possible to apply 8residual current
compensation9 by injecting an additional 180° out of phase current into the neutral via the Peterson
coil. The fault current is thereby reduced to practically zero. Such systems are known as 8Resonant
earthing with residual compensation9, and can be considered as a special case of reactive earthing.
Resonant earthing can reduce EPR to a safe level. This is because the Petersen coil can often
effectively act as a high impedance NER, which will substantially reduce any earth fault currents, and
hence also any corresponding EPR hazards (e.g. touch voltages, step voltages and transferred
voltages, including any EPR hazards impressed onto nearby telecommunication networks).
Advantages
1) Small reactive earth fault current independent of the phase to earth capacitance of the system.
2) Enables high impedance fault detection.
Disadvantages
1) Risk of extensive active earth fault losses.
2) High costs associated
5) Earthing transformer:-
For cases where there is no neutral point available for Neutral Earthing (e.g. for a delta winding), an
earthing transformer may be used to provide a return path for single phase faut currents. In such cases
26

--- Page 27 ---
the impedance of the earthing transformer may be sufficient to act as effective earthing impedance.
Additional impedance can be added in series if required. A special 8zig-zag9 transformer is sometimes
used for earthing delta windings to provide a low zero-sequence impedance and high positive and
negative sequence impedance to fault currents.
EARTHING TRANSFORMER
Comparison of Neutral Earthing System
Condition Un grounded Solid Low Resistance High Resistance Reactance
Grounded Grounded Grounded Grounding
Immunity to Transient Worse Good Good Best Best
Over voltages
73% Increase in Poor Best Good Poor
Voltage Stress Under
Line-to-Ground Fault
Condition
Equipment Protected Worse Poor Better Best Best
Safety to Personnel Worse Better Good Best Best
Service Reliability Worse Good Better Best Best
Maintenance Cost Worse Good Better Best Best
Ease of Locating First Worse Good Better Best Best
Ground Fault
Permits Designer to Not Possible Good Better Best Best
CoordinateProtective
27

--- Page 28 ---
Devices
Reduction in Worse Better Good Best Best
Frequency of Faults
Lighting Arrestor Ungroundedneutral Grounded- Ungroundedneutral Ungroundedneutral Ungroundedneutral
type neutraltype type type type
Current for phase-to Less than 1% Varies, may 5 to 20%
ground fault in percent be 100% or
ofthree-phase fault greater
current Less than 5%
The commonly used earthing around us:-
GRID EARTHING.
First, Main earth grid is constructed for the entire substation and it is buried 1 to 1.5 meter below the
fixed ground level.Main earth grid is nothing but a interconnection of earth rods. It might looks like a
mesh. The spacing of this grid is designed to produce a voltage gradient across the surface of the earth
that is less than the minimum voltage that can be perceived by a typical person either across the length
of a stride (called the 'step potential") or between where that person is standing and a metallic
structure that is bonded to that subsurface grid (called the 'reach potential'). Transfomers body
earth are connected to this main earth gridTransformers neutral are connected to NGR and this
NGR is connected to separate treated earth pit and it should be separated from the main earth
grid.Other equipments PT, CT, isolator,etc.are connected to this main earth grid. Lightning arresters
are connected to separate treated earth pits. The other
component is a connection between that metal grid and true earth. True earth is a fictitious equivalent
conductor deep beneath the surface of the earth. The design of that connection is typically expressed
in ohms - for example, in major facilities, the specification often calls for a 0.5 ohm ground to true
earth. Practically, this connection is most often achieved by driving rods into the earth and then
bonding those rods to the copper ground grid. The number and length of rods can be varied to achieve
the desired degree of grounding.It is normally done in switchyards and substations.
RING GROUND SYSTEM
A ring ground is a type of electrical ground that is used to protect buildings and equipment from
damage due to electrical surges. Ring grounds are typically used as protection against lightning
strikes. They are also known as ground rings. They are called type B protection and are used to
protect complicated building structures. In normal buildings a single earth electrode normally called
type A protection is used. A ring ground is typically constructed from a fairly large wire that is buried
at least a few feet underground. The ring ground will usually encircle the entire building at a distance
of about 1 to 1.5m depending upon any concrete or something like that present there, that it is trying
to protect. The ring ground is used as the base of the entire building's ground system, and all
components of the building's ground system, including the building structure, are connected to the
ground ring Ring grounds are very commonly used around communications equipment such as cell
phone towers, police radio towers, and other types of radio towers and equipment buildings. They
are also often used to protect computer data centers.
28

--- Page 29 ---
HALO GROUND SYSTEM
A halo ground is a type of ring ground that, instead of being installed outside and underground, is
installed inside, near the top of a building or structure. The ground reference for all equipment inside
the area being protected is separate from the halo. The halo is connected to the main building ground,
which may include an underground ring ground outside the building, with vertical conductors
especially in the corners of the building. Electrical equipment is also often placed in fully enclosed
metal cabinets, which function as Faraday cageso further protect the equipment. The halo may be
connected to structural metallic elements such as door frames, building steel, window frames, and air
conditioning vents.
Theory of Operation
When lightning strikes a metal tower or strikes near a building containing electrical equipment, a
large, rapidly changing magnetic field is generated. This magnetic field induces current onto power
lines, often disrupting electrical service, and also induces current into other electrical conductors such
as electrical equipment and even structural metal used in construction, such as rebar used to reinforce
concrete. These induced currents can easily damage electronic equipment.
Halo grounds and ring grounds are placed around the areas to be protected so that the magnetic field
will encounter these conductors first. Energy from the magnetic field creates currents in the halo and
ring ground, and this current is then safely shunted into the earth so that it does not harm equipment
inside the protected building. Since most of the energy in the magnetic field is used up in the creation
of these currents, very little energy is left over to create damaging currents inside the protected
building.
SPIRAL EARTHING
Spiral earthing is mainly done for overhead transmission line. Here a coil is spiralled and connected to
ground . Spiralling is mainly done to increase the surface area of contact to reduce the effective
resistance.
REFERENCE:-
IEEE Standard 141-1993, <Recommended Practice for Electrical Power Distribution for Industrial
Plants=
29

--- Page 30 ---
30

--- Page 31 ---
<The human race has only one
really active weapon, and that’s
laughter=
-Mark Twain
Laughter
DR. SUMITA DEB,
ASSISTANT PROFESOR
As stated by the legendary comedian, Charlie Chaplin, <A day without laughter is a day wasted=.
Indeed! Just think about the world around you with all the gloomy faces with no signs of smile and
laughter. I just cannot imagine it at all! Laughter is definitely an indispensable part of our life and
hence Mark Twain pointed out <The human race has only one really active weapon, and that9s
laughter=. So what is this laughter and why do we laugh? Let us now ponder about some very
interesting facts about this laughter.
Laughter is a complex process of our body which involves complicated activities of our brain. It is a
physical reaction consisting of rhythmical, often audible contractions of the diaphragm and other parts
of the respiratory system. it is a full-on collaboration between mind and body. and is a response to
certain external or internal stimuli [1]. Laughter is considered to be the most contagious of all
31

--- Page 32 ---
emotional experiences. In this regard, one can recall the bizarre event of the 1962 outbreak of
contagious laughter in Tanganyika. What began as an isolated fit of laughter in a group of 12 to 18
years old school girls rapidly spread to epidemic proportions, contagious laughter started propagating
from one individual to the next, eventually infecting adjacent communities. The epidemic was so
severe that it required closing of the schools and lasted as long as six months [2]. Although laughter is
one of the distinguishing features of human beings, little is known about the mechanisms behind it.
According to Relief theory [3], we need a release of our emotions through our laugh. The Incongruity
theory explains that we laugh when our logic does not match with a situation or a joke. This is, in fact,
the basic principle of a comedian. When a comedian delivers a joke, the audience tries to understand
the same and when they realize that the inconsistency of the joke mismatches with their own logical
expectations, it makes them laugh at the end. Again according to Superior theory, whenever we
consider ourselves superior to someone else, we laugh at their ignorance and mistakes. It is worth
mentioning here that age, gender, culture, education and knowledge level of a person determine the
causes and extent of one9s laughter. Small children learn to laugh before they can talk or judge
situations properly. In fact, human laughter begins at an early age (typically 14 to 16 weeks after
birth), often during the interaction between a mother and the infant. Laughter, smiles and other
gestures by the baby reinforce the mother9s behavior (for example, tickling) and regulate the duration
and intensity of the interaction. As suggested by R. Provine, laughter is an ancient form of social
signaling that is more akin to animal calls or bird songs than human speech. Although laughter
appears in human babies during their infancy, very little is known about the details of the
developmental process. Is it that babies hear their own laughter or the laughter of others for laughter
to mature? If so, is there any critical period during which laughter must be experienced? The report of
laughter in a few congenitally deaf-blind children suggests that at least some features of laughter
develop without benefit of auditory and visual stimulation, evidence of a strong maturational and
genetic basis. However, for a more satisfying account of laugh acquisition, high resolution studies are
required to be conducted to understand the contrast of development of laughter in normal and hearing-
impaired children [2].
We often laugh because someone else is laughing. According to researches [4], comedians laugh 46 %
more than listeners. It is based on their subconscious thinking that if they laugh, the audience is likely
to laugh. This subsequently makes the speaker more comfortable while performing. When we laugh,
two important proteins, namely endorphins and interferongamma (IFN) are released. These are
endogenous peptides. Endorphins act as natural pain killers and arouse a sense of happiness and
calmness in our body. These also protect us from stress, hypertension and depression, increase our
memory and keep us healthy and cheerful. IFN activates T cells, B cells, immunoglobulin and NK
cells in our body which in turn helps to fight viruses, strengthens our immune system and regulates
cell growth [3].
About 2000 years ago, Physician Galen stated that cheerful ladies have lesser probability of getting
cancer than depressed ladies. According to a 1989 study [3], laughter can decrease the serum levels of
cortisol, dopac, epinephrine and growth hormones. When we laugh, we make gestures and sounds due
to which our facial muscles contract. A 2010 study [5] reported that our body responds to repetitive
laughter and repetitive exercise in a similar manner. Positive emotional activities have been suggested
as modifiers of neuroendocrine hormones involved in the classical stress response. These hormones
result in certain biochemical changes which have implications for the reversal of the neuroendocrine
and classical stress hormone response.
Scientists do know that laughter is a highly sophisticated social signaling system, helping people bond
and even negotiate. Interestingly, most social laughter does not result from any obvious joke.
Although laughter is not generally under voluntary control, it has numerous health benefits. It releases
tension, lowers anxiety, boosts the immune system, and aids circulation. Laughter Yoga is claimed to
promote mental health and is increasingly becoming popular worldwide. Despite its popularity, there
has been no systematic review of Laughter Yoga intervention studies and thus evidence of its effects
on mental health is unclear [6].
32

--- Page 33 ---
References:
[1] https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/basics/laughter
[2] R. Provine, <Laughter: A Scientific Investigation=, American Scientist, January, 2000.
[3] N. Acharjee, <Scientific story of our laughter, crying and stress=, Everyman9s Science, Vol. LII
No. 3, Aug-Sep, 2017.
[4] R. Provine, <Laughter=, American Scientist, January, 1996.
[5] L. S Berk, S.A. Tan, W.F. Fry, B.J. Napier, J. W. Lee, R. W. Hubbard, J. W. Lewis, W. C. Eby,
<Neuroendocrine and stress hormone changes during mirthful laughter =, Am. J. Med. Sci., Vol-298,
390-396, 1989.
[6] D. Bressington, C. Yu, W. Wong, TC Ng, WT Chien, <The effects of group-based Laughter Yoga
interventions on mental health in adults: A systematic review=, doi: 10.1111/jpm.12491, Jul, 2018.
33

--- Page 34 ---
Kolkata, a city
that never loses
charm
BHASWATI MEDHI,
PH.D SCHOLAR
I visit Kolkata at least once a year, be it for some work or visiting relatives, or any other reason. But
Kolkata happens to me for minimum once per year. And as usual, the 8City of Joy9 never failed me.
This time I visited a relative9s place in Kolkata and I thought of jotting down my feelings for the
place. As one lies on bed, he or she could hear somebody shrieked with laughter, passing by. Through
the floral designed whitish curtains, light glows. A lorry thundered past, or a train in the nearby
railway track, rattling the windowpanes. Whether early in the morning or at the midnight hours the
place is seethed with life, sometimes it seems to be very noisy.
34

--- Page 35 ---
Amidst the noises, and the nest of greens, a bird cries, it9s like an alarm call, a screeching sound like a
carving knife being sharpened. Something barks at the midnight hours, far away. The moon paints my
place in silver, making things look just a little more alive. Moonlit coconut leaves will cast a spell on
you without a doubt.
Walking down the lanes, one finds by-lanes connecting one lane to the other. There are five lakes in
the area from which has been derived the name of the place -Panchasayar. On either side of the lanes
and by-lanes there are planned houses, mostly two storied and around them a distinct stretch of life.
Walking into the roads, footpaths, I heard cries of
35

--- Page 36 ---
<Oh Boudi, eitadekhun! Darunlagbe,= from shopkeepers, flattering and persuading customers
simultaneously into buying the latest collections.
The tangy smells of puchkas hit me as soon as I exited out of a shopping complex, tempting me to just
give it a try.
Puchka, otherwise known as 8panipuri9 all over India, is the ultimate snack to gobble up during an
evening stroll through the streets of Kolkata.
With all the commonplace tidbits, the residents of Kolkata will all widely agree that their city is aptly
named the 8City of Joy.9 Whether you casually walk down the busy streets of Kolkata or hop into the
yellow taxi to travel around the city, there is an undeniable charm that the city emits 3 with its old
buildings, the tram lines that run through the city, architecture from the British era and the local
people sitting outside tea shops, having their daily conversations called 8adda9 for which Bengalis are
famous for.
Last, but not the least of course Kolkata is perhaps the most soulful city in India. Contrary to the
picture painted in Dominique LA Pierre9s novel City of Joy, Kolkata is vibrant, uplifting and probably
the friendliest city in the lot. Strangers will invite you for a chai just to talk and exchange ideas.
Friendships are struck up in an instant and the city is abuzz with intellect and creativity.
36

--- Page 37 ---
COMMUNALISM
AND THE
COUNTRY
SUBHRANIL DATTA,
1ST YEAR
<I shall work for an India in which the poorest shall feel that it is their country, in whose making they
have an effective voice, an India in which there shall be no high class and low class of people, an
India in which all communities shall live in perfect harmony.= 3 Mahatma Gandhi, India of my
Dreams.
Seventy long years have gone by since Mahatma Gandhi, the father of our nation and the Pioneer of
the Indian freedom struggle, was assassinated when he was 79 years old. Mahatma Gandhi devoted
37

--- Page 38 ---
his entire life for encouraging communal solidarity. Gandhiji spent the final days of his life in Delhi
challenging the turmoil that was born out of the agony of Partition.
Hindus constitute the majority of 132.42 crores people living in India; people belonging to other
religions such as Islam, Christianity, Sikhism, Jainism, Buddhism also co-exist in this nation. Aside
from the eight major religions, there are 3,000 odd castes, 25,000 subcastes, 780 different languages,
seven union territories, and a sizeable population of people belonging to different tribes and sects.
The 42nd Amendment to Constitution of India, which was enacted in 1976, amended the preamble to
the constitution and changed the description of the nation from a <sovereign democratic republic= to a
<sovereign, socialist secular democratic republic=. The Preamble asserted that India is a secular
country, i.e. there should be equality of all religions in India, along with religious tolerance and
respect. Even the Upanishads, the ancient Sanskrit Scriptures, preach <Sarva Dharma Sambhava=
which translates to <Respect for all belief systems=.
Prabha Dixit, a renowned author, defined communalism as a political doctrine which makes use pf
religious and cultural differences to achieve political ends. Communalism is characterized by rivalry,
violence and tension amongst masses, and it is in stark contrast to the ideals of democracy,
secularism, and national integration.
There was a point of time, perhaps, when we might have taken the idea of a secular, pluralistic India,
tolerant of all sects and religions, as a position set in stone. But, incidents, especially since the early
1990s, have radically altered both reality and our imagination.The last decades have bore testimony to
a rapid spike in communal violence in India. Firspost, a leading news and media website, reported that
India witnessed 822 communal incidents in 2017 which resulted in more than 100 casualties, and
atleast 2,000 people were injured in the violence.
Hansraj Gangaram Ahir, the MoS Home Affairs, stated in the Lok Sabha that the highest number of
incidents were reported in Uttar Pradesh where 44 people were killed and 542 others were injured in
195 communal incidents. According to reports, Karnataka has seen almost a hundred incidents of
violence last year in which there were 9 casualties and 229 people were injured. Around 12 people
reportedly died as a result of communal discord in Rajasthan.
Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India, believed that a functional government structure
must encourage and sustain religious diversity. While Gandhi believed strongly in spiritualisation of
political life, Nehru advocated the separation of politics from religion. However, both Gandhi and
Nehru were united by their desire for a secular India. It was the horror of Partition that sealed Nehru9s
and Gandhi9s drive for a secular democracy following independence. But half a century later, the
legacy of Anti-communal struggle that was spearheaded by political leaders like Gandhiji, Nehru, Bal
Gangadhar Tilak, has surrendered to the widespread communal dissonance across the country.
The few surviving freedom fighters lament how India has moved on from the ideals of
equality, justice, and Dignity for all. The vast saga of great sacrifices, inspiring courage, and
the overwhelming commitment to securing liberty from the bondage of colonial rule, has now
been replaced by nationalism.
The cycle of communal hatred and violence can be stopped only by ending first the false
equivalence between minority and majority communalism. Efforts should be made through
mass media for changing the attitude of people towards other communities. People must be
aware of the evils of the communalism. Communal disharmony not only threatens democracy and
national integrity but is also a huge threat to our progress as a nation. We have to try to create a faith
in all minor religious communities, that their feelings, faiths, ways, and places of worship would not
be tolerated anyway. Respect of their thoughts and customs would arouse it into them. Political parties
should keep themselves away from the communal issues, or the issues that enthreat the communalism.
This is the only easy way, we can keep our unity and integrity safe and secure.
38

--- Page 39 ---
The walk
<All truly great thoughts
are conceived while
walking.=
4 Friedrich Nietzsche
MISHU RAJA,
2ND YEAR
How many of you go out for a morning walk? It is very refreshing and calms our agitated nerves and
meanwhile gives a sense of happiness too. It9s quite an easy thing to understand when it comes to
walking. Here, it isn9t about the morning walk which one starts and ends at the place he began. It9s
about the walk through life, where mirth can turn into misery in no time, and where even a beggar
may end up as a king. The walk through life is walked mostly alone albeit the fruitful assistance from
love ones.
How does it start? Crucial junctures in life demand tough decisions to be made and the complexity
increases if it is related to making the current state better than the past. It is then we make the choice
of opting for a path which would suit us better in future and we make efforts to make it happen in real.
The moment we start moving on our pre-decided path, we must commit ourselves to it dully.
39

--- Page 40 ---
Primarily, there must not be any hesitation or doubt inside us, at the first place, about our choices.
Nothing great can be achieved easily. Hurdles, difficulties are bound to strike your way but that
should not make you retreat. Having strong will power is extremely necessary to achieve one9s dream.
Expectation is one of those things which cause immense disappointment and disbelief. In your quest
to glory, you cannot keep expecting of yourself. It hampers your efforts by a big margin.
Once you have set your foot on the chosen path, you must not regret. Regret is the trickiest challenge
which everyone has to face at one stage of their life. Those who are able to pass through it unscathed
evolve to be more successful and full of mirth as compared to their counterparts who fail to do so. It
happens that we are guilty of the choices we made earlier. After all, mistakes are committed by
mortals. This fact has to be realized gleefully, and, instead of letting oneself down, one should hold
their head high and learn from their flaws. Perfection can be accomplished by minimizing errors
which is possible only when there is a space for learning.The most difficult thing to overcome while
walking through life is fear. Fear of death, misery, pain and the most dangerous of all, fear of failures.
It is obvious that every one of us is afraid of failing in life. Fear cannot be and should not be removed
completely. Removing fear is not the appropriate solution. The apt way of dealing with fear is bravery
and it involves overcoming the fear. Being fearful, one becomes too indecisive to take bold decisions
in his/her way. Fighting your fear with courage is the signature of your will to do something you
want. Ignoring the drawbacks of any decision made is foolish because one has to maintain the balance
between positive and negative. At the same time, thoughts of failing should not overpower the
thoughts of succeeding. One has to be positive and yet mindful to be able to move forward smoothly.
Life is known for its twists and turns but amidst these disturbances lays the secret of being able to
chase one9s dreams. Yes, it will happen that we will get hurt someday in form of failures, turbulences,
breakups, etc. But we have to get over it and start moving again because life neither started nor will
end at a point. Remember those days when our parents taught us to walk? They first helped us but
then slowly as the time progressed we were left on our own to walk through our life. It is true that we
fell initially when they left us for the first time but then we stood up and started walking again. This
process continued until we didn9t fall again. What we can learn from that little part of our life is that
no matter how many times we fell, we stood up, walked and moved our way forward. Life is full of
stoppages, all of which have something good in store for us. It9s up to us to terminate the evil and
extract the heaven out of the results obtained from the sincere efforts made by us. The walk through
life is indeed a tough one but certainly not one that cannot be completed as desired by us. It doesn9t
ends with criticism or failures, it ends only when one quits. Never quit midway on your chosen road
because then you will be left with no explanations to even console yourself. Moments of despair are
definitely going to be a huge part in this journey but it will only help to stabilize and become stronger
than before. 8Learn a way to enjoy the agony, it helps, because then even walking with twisted ankles
would feel like performing a moonwalk.9
<True, you may see the end of road today from distance and stop way ahead thinking it9s all over, that
doesn9t mean the road ends. The point where you think the road ends is actually the point where new
roads originate and that is why you should never stop prodding forward in this clumsy life which can
be sweet or bitter at any instant……=
Keep fighting. Keep chasing. Keep walking THE WALK
40

--- Page 41 ---
41

--- Page 42 ---
MERI MAA
SUBHRADEEP BANIK,
2ND YEAR
Pehli bar jab ankhe kholi, to
tumhe hi samne paya,
Pehli bar jab mene bola, to labso
me tumhara nam hi pehle aya.
Chot mujhe lagti, par dard
tumhe hota,
Exam mera hota, par tension
tumhe jyada hota.
Jeet ta me tha, khusi tumhe
jyada hoti,
Har ta me tha, par us har ko
jitney ka hosla tum hoti.
Mere life ki har problem ka solution ho tum,
Tum or koyi nehi, meri maa ho tum.
42

--- Page 43 ---
FARE WELL
SUBHRADEEP BANIK,
Raste ye kab khatam ho gaye 2ND YEAR
Pata hi nehi chala,
Manzil pe kab pohoch gaye
Waqt ka bhi kheyal na raha,
Sang tumhare safar ye kab bit gaya
Suhane palo ka ek guldasta ban gaya,
Yeah pal hamesa yaad ayenge,
Tum hamesa hamare dil me
Aise hi zinda hoke reh jayoge...
43

--- Page 44 ---
44

--- Page 45 ---
ANKUR BISWAS, 3RD YEAR
45

--- Page 46 ---
E. THARUN, 2ND YEAR
46

--- Page 47 ---
NABANITA DAS, 3RD YEAR
47

--- Page 48 ---
48

--- Page 49 ---
ANWESHA SAHA, 1ST YEAR
49

--- Page 50 ---
Half yearly