
--- Page 1 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Fax : 0381 254-6360, Website : http// www.nita.ac.in

  

Date: 93, / 3 /2023

 

E-Tender Notice

On behalf of National Institute of Technology Agartala, online quotation through Central Public
Procurement Portal (CPPP) are invited from the reputed resourceful Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/
Authorized Suppliers for supply of item(s)/goods/software etc. as per specification mentioned in Annexure of
tender document available at our website www.nita.ac.in. and central public procurement portal i.e.
www.eprocure.gov.in. The tender document can be downloaded from the website http:// eprocure.gov.in.

  
   
 
   
  

   
  
  

  
  

 

   
 

o

Oo . =

z Estimated Laskar Time and date of
g om receipt of tender Cpering of

3 (Rs. in Lakh) Technical bid

  
   
  

Three Seater Joint
Desk Bench

   
    

No.F.NITA.5/(144-
Acad)/Classroom
Bench/2022-23

   
    
  
 

137 04/2098
Up to 3:00 PM

  
 

 
   
   

1# 7 04/2028

At 3:00 PM

Academic

 

 

 

 

The interested Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/Authorized Suppliers may arrange online

submission of the tender through www.eprocure.gov.in along with scan copy of essential documents mentioned in
the tender document.

Tender(s) is/are to be submitted only online through central public procurement portal ie.
“http://eprucure.gov.in”, All the documents are to be scanned and uploaded along with the tender documents.

 

Tender sent by any other mode will not be accepted.

 

4

 

Registrar

 

 


--- Page 2 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.5/(144-Acad)/Classroom Bench/2022-23 | }2. #22— JX Date: 22 / 63 /2023
E- Tender Enquiry

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

Name of the Institute : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TE CHNOLOGY
AGARTALA

GST Number of the Institute : 16AAAGN0550K1ZG

PAN of the Institute : AAAGNOSS50K

TAN of the Institute : SHLNOO719F

DSIR No. : TU/V/RG-CDE(1053)/2022 dated 08.12.2022

Institute Bank A/C No. : 030936141729 (IFSC: SBIN0011491) under SBI, NIT
Agartala Branch.

Name of Department / Branch : Academic Section

Enquiry / Reference Number : No.F.NITA.5/(144-Acad)/Classroom Bench/2022-23

Some important/Critical dates:

Uploading on CPP Portal and| Date: 94 /O% /2023 Time: 5:00 PM
Department’s web-site

       
        

Bid submission start date Date: 9.4/0.3 2023 Time: 5:00 PM
Bid submission end date Date: (5/0. f2023 Time: 3:00 PM

Opening of technical bid Date: | F, 0 2023 Time: 3:00 PM

      
      

1|Page
&


--- Page 3 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Details of e-tender document.

Encl :

(1)
(2)

2|Page

NIT, Agartala intends to purchase the commodities specified in
Annexure enclosed and invites quotations in accordance with the terms and
conditions detailed in the bid document. If you are interested, kindly submit
your offer with prices within the time mentioned above fulfilling all the terms

and conditions marked in the bid documents.

 

 

Nea

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

Schedule of requirement, specifications, dates etc.
Bid document containing detail terms and conditions.


--- Page 4 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

iL.

Schedule of requirements

SI. No. Description of Goods/Service Quantity —
Three (3) seater joint desk bench 100 Nos.
(Details as per list at annexure-III, II & I)

Specifications and allied Technical Details

 

 

  
  
 

 

 

 

As per Annexure-III, II & I of Tender Document

 

Estimated Cost

 

= 14.00 Lakhs |

 

Quotations should be valid for a period of 180 days from the opening date of the
technical bid.

Bid Security or EMD: 2% of the estimated cost of the tender or Bidders should submit
“Bid Security Declaration Form’ on company letter head as per annexure-D of this
tender document.

Performance Security: The amount of the Performance Security shall be 3%(three
percent) of the Purchase Order / Contract value, valid up to 60 days after the date of
completion of contract obligations including warranty obligations.

Delivery and Installation of the Item (S): Within 60 (sixty) days after receipt of
the purchase/work order(s).

Please go through the enclosed “bid document” carefully for other bidding instructions,

For any technical details, you may contact through  email-id:

buyconé. nit.tr@gembuyer.in.

Yours sincerely,

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

 

 

3|Page


--- Page 5 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

pS
No.F.NITA.5/(144-Acad)/Classroom Bench/2022-23 Date: / /2023

BID DOCUMENT

i Instructions to the bidders

eI

LZ

13

1.4
15

1.6

1.7

1.8

1.9

1.10

4| Pa oS C

Bids are invited through e-tender on behalf of the National Institute of
Technology Agartala, Tripura, Agartala-799046 from the intending bidders for
supply of the goods/stores/ equipments/Learning resources for the Institute as
detailed in the enquiry letter.

The bidders should quote their rates in clear terms without ambiguity. The
quotation should be only in Indian Rupees for indigenous items. In case of
foreign quote, the vendors may quote their rates in Indian Rupees as well as in
Foreign Currency.

The last date & time for submission of the bid is marked in the enquiry.

The bids should be submitted online through www.epuocure.gov.in before the
last date & time of submission specified in tender document.

Bids received after the deadline of receipt indicated in para 1.4 above, shall not
be taken into consideration.

Each bidder shall submit only one bid against one enquiry. A bidder, who
submits more than one bid against single enquiry, shall be disqualified and
considered non-responsive.

The bidder has to enclose a check list at per Annexure - C duly filled in along
with all relevant/supporting documents while submitting technical bid through

Www.eprocure.gov.in.

Opening of Bids by the Purchaser will be done as per the provisions of the e-
procurement system.

At any time prior to the due date for submission of bids, the Purchaser may, for
any reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification
requested by a prospective bidder, modify the bidding documents by
amendment.

All prospective bidders are expected to surf the website before formulating and
submitting their bids to take cognizance of the amendments.

National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA) is registered with the
Department of Science & Industrial Research, Government of India vide
No.TU/V/RG-CDE(1053)/2022 dated 08.12.2022 for availing Custom duty
exemption as follows:


--- Page 6 ---
 

   
   
   
   
 

5|Page

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 
 

The Purchaser is registered with Department of Scientific and
Industrial Research (DSIR) for purposes of availing Custom duty
Exemption in terms of Notification No. 51/96 Custom dated 23-07-
1996, amended by notification no. 43/2017 dated 30-06-2017,
further amended re notification no. 42/2022 — Custom dated 13-07-

Yours sincerely,

 

—-
Registrar

National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 7 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

No.F.NITA.5/(144-Acad)/Classroom Bench/2022-23 Date: / /2023

2.

General Terms & Conditions:

2ih

22

2.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

2.7

2.8

The rates quoted should preferably be on basic price, Annual
Maintenance Charges(if applicable), packing, forwarding, freight,
Insurance and all other incidental charges and all rates should be
based on delivery by the Supplier /Bidders at National Institute of
Technology, Agartala. NIT Agartala will not bear any extra cost for
packing, forwarding, freight, Insurance, Installation and all other
incidental charges if any.

All taxes and duties will be paid extra and such amounts of
mandatory/statutory taxes & duties shall be explicitly mentioned in
BOQ while submitting of bid.

Price has to be ffilled through CPP portal as per BOQ
(https://www.eprocure.gov.in). The scanned copy of Price Bid, dully filled in,
has to be uploaded on the above e-procurement site. The prices filled in the e-
procurement site will be treated final and shall be binding to the vendor.

Insurance: The Goods supplied under the Contract shall be fully insured against
any loss or damage incidental to manufacture or acquisition, transportation,
storage and delivery up to the final destination.

All the Machines/Equipments/goods will be covered by Annual Maintenance
Contract (AMC) / CMC/ Warranty beyond the normal warranty/guarantee period.
Interested bidders are requested to quote price against AMC/Extended warranty
as an optional item in the price bid. Optional items will not be taken into
consideration while selecting L; bidder.

AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty will be awarded after completion of standard
warranty period. AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty may be carried out only after
receipt of confirmation letter from this Institute. The Institute will not be
responsible for any due payments / obligations may arise as a result of
execution of AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty without confirmation letter from this
Institute.

Conditional discount, if any, offered by the bidder shall not be considered at the
time of evaluation.

The bidders who are registered under NSIC/MSME organization of
Govt. of India for exemption of submitting EMD/Bid security must
enclose relevant documentary proof of authentication of their firm's
registration for the specific item(s) /Services.


--- Page 8 ---
 

2.10

2.11

2.12

2.13

7|Page

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME
rules, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover"
criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the offered products, it
would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria. In case any
bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover /Experience Criteria, the supporting
documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded with technical
bid.

If the bidder is a Startup, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of
"Bidder Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the
offered products, it would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover"
criteria. In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover / Experience
Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be
uploaded with technical bid.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala is following and abide with the Public
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017, DIPP, MoCI Order No.
P-45021/2/2017-B.E.II dated 15th June 2017 and subsequent amendments to
the order. Accordingly preference will be given to the Make in India products
while evaluating the bids, however, it is the sole responsibility of the bidder(s)
to specify the product quoted by them is of Make in India product along with
respective documentary evidence as stipulated in the aforesaid order in the
technical bid itself.

On site Comprehensive Warranty:

e The successful bidder shall provide a Comprehensive Warranty for minimum
period of 5 years after the installation and commissioning of the items. If
within a warranty period after installation any such product or component is
proven to be defective such product shall be repaired or replaced by the
supplier/vendor. Such repair and replacement shall be sole obligation of
supplier/vendor. Supplier / vendor shall be responsible for payment for all
charges (to-and-fro) for repair/ replacement. Any design defects or
installations deficiencies or any outer defects, if noticed during the warranty/
maintenance period, shall be rectified promptly by the successful bidder with
no cost at all the places, which also includes the field installations.

e Down-time call attendance should be within 24 hrs.

e In case the Equipment / System remains non-operational for more than 5
days then warranty period will be extended for the equal period for which
Equipment / System remained non-operational. Warranty extension in such
case shall be done without prejudice to any other Term & condition of the
contract.

The documentary evidence of the bidders qualification to perform the contract if
the bid is accepted shall establish to the purchasers satisfaction that:


--- Page 9 ---
 

 
 

8|Pa

2.14

2:15

2.16

2.19

2.20

| (a) | The bidder meets the qualification criteria listed in bidding
(b) | Bidder who doesn’t manufacture the goods it offers to supply shall submit

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 
 

Manufacturers’ Authorization Form using the form specified in the bidding
document to demonstrate that it has been duly authorized by the
manufacturer of the goods to quote and / or supply the goods/services.

 
  
 

  
          

The successful bidder has to furnish “Performance Guarantee/Security” for an
amount specified in the enquiry by E-Payment System to NITA Account within
15(fifteen) days of intimation of contract/supply order.

Alternatively, “Performance Guarantee/Security” will be retained by the Institute
from the billed amount of the contract/supply order which will be released two
months after the completion of warranty period.

Delivery Schedule: As per e-Tender.

The item(s)/goods are required to be delivered at the indenting Department of
National Institute of Technology, Agartala, and must be dispatched within
specified days from the date of placement of the supply/purchase/work order.

If the supplier fails to Supply, Install and Commission the system as per
specifications mentioned in the order within the due date, the Supplier is liable
to pay liquidated damages of 0.5% of order value per week of delay subject to a
maximum of 3%, as the case may be, beyond the due date. Such money will be
deducted from any amount due or which may become due to the supplier.

Force Majeure: Notwithstanding the provisions of clauses relating to Extension
of Time, Penalty and Termination for Default the Supplier shall not be liable for
forfeiture of its Performance Security, Liquidated Damages or Termination for
Default, if and to the extent that, its delay in performance or other failure to
perform its obligations under the Contract is the result of an event of Force
Majeure.

The successful bidder(s) may be required to execute a contract on the basis of
item wise evaluation as per annexure(s) (where is applicable).

After receipt of Purchase Order, one sample item may be sent in
advance for Inspection / confirmation of the item before mass
production.

NIT Agartala will reject a proposal for award if it determines that the Bidder
recommended for award has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt,
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices in competing for the Contract in
question.

The bidder has to furnish up to date GST and Income Tax return of last three
financial years along with valid trade license.


--- Page 10 ---
 

oukl

2.22

A203
2.24

2.25

2.26

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Payment: 100% will be made in INR (Indian National Rupees) after
successful Installation, Commissioning of item against submission
of Performance Guaranty (PG) otherwise an equal amount of PG
will be retained by the Institute till the completion of warranty
obligations.

Note: All payments due under the contract shall be paid after deduction of
statutory levies at source (like ESIC, IT (TDS), GST, LBT / Octroi etc.), wherever
applicable.

In the event of any dispute arising out of the bid or from the resultant contract,
the decision of the Competent Authority, National Institute of Technology,
Agartala shall be final.

The bid document/resultant contract will be interpreted under Indian Laws.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala will not take any responsibility for
arranging road permit/way bill or clearance from tax department for delivery of
goods. All such requirements should be completed by the bidder for delivery of
goods at National Institute of Technology, Agartala. GST payment, if required,
should be paid by successful bidder and if GST not paid, National Institute of
Technology, Agartala will deduct the applicable amount from successful bidder’s
bills and pay the same to Tax Authority. If there is any mandatory tax(es) other
than GST/other taxes mentioned in this tender document, imposed by State
Govt., the same may also be deducted from the bills of the successful bidder, as
applicable.

Competent Authority of National Institute of Technology, Agartala
reserves the right to cancel the entire e-tendering process at any
stage of the procurement process without mentioning any reason.

Legal disputes, if any with NIT Agartala will be restricted within the
jurisdiction of Agartala only.

Yours sincerely,
| Nei)
Registrar

National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

 


--- Page 11 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.5/(144-Acad)/Classroom Bench/2022-23 Date: / /2023

3. Special Terms & Conditions:

3.1

a2

3.3

3.4

3.9

3.6

3.7,

3.8
3.9

10 | a ae

Acceptance of Technical bid strictly depends on National Institute of Technology,
Agartala’s requirements credentials, manufacturing capability, quality control
systems, past performance, after-sales service, financial background,
commercial terms & conditions etc. of the supplier(s).

Detailed Specifications, brand, make, model & parts number, tolerance limit,
resolution, corresponding ISO standard etc. of quoted Equipments/Items should
be mentioned with supported leaflet and list of buyers for acceptance of
technical bid.

The technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted through
www.eprocure.gov.in. The technical bids shall be opened and evaluated by the
competent committee/authority. At the second stage, financial bids of only the
technically qualified offers shall be opened for further evaluation and
recommendations for awarding the purchase order/contract.

It may specifically be mentioned whether quotation is strictly as per terms and
conditions of the tender. Deviation, if any, must be spelt out specifically in
technical bid. In the absence of this, the quotation may be rejected.

The Quantity of each Item(s)/Equipment(s) may increase (as per Govt. Norms)
or decrease at the time of issued of Purchase / Supply / Work Order. The
Institute reserves right to purchase partly or not to purchase any item / cancel
the entire process at any stage of procurement process.

Penalty: Penalty will be charged @ 0.5 % of per week except for force majeure
conditions for the unexecuted part of the supply/work order.

Arbitration: All disputes should be attempted to be resolve mutually between the
National Institute of Technology, Agartala and the suppliers failing which
jurisdiction of any Court of Agartala shall be applicable.

_ Model No. of the product should be given with catalogue (if any).

Items/Goods should be sent through Registered Transporter (preferably).


--- Page 12 ---
 

3.10

S11

3.12

34a

11|Page

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Bidders are required to upload a declaration on letter head stating that the
bidder has not been black-listed & holiday’ listed by any
Ministry/Department/Organization.

Bidder(s) is/are required to upload a self certification regarding
offered item(s) as per Office Memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD
dated 8 February, 2021 issued by Department of Expenditure,
Procurement Policy Division, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India.

Bidders are requested to provide valid e-mail ID and phone number for further
communication.

Bank A/C in the Exact Name of Bidder/Firm/Supplier with Name, A/C No., IFSC
code must be furnished with technical bid.

Yours sincerely,

{Noam

Registrar
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

 


--- Page 13 ---
Annexure III (Modified)

Specifications

    

  
    
   

 
     
    
 

Name of the
item
3-seaters class
room joint

desk bench

 

Furniture configuration: 3 (Three)-seater joint desk
benchwith back rest, storage shelves, and hooks.

Colour: Mahogany (Glossy finish)
Dimension:

Desk Top

Length: 60”, Width: 14”, Thickness: 1”
Seating

Length: 60”, Width: 15”, Thickness: 1”

    
   
 
  

NOTE:

1) Dimensions, as in the drawing in Annexure II, will be
considered. The bench must not be less than the specified
dimension and not more than the occupancy area of 15 sq.
feet.

 

 

 

 

    
    

 

    

100 Nos.

 

2) The drawings, figures & sketches given in Annexure Ilare
not to scale.

3) A sample image of a 3-seater classroom joint bench desk
furniture is shown in Annexure I.

3) The supplier shall ensure that the product is
manufactured as per specification and all the

 

 

 

fitting/accessories used are of standard quality, wherever
not specified. =

 

 


--- Page 14 ---
Annexure II

  

(1) Front view of the Desk (2) Rear view of the Desk

@ 58” {length) x3” (width) 1” (thiekness) support frame for sitting area
257

 

(5) Rear view of the bench

site

(4) Top view of the 3-seater joint desk bench


--- Page 15 ---
Annexure |

Sample Images of the 3 Seater classroom joint desk bench.

 


--- Page 16 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.5/(144-Acad)/Classroom Bench/2022-23 Date: / /2023

ANNEXURE — B

PRICE BID

As per BOQ

13 | P a RC


--- Page 17 ---
      

National Institute of Technology Agartala

    

CAS
ey AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)
No.F.NITA.5/(144-Acad)/Classroom Bench/2022-23 Date: /
ANNEXURE - C

Documents for Comprising the Bid

TENDER REQUIREMENT Document
Submitted
Name of the Firm / Agency / Dealer / Supplier with full Yes / NA

address including contact number and email id etc.

Trade License issued by Government / Statutory Body or pverne | Yarn
Yes / No Yes / NA

GST Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder.

PAN Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder

Company Registration on the item(s) related to this tender.

Financial Solvency issued by Bank(as per RBI guidelines)

(in case of estimated cost is Rs.25.00 lakhs and above). Nene me ens
Up to date GST return / any other tax clearance certificate

last three years. Yes/No Yes /NA
Up to date Income Tax Return for last three years

Service Support details (if applicable)

Certification of holiday and non-black listing (Self
Certification
Certification as per memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD
Yes / No Yes / NA

14 dated 8 February 2021, Dept. of Expenditure, Ministry of
Finance, Govt. of India (Self Certification

12 Proprietary Certificate from OEM to be uploaded along y
with the Technical Bid in case of Proprietary items = ined
Certificate under MSME, NSIC, Make-in-India & Startup as
per Govt. of India Norms (if applicable).
Experience, if any, with govt. sector /Public Undertaking

15 /Private sector (if applicable) (May be relaxed for MSME,| Yes/No Yes / NA
NSIC & Startup as per Govt. of India Norm
Any other criteria related to this tender.

Supplier/Firm/Bidder should accept all Terms &
17 Conditions and specification of the items given in the| Yes/No
Tender Document.

(Signature of the bidder

  
  
    

    
      

 

   

 

 

       

 

  

“Bid Security Declaration form” on Company Letter Head
Scanned copy to be uploaded along with Technical bid).

    

 

Bp
i

    
   

    
 
 
 
  

  
    
    
 

 

    

  

   

Manufacturers Authorization Form (MAF) (if applicable)

 
 
 
   
  

    
   
 

 

   
 

 
          

14 | Pa Be

WS Wear! A SERA

/2023


--- Page 18 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA.5/(144-Acad)/Classroom Bench/2022-23 Date: / /2023
Annexure-D
Bid Securing Declaration Form

DANES iosidea screenees eaRERESERS Pender Ret: Not scsi ccc Tendet 1D) eccccdocoseeerperseess

To (insert complete name and address of the purchaser)
I/We. The undersigned, declare that:

I/We understand that, according to your conditions, bids must be supported by a Bid Securing
Declaration.

I/We accept that I/We may be disqualified from bidding for any contract with you for a period of one
year from the date of notification if I am /We are in a breach of any obligation under the bid conditions,
because I/We

a) have withdrawn/modified/amended, impairs or derogates from the tender, my/our Bid during the
period of bid validity specified in the form of Bid; or

b) having been notified of the acceptance of our Bid by the purchaser during the period of bid validity
(i) fail or reuse to execute the contract, if required, or (ii) fail or refuse to furnish the Performance
Security, in accordance with the Instructions to Bidders.

I/We understand this Bid Securing Declaration shall cease to be valid if I am/we are not the successful
Bidder, upon the earlier of (i) the receipt of your notification of the name of the successful Bidder; or
(ii) thirty days after the expiration of the validity of my/our Bid.

Signed: (insert signature of person whose name and capacity are shown)

in the capacity of (insert legal capacity of person signing the Bid Securing Declaration)

Name: (insert complete name of person signing he Bid Securing Declaration)

Duly authorized to sign the bid for an on behalf of (insert complete name of Bidder)

Dated on day of (insert date of signing)

Corporate Seal (where appropriate)

(Note: In case of a Joint Venture, the Bid Securing Declaration must be in the name of all partners to
the Joint Venture that submits the bid)

15|Page
