
--- Page 1 ---
 

 

 

    
 
   
 

=

  
      
  
   
  
    
    
      
  

SLL Fs
LEXY Tess MeN eat AAT SATE
Cee NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
See” Fax ; 0381 254-6360, Website : http// www.nita.ac.in

 
 

No.F.NITA.11(20-ME)/Project DST/EXPERIMENTAL SETUP FEBRICATION-1
E-Tender Notice

Date: 1g / ey /2023

 

On behalf of National Institute of Technology Agartala, online quotation through Central Public
Procurement Portal (CPPP) are invited from the reputed resourceful Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/
Authorized Suppliers for supply of item(s)/goods/software etc. as per specification mentioned in Annexure of
tender document available at our website www.nita.ac.in, and central public procurement portal ie.
www.eprocure.gov.in. The tender document can be downloaded from the website http:// eprocure.gov.in

 
  
 

  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
    
 

 
  
   

Time and date of
opening of
Technical bid

Estimated
cost
(Rs. in Lakh)

  
 
 
 

  
      

Last date of
receipt of tender

  
 

wordag /
quaurjsedaq

 
    

  
   
    
    

No.F,.NITA.11(20-

 
   
   

 
  
  
 
  

   

 

Mechanical ME)/Project Experimental / Oo y 0657/2093 / j ic DOOR
1 Engineering DST/EXPERIMENT Setup Fabrication U % PM Aves PM
Department AL SETUP p to 3:00 t 3:00

FEBRICATION-1

 

The interested Manufacturers / Authorized Distributors/Authorized Suppliers may arrange online
submission of the tender through www.eprocure.gov.in along with scan copy of essential documents mentioned in
the tender document.

 

Tender(s) is/are to be submitted only online through central public procurement portal ie.
“http://eprucure.gov.in”. All the documents are to be scanned and uploaded along with the tender documents.

Tender sent by any other mode will not be accepted. _ ooo ..
ssl

nt Registrar

 

 
  


--- Page 2 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

      

No.F.NITA.11(20-ME)/Project DST/EXPERIMENTAL SETUP FEBRICATION-1 200 /4 Dy a

E- Tender Enquiry

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

Name of the Institute : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TE CHNOLOGY
AGARTALA

GST Number of the Institute : 16AAAGN0550K1ZG

PAN of the Institute : AAAGNOSS0K

TAN of the Institute : SHLNOO0719F

DSIR No. : TU/V/RG-CDE(1053)/2017 dated 15/03/2018

Institute Bank A/C No. : 030936141729 (IFSC: SBIN0011491) under SBI, NIT
Agartala Branch.

Name of Department / Branch : Mechanical Engineering Department

Enquiry / Reference Number » No.F.NITA.11(20-ME)/Project DST/EXPERIMENTAL SETUP

FEBRICATION-1
Some important/Critical dates:

Uploading on CPP Portal and | Date: y/ 0 f2023 Time: 5:00 PM
Department’s web-site
Bid submission start date Date: }3 0 2023 Time: 5:00 PM

 
 
    
 

   
  

Bid submission end date Date: [0/ 6 2023 Time: 3:00 PM
Opening of technical bid Date: /] / OS 023 Time: 3:00 PM

 
 
  

1jPage


--- Page 3 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

 

Details of e-tender document.

 

NIT, Agartala intends to purchase the commodities specified in
Annexure enclosed and invites quotations in accordance with the terms and
conditions detailed in the bid document. If you are interested, kindly submit
your offer with prices within the time mentioned above fulfilling all the terms

and conditions marked in the bid documents.

Assistarf Registrar (Purchase)

National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

Encl :

(1) Schedule of requirement, specifications, dates etc.
(2) Bid document containing detail terms and conditions.

2|Page


--- Page 4 ---
 

1.

3:

3|Pa

 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Schedule of requirements

Description of Goods/Service_ | Quantity

 

Laboratory Experimental Setup As per Annexure-A of Tender
01 (As per Annexure-A of Tender Document
Document)

Specifications and allied Technical Details

  

Laboratory Experimental Setup

(As per Annexure-A of Tender Document)

 

 

Estimated Cost

 

= 3.89 Lakhs

 

Quotations should be valid for a period of 180 days from the opening date of the
technical bid.

Bid Security or EMD: 2% of the estimated cost of the tender or Bidders should submit
“Bid Security Declaration Form” on company letter head as per annexure-D of this
tender document.

Performance Security: The amount of the Performance Security shall be 3%(three
percent) (not applicable for consumable items) of the Purchase Order / Contract value,
valid up to 60 days after the date of completion of contract obligations including
warranty obligations.

Delivery Option: 60 (sixty) days after receipt of the purchase/work order(s).
Please go through the enclosed “bid document” carefully for other bidding instructions.

For any technical details, you may contact’ through — email-id:
buycon6. nit.tr@gembuyer.in.

Yours sincerely,

Ayo
Assistant Registrar (Purchase)
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 5 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

No.F.NITA.11(20-ME)/Project DST/EXPERIMENTAL SETUP FEBRICATION-1 Date:

i

BID DOCUMENT

Instructions to the bidders

1.1

£2

1.3

1.4

1.5

1.6

1.7

1.8

1.9

1.10

4|Page

Bids are invited through e-tender on behalf of the National Institute of
Technology Agartala, Tripura, Agartala-799046 from the intending bidders for
supply of the goods/stores/ equipments/Learning resources for the Institute as
detailed in the enquiry letter.

The bidders should quote their rates in clear terms without ambiguity. The
quotation should be only in Indian Rupees for indigenous items. In case of
foreign quote, the vendors may quote their rates in Indian Rupees as well as in
Foreign Currency.

The last date & time for submission of the bid is marked in the enquiry.

The bids should be submitted online through www.epuocure.gov.in before the
last date & time of submission specified in tender document.

Bids received after the deadline of receipt indicated in para 1.4 above, shall not
be taken into consideration.

Each bidder shall submit only one bid against one enquiry. A bidder, who
submits more than one bid against single enquiry, shall be disqualified and
considered non-responsive.

The bidder has to enclose a check list at per Annexure - C duly filled in along
with all relevant/supporting documents while submitting technical bid through

www.eprocure.gov.in.

Opening of Bids by the Purchaser will be done as per the provisions of the e-
procurement system.

At any time prior to the due date for submission of bids, the Purchaser may, for
any reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to a Clarification
requested by a prospective bidder, modify the bidding documents by
amendment.

All prospective bidders are expected to surf the website before formulating and
submitting their bids to take cognizance of the amendments.

National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA) is registered with the
Department of Science & Industrial Research, Government of India vide
No.TU/V/RG-CDE(1053)/2022 dated 08.12.2022 for availing Custom duty
exemption as follows:


--- Page 6 ---
TS Weal GM SPAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

  

Custom | The Purchaser is registered with Department of Scientific and
Industrial Research (DSIR) for purposes of availing Custom Duty
Exemption in terms of Notification No. 51/96 Custom dated 23-07-
1996, amended by notification no. 43/2017 dated 30-06-2017,
further amended by notification no. 42/2022 — Custom dated 13-07-
2022 (if applicable).

    
   
   
     

Yours sincerely,

A w—
AssiStant Registrar (Purchase)
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura

§|Page


--- Page 7 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

No.F.NITA.11(20-ME)/Project DST/EXPERIMENTAL SETUP FEBRICATION-1 Date:

2.

General Terms & Conditions:

2.1

Ae

2.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

2.7

2.8

6|Page

The rates quoted should preferably be on basic price, Annual
Maintenance Charges(if applicable), packing, forwarding, freight,
Insurance and all other incidental charges and all rates should be
based on delivery by the Supplier /Bidders at National Institute of
Technology, Agartala.

All taxes and duties will be paid extra and such amounts of
mandatory/statutory taxes & duties shall be explicitly mentioned in
BOQ while submitting of bid.

Price has to be filled through CPP portal as per BOQ
(https://www.eprocure.gov.in). The scanned copy of Price Bid, dully filled in,
has to be uploaded on the above e-procurement site. The prices filled in the e-
procurement site will be treated final and shall be binding to the vendor.

Insurance: The Goods supplied under the Contract shall be fully insured against
any loss or damage incidental to manufacture or acquisition, transportation,
storage and delivery up to the final destination.

All the Machines/Equipments/goods will be covered by Annual Maintenance
Contract (AMC) / CMC/ Warranty beyond the normal warranty/guarantee period.
Interested bidders are requested to quote price against AMC/Extended warranty
as an optional item in the price bid. Optional items will not be taken into
consideration while selecting L; bidder.

AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty will be awarded after completion of standard
warranty period. AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty may be carried out only after
receipt of confirmation letter from this Institute. The Institute will not be
responsible for any due payments / obligations may arise as a result of
execution of AMC/CMC/Extended Warranty without confirmation letter from this
Institute.

Conditional discount, if any, offered by the bidder shall not be considered at the
time of evaluation.

The bidders who are registered as a Micro or Small Enterprise under
NSIC/MSME organization of Govt. of India for exemption of submitting
EMD/Bid security must enclose relevant documentary proof of
authentication of their firm’s registration for the specific
item(s)/Services.


--- Page 8 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

2.9 If the bidder is a Micro or Small Enterprise as per latest definitions under MSME
rules, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of "Bidder Turnover"
criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the offered products, it
would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover" criteria. In case any
bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover /Experience Criteria, the supporting
documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be uploaded with technical
bid.

2.10 If the bidder is a Startup, the bidder shall be exempted from the requirement of
"Bidder Turnover" criteria and "Experience Criteria". If the bidder is OEM of the
offered products, it would also be exempted from the "OEM Average Turnover"
criteria. In case any bidder is seeking exemption from Turnover / Experience
Criteria, the supporting documents to prove his eligibility for exemption must be
uploaded with technical bid.

2.11 National Institute of Technology, Agartala is following and abide with the Public
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017, DIPP, MoCI Order No.
P-45021/2/2017-B.E.II dated 15th June 2017 and subsequent amendments to
the order. Accordingly preference will be given to the Make in India products
while evaluating the bids, however, it is the sole responsibility of the bidder(s)
to specify the product quoted by them is of Make in India product along with
respective documentary evidence as stipulated in the aforesaid order in the
technical bid itself.

2.12 Onsite Comprehensive Warranty:

e The successful bidder shall provide a Comprehensive Warranty for minimum
period of 2 years after the installation and commissioning of the instrument /
software/items. If within a warranty period after installation any such product
or component is proven to be defective such product shall be repaired or
replaced by the supplier/vendor. Such repair and replacement shall be sole
obligation of supplier/vendor. Supplier / vendor shall be responsible for
payment for all charges (to-and-fro) for repair/ replacement. Any design
defects or installations deficiencies or any outer defects, if noticed during the
warranty/ maintenance period, shall be rectified promptly by the successful
bidder with no cost at all the places, which also includes the field installations.

e Down-time call attendance should be within 24 hrs.

e In case the Equipment / System remains non-operational for more than 5
days then warranty period will be extended for the equal period for which
Equipment / System remained non-operational. Warranty extension in such
case shall be done without prejudice to any other Term & condition of the
contract.

2.13 The documentary evidence of the bidders qualification to perform the contract if
the bid is accepted shall establish to the purchasers satisfaction that:

 

| (a) | The bidder meets the

 

qualification criteria listed in bidding documents, if any.

   

7| Pa ZC


--- Page 9 ---
 

 
 

8|P

2.14

2.16

2.17

2.18

2.19

2.20

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Bidder who doesn’t manufacture the goods it offers to supply shall submit
Manufacturers’ Authorization Form using the form specified in the bidding
document to demonstrate that it has been duly authorized by the
manufacturer of the goods to quote and / or supply the goods/services.

 
     
 

      
       

The successful bidder has to furnish “Performance Guarantee/Security” (not
applicable for consumable items) for an amount specified in the enquiry by E-
Payment System to NITA Account within 15(fifteen) days of intimation of
contract/supply order.

Alternatively, “Performance Guarantee/Security” will be retained by the Institute
from the billed amount of the contract/supply order which will be released two
months after the completion of warranty period (not applicable for consumable
items).

Delivery Schedule: As per e-Tender.

The item(s)/goods are required to be delivered at the indenting Department of
National Institute of Technology, Agartala, and must be dispatched within
specified days from the date of placement of the supply/purchase/work order.

If the supplier fails to Supply, Install and Commission the system as per
specifications mentioned in the order within the due date, the Supplier is liable
to pay liquidated damages of 0.5% of order value per week of delay subject to a
maximum of 3%, as the case may be, beyond the due date. Such money will be
deducted from any amount due or which may become due to the supplier.

Force Majeure: Notwithstanding the provisions of clauses relating to Extension
of Time, Penalty and Termination for Default the Supplier shall not be liable for
forfeiture of its Performance Security, Liquidated Damages or Termination for
Default, if and to the extent that, its delay in performance or other failure to
perform its obligations under the Contract is the result of an event of Force
Majeure.

The successful bidder(s) may be required to execute a contract on the basis of
item wise evaluation as per annexure(s) (where is applicable).

NIT Agartala will reject a proposal for award if it determines that the Bidder
recommended for award has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt,
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices in competing for the Contract in
question.

The bidder has to furnish up to date GST and Income Tax return of last three
financial years along with valid trade license.

Payment: 100% will be made in INR (Indian National Rupees) after
successful Installation, Commissioning of item against submission


--- Page 10 ---
 

2.21

2.22
2.23

2.24

2.25

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

of Performance Guaranty (PG) (not applicable for consumable
items) otherwise an equal amount of PG will be retained by the
Institute till the completion of warranty obligations.

Note: All payments due under the contract shall be paid after deduction of
statutory levies at source (like ESIC, IT (TDS), GST, LBT / Octroi etc.), wherever
applicable.

In the event of any dispute arising out of the bid or from the resultant contract,
the decision of the Competent Authority, National Institute of Technology,
Agartala shall be final.

The bid document/resultant contract will be interpreted under Indian Laws.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala will not take any responsibility for
arranging road permit/way bill or clearance from tax department for delivery of
goods. All such requirements should be completed by the bidder for delivery of
goods at National Institute of Technology, Agartala. GST payment, if required,
should be paid by successful bidder and if GST not paid, National Institute of
Technology, Agartala will deduct the applicable amount from successful bidder’s
bills and pay the same to Tax Authority. If there is any mandatory tax(es) other
than GST/other taxes mentioned in this tender document, imposed by State
Govt., the same may also be deducted from the bills of the successful bidder, as
applicable.

Competent Authority of National Institute of Technology, Agartala
reserves the right to cancel the entire e-tendering process at any
stage of the procurement process without mentioning any reason.
Legal disputes, if any with NIT Agartala will be restricted within the
jurisdiction of Agartala only.

Yours sincerely,

ade (Purchase)

National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 11 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

No.F.NITA.11(20-ME)/Project DST/EXPERIMENTAL SETUP FEBRICATION-1 Date:

3.

10)?

Special Terms & Conditions:

3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

3.6

3.7

3.8

39
3.10

Acceptance of Technical bid strictly depends on National Institute of Technology,
Agartala’s requirements credentials, manufacturing capability, quality control
systems, past performance, after-sales service, financial background,
commercial terms & conditions etc. of the supplier(s).

Detailed Specifications, brand, make, model & parts number, tolerance limit,
resolution, corresponding ISO standard etc. of quoted Equipments/Items should
be mentioned with supported leaflet and list of buyers for acceptance of
technical bid.

The technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted through
www.eprocure.gov.in. The technical bids shall be opened and evaluated by the
competent committee/authority. At the second stage, financial bids of only the
technically qualified offers shall be opened for further evaluation and
recommendations for awarding the purchase order/contract.

It may specifically be mentioned whether quotation is strictly as per terms and
conditions of the tender. Deviation, if any, must be spelt out specifically in
technical bid. In the absence of this, the quotation may be rejected.

Installation & Commissioning: Within 15 (fifteen) days after delivery (if
applicable).

The Quantity of each Item(s)/Equipment(s) may increase (as per Govt. Norms)
or decrease at the time of issued of Purchase / Supply / Work Order. The
Institute reserves right to purchase partly or not to purchase any item / cancel
the entire process at any stage of procurement process.

Penalty: Penalty will be charged @ 0.5 % of per week except for force majeure
conditions for the unexecuted part of the supply/work order.

Arbitration: All disputes should be attempted to be resolve mutually between the
National Institute of Technology, Agartala and the suppliers failing which
jurisdiction of any Court of Agartala shall be applicable.

The successful bidder has to give at least 3-4 days on site training for each &
every items/equipments by Certified Person (if required).

Model No. of the product should be given with catalogue (if any).

Items/Goods should be sent through Registered Transporter (preferably).


--- Page 12 ---
 

gil

3.14

11|Page

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Bidders are required to upload a declaration on letter head stating that the
bidder has mot been _ black-listed & holiday’ listed by any
Ministry/Department/Organization.

Bidder(s) is/are required to upload a self certification regarding
offered item(s) as per Office Memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD
dated 8 February, 2021 issued by Department of Expenditure,
Procurement Policy Division, Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India.

Bidders are requested to provide valid e-mail ID and phone number for further
communication.

Bank A/C in the Exact Name of Bidder/Firm/Supplier with Name, A/C No., IFSC
code must be furnished with technical bid.

Yours sincerely,

—_—

Assistant Regist rar (Purchase)
National Institute of Technology
Agartala — 799 046, Tripura


--- Page 13 ---
An

Experimental Setup Fabrication yf

Item description QTY. | Estimated
: Total Price
In Rs.

Process Tank — 1

  
 

         

 
 

MOC: MS with Anti Rust Coatings
Capacity: 50 Litters

Type: Open Top

Connections: 2” Bottom Connection’
Temperature Sensor: RTD PT-100 x 1
Heater Coil: 2K W Immersion Heater
Process Tank —2

 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  

  
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
 

 
  

Experimental

  

 
  
  
  
  
  
  

Setup
Fabrication | MOC: MS with Anti Rust Coatings
(Supply, Fitting, | Capacity: 50 Litters .

fixing, fabrication,
and installation
complete as per the
direction of the
PI/COPI and
schematic figure .)

Type: Open Top

Connections: 2” Connection for Water Inlet and
Outlet

Drain: 2” Bottom Connection

   
  
 
  
 
 

  

Test Chamber for Parallel Flow

 
 
 

MOC: Acrylic
Length: 2000 mm

ID: 40 mm

Thickness: 5 mm or higher

Fitting Arrangements for Thermocouples, Pressure
Transmitter, And Parallel Flow Nozzle.

End Connections: Suitable 4” Female Threaded
Couplings to fit with CPVC Water Line.

Viewing Jacket: Suitable Size Water filled Acrylic
Jacket for stabilized visualization using external
camera.

    
   
   
   
    
 
   
 

Test Chamber for Cross Flow

 
 
 

MOC: Acrylic
Length: 2000 mm

ID: 40 mm

Thickness: 5 mm or higher

Fitting Arrangements for Thermocouples, Pressure
Transmitter, And Parallel Flow Nozzle.

End Connections: Suitable %” Female Threaded
Couplings to fit with CPVC Water Line.

 
    
 
   
   

 
    
   
 
 
 
 
   
 


--- Page 14 ---
  
  

  
 
    
   
 
   
 
 
 

 

Viewing Jacket: Suitable Size Water filled Acrylic
Jacket for stabilized visualization using external
camera.

Steam Generation Tube

  
    
 
   
    
   
 
 

MOC: SS - 304
Length: 1000 mm

ID: 5 mm

Thickness: 1 mm

Fitting Arrangements for Thermocouple and spline
Needle with different Flow Arrangements
Parallel Flow Nozzle

 
 

 
 
    
   
   

MOC: SS Spline Needle
Type: Straight with PVC Insulation for exposed
portion within the test chamber.

Fitting Arrangements to fit with Steam Generation
Tube.
Cross Flow Nozzle

 
   
 
 

 
 
    
 
    

MOC: SS Spline Needle
Type: Right angle with PVC Insulation for exposed
portion within the test chamber.

Fitting Arrangements to fit with Steam Generation
Tube.
Water pump

     
 

 
 
    
   
 
 
   
 
 
    
 

MOC: CS
Type: Mono Block Centrifugal Pump.
Capacity: Fractional HP.

I/P: 230 V AC

Fitting Arrangements to fit with 4” CPVC Piping

Rotameter

  

 
 

MOC: Acrylic
Range: 0-5 LPM

Resolution: 0.2 LPM

Supporting Structure, Piping and Electrical panel

     
 
 

 
 
   
   
   
   
    
  

MOC: MS Powder Coated / Anti Rust Coating
Suitable Metal Frame would be fabricated for
mounting all above listed components.

¥” CPVC Piping to be used for connecting tanks and
other components.

Proper structure wiring with suitable electrical panel
to mount all electronic components with DC SMPS
would be provided.

    

ae 2 Fyohi_ hun Ti

xe” os] 4

a LS

 


--- Page 15 ---
 

 

Uy

Temperature Sensor

Type: Thermocouple K

Probe Diameter: Suitable for Test Chamber
Probe Length: Suitable for Test Chamber
Pressure Sensor

Type: Electronic Pressure Transmitter
Range: Suitable for Test Chamber
I/P: 24 V DC

O/P: 4-20 mA

Data Acquisition Card

Thermocouple Inputs Channel: 08
Analog Input Channel: 08 (current)
Sampling Rate: 1K/sec
Communication: LAN or USB
Supply Volt: 24 V DC

Data Acquisition Software

Features:
Window Base User-Friendly Software
Lifetime License Validity
No Upgrade Required
No License Renewal
Real time Data Monitoring
Data Export to csv with date and time stamp.
Real Time Data Monitoring

Multi-Functional Printer

Features:
Black and White Laser Printer
Print
Scan
Copy

Warranty period: -

SSque sent y ve
1 aed .

{Onsight installation, commissioning and 24 months
of warranty from date of supp]

Ep A

    
 

Lp a


--- Page 16 ---
 

Viewsig window for image

    
  

   

Test Section
(Dieton
Intel Acrylic Sheet Hwrciia

“ 0.05Litisec)
Nichrome wire F

 

i
Tank 2 (SOLit)

 

~ Tank 1 (SOLt)

 

Cele wrk’

Figure; Experimental test rig to investigate the two-phase bubble condensation

“eb 0

30) 08] 202L.

valve

0 ne er

|
|

 


--- Page 17 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

 

No.F.NITA.11(20-ME)/Project DST/EXPERIMENTAL SETUP FEBRICATION-1 Date:

ANNEXURE — B

PRICE BID

As per BOQ

13|P ive


--- Page 18 ---
TSS Wert AIM Sel

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

No.F.NITA. 11(20-ME)/Project DST/EXPERIMENTAL SETUP FEBRICATION-1 Date:

ANNEXURE - C

Documents for Comprising the Bid

TENDER REQUIREMENT Document
Submitted
Name of the Firm / Agency / Dealer / Supplier with full Yes / No Yes / NA
address including contact number and email id etc.
Trade License issued by Government / Statutory Body or
Company Registration on the item(s) related to this tender. | Yes/No | Yes/NA
GST Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder.
PAN Registration of the Supplier/Firm/Bidder

Financial Solvency issued by Bank(as per RBI guidelines)

(in case of estimated cost is Rs.25.00 lakhs and above). Wea | Fes/'NA
Up to date GST return / any other tax clearance certificate

last three years. Yes/No | Yes/NA

7 Up to date Income Tax Return for last three years Yes / NA

Service Support details (if applicable)

10 Certification of holiday and non-black listing (Self Yes / No Yes / NA
Certification
Certification as per memorandum No. F.18/37/2020-PPD
41 dated 8 February 2021, Dept. of Expenditure, Ministry of Yes / No Yes / NA
Finance, Govt. of India (Self Certification
Proprietary Certificate from OEM to be uploaded along Yes /N Yes / NA
fae with the Technical Bid in case of Proprietary items ane wa
}13 | Manufacturers Authorization Form (MAF) (if applicable)
Certificate under MSME, NSIC, Make-in-India & Startup as
: ; Yes /N Yes / NA
sa per Govt. of India Norms (if applicable). wy
Experience, if any, with govt. sector /Public Undertaking
/Private sector (if applicable) (May be relaxed for MSME,| Yes/No Yes / NA
NSIC & Startup as per Govt. of India Norm
ca Any other criteria related to this tender.
Supplier/Firm/Bidder should accept all Terms &
Conditions and specification of the items given in the| Yes/No
Tender Document.

(Signature of the bidder)

    

     
       

 

     

 

 
   
         
        
    

  
 

 
   

    
     

          

     

14|Page


--- Page 19 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

 

No.F.NITA.11(20-ME)/Project DST/EXPERIMENTAL SETUP FEBRICATION-1 Date:

Annexure-D
Bid Securing Declaration Form

Datte:.....cccccccsecseceeseeeeeeees Tender Ref. No: .......cccceceecceceeeees Tender ID? siiisccccscccccsvaceasees

To (insert complete name and address of the purchaser)
I/We. The undersigned, declare that:

I/We understand that, according to your conditions, bids must be supported by a Bid Securing
Declaration.

I/We accept that I/We may be disqualified from bidding for any contract with you for a period of one
year from the date of notification if I am /We are in a breach of any obligation under the bid conditions,
because I/We

a) have withdrawn/modified/amended, impairs or derogates from the tender, my/our Bid during the
period of bid validity specified in the form of Bid; or

b) having been notified of the acceptance of our Bid by the purchaser during the period of bid validity
(i) fail or reuse to execute the contract, if required, or (ii) fail or refuse to furnish the Performance
Security, in accordance with the Instructions to Bidders.

I/We understand this Bid Securing Declaration shall cease to be valid if I am/we are not the successful
Bidder, upon the earlier of (i) the receipt of your notification of the name of the successful Bidder; or
(ii) thirty days after the expiration of the validity of my/our Bid.

Signed: (insert signature of person whose name and capacity are shown)

in the capacity of (insert legal capacity of person signing the Bid Securing Declaration)

Name: (insert complete name of person signing he Bid Securing Declaration)

Duly authorized to sign the bid for an on behalf of (insert complete name of Bidder)

Dated on day of (insert date of signing)

Corporate Seal (where appropriate)

(Note: In case of a Joint Venture, the Bid Securing Declaration must be in the name of all partners to
the Joint Venture that submits the bid)

15|Pagc
