
--- Page 1 ---
bo oa.

 

 

National Institute of Technology Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 

Be SPRATT

National Institute of Technology Agartala

No. F. NITA. 2(545-Estt)/ 2022/4662 . Date: October f0, 2023
FACULTY RECRUITMENT NOTICE

Online applications are invited for recruitment to the posts of Professor and
Associate Professor at NIT Agartala in various Academic Departments. The
applicants may apply through online application submission system available at the
Institute website (http://www.nita.ac.in/). The candidate, who have already applied
through rolling advertisement vide No. F. NITA. 2 (545-ESTT)/ 2022/1/ 159,
dated: 11 April, 2022, need not to apply again, however they are allowed to
update their information (if any) using their earlier login credentials.

Applicants are requested to go through the details of posts, educational
qualifications, experience, others criteria and instructions for selection to faculty

positions, which are available on the Institute website (http://www.nita.ac.in/).

Opening date of Online portal : 12-10-2023.
Last date of Submission of online application : 08-11-2023.

Reservation policy for different category will be applicable as per Govt. of India
norms. Applicants can submit their online applications at any time on or after the
opening date. Applicants are requested to go through the details of posts, educational
qualifications, experience, other criteria and instruction for selection to faculty
positions, which are available on the Institute website (http://www.nita.ac.in/).

REGISTRAR

 

PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - reqistrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac.in, http://www.nita.ac.in,

 


--- Page 2 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 

 

No. F. NITA. 2(545-Estt)/ 2022/ Date: October , 2023
FACULTY RECRUITMENT NOTICE

Online applications are invited for the recruitment of faculty positions to the post of Professor
and Associate Professor against the advertisement. The details of vacancy position as available in
the Institute are given below:
A. Vacancy Details.
Professor and Associate Professor:
Minimum Pay Level for the Post of Professor is 14A (Rs. 159100 — 220200) and Associate
as per revised pay.
| 6. | Electronics and Communication Engineering |
;

       
  

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  

  
 

Professor — 16 nos.

     
 

Associate Professor — 39 nos.

Mechanical Engineering
Production Engineeting
10.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

U1
12
13

[*Reservation policy for different categories viz. EWS, SC, ST, OBC, PwD will be as per Govt.
of India norms. Candidates belonging to different categories of reservation will need to submit
the valid certificate at the time of joining in case of selection.]

Online applications are invited in the prescribed format for the recruitment to various Faculty
positions in the Institute. Applicants are requested to go through the details of posts, educational
qualifications, experience, other criteria and instructions for selection to faculty positions, which
are available on the website (http://www.nita.ac.in/).

Qualification:

Detailed educational qualification, experience and other criteria for selection of faculty positions
shall be as per the Schedule “E” of the First Statutes of NIT (Amendment Statues, 2017) (Ref.
Gazette of India dated July 24, 2017) and subsequent clarifications received from Ministry of
HRD, New Delhi. The details are available on the website (http://www.nita.ac.in/). Areas of
specialization in various departments are available on the Institute website as Annexure — I.

osha,
REGISTRA °

NIT AGARTALA

PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - reqistrar@nita ac.in, recrustment@nita.ac.in, http://www.nita.ac.in.


--- Page 3 ---
@-

USS Weihtel Fea SARA
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 

 

Annexure - I

Area of specialization for recruitment of Professor and
Associate Professor

RHEE ERRRRRRRE
Online applications are invited for the recruitment of faculty positions to the post of Professor and Associate
Professor against the advertisement.

(i) Professor — Minimum Pay Level 14A (Rs. 159100 — 220200) as per 7 CPC.
(ii) | Associate Professor — Minimum Pay Level 13A2 (Rs. 139600 — 211300) as per 7" CPC.

NAME OF THE DEPARTMENT AREA OF SPECIALIZATION REQUIRED
NO.

] Bio-Engineering Bioprocess Engineering, Downstream Processing &
Environmental Biotechnology, Biotechnology,

Molecular Biology & Genetic Engineering, Metabolic

Engineering, Food process engineering, Bio
2.
3.
4,
TES= hol '

informatics, Animal Bio technology, Chemical
PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,

Engineering.
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - reqistrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac.in, http://www.nita.ac.in.

    

        
 
 
       
   

  
   
 
   
 

Bio chemical or Bioprocess Engineering, Chemical
Reaction Engineering and _ catalysis, Chemical
Technology or Chemical Processing, Chemical
Process Control and Optimization, Chemical Process
or System Engineering, Energy Technology or Fuel
Technology, Environmental Engineering, Fluid
Mechanics and Dynamics, Heat Transfer and
Thermodynamics, Modelling, Simulation and
Numerical Analysis, Materials Engineering, Process
and Equipment Design and Computer Aided Design,
Petroleum and Petrochemical Engineering,
Technology for Polymer/ Polymeric products,
Separation and Purification processes, Any emerging
area of specialization related to Chemical Engineering
discipline.
Environmental Engineering, Geotechnical
Engineering, Water Resource _—_ Engineering,
Transportation Engineering, Seismic Science and
Engineering, Hydro Informatics Engineering,
Structural Engineering, Seismic Science.
Artificial Intelligence, HPC, Data Science,
Networking & loT, Computer Vision, Cyber Security
and Cryptography, Software Engineering, NLP, Image
Processing, Data Analytics, Distributed Systems.

Chemical Engineering

      
  

  
   
    
 
      
 
    
 
      
 
   
  
     

  
        
 

     

  

Civil Engineering

  
 
   
        
     
   

 
        
    

     
  
 
 

           

Computer Science & Engineering
and
Master of Computer Application

   
   
 

7

 

 


--- Page 4 ---
Br

National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 
  
 
       
 
 
     
   
    

 

Electrical Machines, Control Systems, Power System/
Power Engineering, Communication System,
Application of (AI and Expert System, Machine
Learning, Algorithm and Data Structure, Data
Science, Data Mining), DSP/ Signal Processing, High
Voltage Engineering, Renewable Energy.
All areas of VLSI and Embedded System, Nano
electronics.

Communication:

Wireless Communication, Data Communication and
Networking, Networking and Cryptography. Optical
Communication, Internet of Things (IoT), Information
theory and Coding.

Signal Processing:

Computer Vision, RADAR Signal Processing, Remote
Sensing, Signal Processing.

Microwave Engineering and Antenna:

Microwave Engineering, Computational
Electromagnetics, Metamaterials, Antenna Design.
Application of Artificial Intelligence in areas of
Electronics and Communication.
Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering:
Instrumentation and control, Electronic/ Electrical
Instrumentation, Sensor and transducer, Biomedical
Signal processing/ Biomedical Instrumentation,
Industrial Instrumentation, Process control, Industrial
process control and instrumentation.

Analog and digital Communication and signal system:
Signal Processing, Embedded system, Industrial
Electronics.

Photonics/ Optics and Optoelectronics:

Optoelectronic instrumentation, non linear optics.
Application of Artificial Intelligence —_to
instrumentation engineering :

Machine Learning/ big data analysis, Deep Learning,
Natural Language Processing, Artificial Neural
Network, Cognitive Computing and IoT. .
Machine Design, Manufacturing Technology, Thermal
Science and Engineering.

   
     
    
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
       
 
    
   
     

     

Electronics and Communication
Engineering

     

    
   
 
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
       
     

Electronics and Instrumentation
Engineering

 
 
   

 

  
   
  
   

Mechanical Engineering

        

    
 
 
  

    

Industrial Engineering, Materials Engineering,
Manufacturing, Thermal Engineering, Production
Management, Production Engineering, Thermo-
fluidics, Machine Design.
Physical Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Inorganic
Chemistry, Analytical Chemistry.

Production Engineering

PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629, oss aly a
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - registrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac.in, http://www.nita.ac.in.

 
  
 

   
 
     

 


--- Page 5 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 

Physics Computational Physics, Classical Mechanics,
Electrodynamics, Quantum Mechanics, Statistical
Mechanics, Electronics, Nuclear Physics, Condensed
matter Physics, Atomic and Molecular Spectroscopy,
Quantum Field theory, Gravitation and cosmology,
Computational Physics, Plasma Physics, Spintronics,
Thin film and Nano Science, Liquide crystal.

12. | Mathematics Computational Physics, Algebra, Real and complex

Analysis, Geometry and Topology, Probability and
Statistics, Fuzzy Mathematics, Stochastic processes,
Differential Equation, Operations Research, Financial
Mathematics, Discrete Mathematics, soft Computing,
Artificial Intelligence, Algorithm, Data Base
Management System, Machine Learning, Cloud
Computing Dynamical System, Quantum Computing,
Engineering Economics and Accountancy,
Computational Mathematics, Bio-Mathematics, Data
Science.

Management, Humanities & Social Management:

Sciences Marketing, Finance, Human Resource, Decision
Science, Operation Management, Digital Marketing,
Business Analytics, Accountancy.
Economics:
Econometrics, Public Policy and Management,
International Finance.
English:
Open.

 

PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jiranta, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail ~ reqistrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac in, http://www.nita.ac.in.

 

 

 


--- Page 6 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR RECRUITMENT OF FACULTY POSITIONS

1. How to Apply:

The eligible candidates will be required to apply through online application submission portal
available on the Institute website http://www.nita.ac.in. Candidates are advised to make sure that
all the details as entered are correct before final submission. The online portal will allow the
candidate to take print of the filled-in application after successful electronic submission. Every
completed online application shall be identified by a unique application reference number. The
applicant has to take printout of the online application after final submission. Applications
received through any other mode shall not be accepted and will be summarily rejected.

NOTE:
(i) After final submission the data cannot be altered further.
(ii) All qualifications, experience and preferred age limit will be considered as on the last date of
submission of online application.
(iii)Application Fee: Candidate should pay a nonrefundable application fee through online
payment mode at the time of final submission of the application as below
e For the candidates other than SC/ST/PwD category: INR 1000 (rupees one
thousand only) per application.
@ For SC/ST category : INR 500 (Rupees five hundred only) per application.
e PwD category : No fee is required.
(iv)There is no need to send any hard copy of application. However at the time of documents
verification online generated application along with annexures with signature are to be
submitted.

2. Candidature will be considered on receipt of online application with application fee.

3. Serving faculty members of the NIT Agartala may also apply for higher Academic Pay level
or cadre.

4. Persons serving in Govt. / Semi Govt. / PSUs / Universities / Educational Institutions should
furnish a NO OBJECTION CERTIFICATE (NOC) from the Competent Authority of the
organization serving, at the time of document verification.

5. Reservation policy and age relaxation for different category is applicable as per Govt. of
India norms.

6. Original, Relevant Caste/Category certificates are to be produced at the time of verification/
presentation/ interview, if shortlisted.

7. OBC certificate issued in the current financial year shall only be considered for reservation
under OBC (Non-Creamy Layer) category. EWS certificate issued for the income of
preceding financial year shall be considered as valid for the current financial year.

8. The persons with disability (PwD) shall be required to submit the Disability/ Medical
Certificate in the prescribed form issued by the competent medical authorities for the purpose
of employment as per Government of India norms at the time of verification/ presentation/
interview. Persons suffering from not less than 40% of the disability shall only be eligible
for the benefit of reservation under this category.

9. The Institute reserves the right to modify/ defer or cancel the advertisement/ recruitment at
any stage of procession without assigning any reasons.

eral +

PO- NIT Agartala, Banala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - registrar@nita.ac.in, recruttment@nita.ac.in, http://www.nita.ac.in.

 


--- Page 7 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala

ete, Tripura, India, Pin -799046

   

 

10. The Institute has the right to set norms higher than the minimum eligibility criteria and areas
of specialization while short listing, taking into accounts the specific requirements of the
individual departments. The shortlisting norms may not be uniform across the departments/
posts of the Institute and shall be binding on all the applicants. The decision of the Institute
related to all matters pertaining to the recruitment shall be final and binding on the
applicants.
11. Apart from merit, the specialization of a candidate within a department will pay a vital role in
selection. Candidates with specialization having greater need by the department will be given
preference. Candidates with studentship or work experience in reputed Universities,
Institution or Industry or with greater relevance to the academic programmes of the
department will be given preference.
12. The essential qualifications, requirements and credit points are the minimum criteria only for
deciding the eligibility. This shall not ensure short-listings for further selection processes.
The Institute reserves rights to set a higher criterion for short listing. The Institute reserves
the right to screen and call only those candidates who are found prima-facie suitable for
being considered by the Section Committee. Thus, just mere fulfilling the prescribed
conditions would not entitle the candidates to be called for presentation and interview. The
Institute reserves the right to restrict the number of candidates to be called for interview to a
reasonable limit on the basis of qualifications and experience higher than the minimum
prescribed in the advertisement and other academic achievements. Candidates are expected to
have good academic records throughout with education from reputed institutions.
13. Departments will make attempt to set “shortlisting criteria” that can be easily implemented.
But, considering the multiple attributes that need to be considered, it may become necessary
to make case by case exceptions. Shortlisting criteria may include, among others, such
condition such as
(i) Superior academic records — all through first class or higher grades in B. Tech./ M. Tech/
M. Sce/ M.A/ MBA/ M. Com. Higher than the advertised criteria;

(ii) Reputation of the institutions from where the candidate has obtained degrees;

(iii) Number of unsuccessful attempts for the same post;

(iv) Specializations, including micro specialization;

(v) Professional service record — reputation of organization where experience has been
earned, nature of job, current activities etc.

14, Recruitment to all the posts of faculty positions will be on direct selection basis only.

15.If required, written tests may be conducted for candidates in the specified
department(s) for the post of faculty positions. The date and time may be found in the
intimation mail sent to the candidates and also available in the recruitment website i.e.
https://www.nita.ac.in. In that case, based on the performance in the Written Test
candidates will be shortlisted for the subsequent selection process i.e., Presentation and
interview after documents verification.

The Institute may, however, call the candidates directly for presentation and Interview,
without any written test. With regard to the above, the decision of Institute shall be final and
binding.

wash tey? 4

PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail ~ registrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac.in, http://www.nita.ac.in.

 


--- Page 8 ---
 

 

National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 

16. The provisionally shortlisted candidates, after the process as mentioned above have to
appear for documents verification with the original certificates, failing which they will
not be considered for Presentation/ Interview.

17. Selected candidates on regular positions will be under probation and will be confirmed
subject to satisfactory completion of the probation and other requirements as per Institute
rules.

18. Candidates who wish to apply for more than one post should apply separately for each post in
the prescribed manner with requisite fee at the time of final submission of the application.

19. Candidates having Ph.D. directly after B. Tech. or Equivalent may also apply and shall be
considered eligible, if other norms are fulfilled.

20. Candidates shall indicate two references of eminent persons in the Field/ Profession who may
be contacted by the Institute for their recommendations.

21. For the Academic Departments which are not having any vacancy/ advertised specialization,
movement in Higher Academic Level/ Academic Grade Pay or Cadre may be carried out as
per specified selection process but will be restricted only to the serving faculty members in
regular pay scale of the respective Departments of the Institute.

22. All Original documents with one set of self-attested copies [educational qualifications, date
of birth, experience, caste certificate, identity proof (Election I-Card/UID Aadhar/PAN/ first
page of publications, check list etc.)] and two passport size recent photographs of the
candidate will have to be produced at the time of verification of documents / interview (if
shortlisted).

23. Name of the shortlisted candidates will be displayed in the Institute website. Beside, all
information regarding document verification/ presentation/ interview schedule etc. will also
be provided through the Institute website. The Institute will not be responsible in any
manner, if, a candidate fails to visit/ access the website in time. No correspondence
whatsoever will be entertained from candidates regarding the reason for not being called for
interview/ outcome of interview. Candidates are requested to regularly visit the Institute
website i.e., http://www.nita.ac.in for updated information.

24. The candidate is responsible for the correctness and authenticity of the information provided
in the application. If it is found at a later date that any information given in the application is
incorrect/ false, the candidature/ appointment of the candidate is liable to be cancelled/
terminated.

25. No TA/DA will be paid for attending the document verification/ presentation/ interview.

26. Canvassing in any manner would entail disqualification of the candidature.

27. Higher starting pay and /or pay level may be offered to deserving candidates on the
recommendation of the Selection Committee upon approval of the Board of Governors.
Selection Committee may also offer lower faculty position, than the post one has applied for.

28. Candidates in India, if invited, have to appear personally in the interview, while those abroad
may be interviewed by audio cum video link. If a candidate wishes to be interviewed
through the audio-visual mode, a request from the candidates should be sent to the Institute
giving all details for communication. Institute does not guarantee consistent internet
connectivity and hence the candidate will appear through this media at his/ her own
responsibility for internet connectivity. Institute will not take any responsibility for
connectivity.

29. Incomplete applications are liable to be rejected.

30. All qualifications, experiences and age limit will be considered as on the last date of the

PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - reqistrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac.in, http://www. nita.ac.in,


--- Page 9 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 

 

application submission or revised date whichever is applicable.

31. All educational qualifications mentioned in the application should be awarded by the
recognized University/ Institute/ Board.

32. MoE notification F. No. 33-9/2011-TS.III, dated: 04-12-2017 for implementation of
recruitment rules for faculty of NITs and IIEST will be followed.

33. Any subsequent changes received in recruitment rules or guidelines by the Council/ BoG/
MoE shall be applicable accordingly in the recruitment process.

34. DOCUMENTS / CERTIFICATES:

a. Self-attested copies of degree certificates from class X onwards along with mark statements
as proof of educational testimonials claimed. In case of non-issuance of any degree
certificate, provisional certificate along with mark sheets will be accepted.

b. Self-attested copies of certificate(s) for the entire experience claimed, clearly mentioning the
duration of employment (date, month and year), nature of the post (regular/ contractual)
indicating the basic pay or consolidated pay. The certificate (s) should also mention the
nature of duties performed/ experience obtained in the post(s) with duration(s). Experience
certificate should be relevant to the post.

c. The Following Original Documents, Certificates are to be produced along with self-attested
copies at the time of documents verification, including other items as specified on the
Institute website for candidates called for Interview, failing which the candidate would not be
allowed to appearin the Interview:

(i) All claimed education degree and certificates. Matriculation/ 10th Standard or equivalent
certificate indicating date of birth issued by Central/ State Board indicating date of Birth
in support of their claim of age. Where date of birth is not available in certificate/ mark
sheets, issued by concerned Educational Boards, School leaving certificate indicating
date of Birth will be considered.

(ii) NOC and experience Certificate(s) from the Head(s) of Organization(s) Department(s)
for the entire experience claimed, clearly mentioning the duration of employment (date,
month & year) indicating the basic pay and the consolidated pay. The certificate(s)
should also mention the nature of duties performed/ experience obtained in the
post(s) with duration(s).

(iii)Caste certificate by candidate seeking reservation under SC/ST/OBC, in the prescribed
proforma only from the competent authority indicating clearly the candidate’s Caste, the
Act/ Order as per Central Govt. List under which the Caste is recognized as SC/ ST/OBC.

(iv) Disability/Medical Certificate in the prescribed form issued by the competent medical
authorities in case of PwD candidate.

35, The decision of the Institute in all matters will be final. No correspondence/ interim inquiries
will be entertained from the candidates in connection with the process of shortlisting/
selection/ interview including reasons for not being called for interview. Any dispute with
regard to the selection/ recruitment process will be under the jurisdiction of the Hon’ble High
Court of Tripura.

NOTE-I - Original certificates along with one set of self-attested copies should be produced only
at the time of interview for verification, if shortlisted.

NOTE-II - Date of birth mentioned in the Application Form shall be considered final. No

TEaRralte[>
PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jiranta, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - reqistrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac.in, http://www. nita.ac.in.

 


--- Page 10 ---
 

 

 

National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 

 

subsequent request for change of date of birth will be considered at later stage.

NOTE-I - The period of experience rendered by a candidate on part time basis, daily wages,
visiting/ Guest faculty/ Purely on Contract Basis (Fixed Remuneration) will not be counted while
calculating the valid experience for short listing the candidates for interview.

NOTE-IV - Applicants who will be short listed for interview/ document verification will be
required to submit the hardcopy of duly filled in and online generated application form along
with annexure at the time of document verification.

cREehal
REGISTRAR °
NIT AGARTALA

PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail — reqistrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac.in, http://www.nita.ac.in.


--- Page 11 ---
 

US Weirrml CVs srRaa

National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 

Schedule “E” of the First Statutes of the NIT (Amendment Statutes, 2017)

“Schedule ‘E’

[See Statute 23 (5) (a)]
Qualification and other terms and conditions of appointment of Academic staff

Designation, Pay Band
and Academic Grade Pay

* Assistant Plofessor

(On contract)

Pay Band-3 with Grade Pay
of Rs.6000

* Assistant Professor

(On contract)

Pay Band-3 with Grade Pay
of Rs 7000

* Assistant Professor

Pay Band-3 with Grade Pay
of Rs.8000 with a
minimum pay of Rs.30000

Associate Professor

Pay Band-4 with Grade Pay
of Rs.9500 with a
minimum pay of Rs.42800

Professor

Pay Band-4 with Grade Pay
of Rs.10500 with minimum
pay of Rs.48000

PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,

Essential Requirements

one year post Ph.D. experience of
Teaching and Research in Institution of
repute or Industry

three years after Ph.D. or six years total
teaching and research experience in
reputed academic Institute or Research
and Development Labs or relevant
industry.

six years after Ph.D. of which at least
thee years at the level of Assistant
Professor with Academic Grade Pay of
Rs.8000;

Or

nine yeats total working experience, of
which three years should be after
Ph.D., with at least three years at the
level of Assistant Professor with
Academic Grade Pay of Rs.8000.

ten years after Ph.D. or thirteen years
total working experience, out of which
seven years should be after PhD. At
least three years at the level of
Associate professor with Academic
Grade Pay of Rs.9500 or four years at
the level of Associate Professor with
Academic Grade Pay of Rs.9000 or
combination of Rs.9000 and Rs.9500
or equivalent in an Institution of repute
or Research & Development lab or
relevant industry.

Cumulative
Essential Credit
Points

 

serait} ’

Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - registrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac.in, http://www.nita.ac.in.


--- Page 12 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, Indta, Pin -799046

 

Cumulative
Essential Requirements Essential
CreditPoints

Designation, Pay Essential
Band and Academic Qualification

Six years as Professor with
Academic Grade Pay of Rs.10000 or

Higher Administrat
Gaiesel auve Rs.10500 or a combination of

Rs.10000 and Rs.10500 in an
Rs.67000-79000 Institute of National Importance.

 

Note 1:

(I) Any change in the‘grade pay will be through open adveitisement and on recommendation of duly constituted
selection committee, except where specifically exempted in these rules.

(2) All new entrants shall have Ph.D. in the 1elevant or equivalent discipline and shall have first class in the
pieceding degrees

(3) For existing faculty members who completed their Ph D. along-with their normal teaching load of Institute or
quality improvement programme, the enrolment period of Ph.D. will be counted as teaching experience.

(4) Contribution to Institute Administration shall be recommended by concerned Head or Chairman and approved by
the Ditector. Contiibution to departmental Administration shall be recommended by concerned Head and
approved by the Director.

(5) For the departments which are not having any vacancy, movement in highe: Academic Grade Pay or cadre shall
be carried out as per specified selection process but it will be restiicted to only for serving faculty membes of the
respective depaitments.

(6) The permanent faculty members who have put in more than ten yeais’ expetience, but have not acquired Ph.D.
qualification as on the date of these notification shall be mapped into four-tier flexible system as one time
measure as per following norms:

(a) Permanent faculty with age fifty or above:

(1) The Assistant Professors with Academic Grade Pay of Rs.7000 shall be mapped at the level of
Assistant Professor with Academic Giade Pay of Rs.8000, provided they have at least 10 ciedit points
in their lifetime.

(it) The Assistant Professors with Academic Grade Pay of Rs.8000 shall be mapped at the level of
Associate Professor with Academic Grade Pay of Rs.9500, provided they have at least 25 ciedit points
in their lifetime.

(iii) The Associate Professors with Academic Giade Pay of Rs.9000 shall be mapped at the level of
Associate Professor with Academic Giade Pay of Rs.9500, piovided they have at least 25 ciedit pomts
in their lifetime

Provided, they have been found suitable through a Selection Committee duly constituted under the Statutes.

(b) Permanent faculty members less than fifty years of age shall be sponsored for Ph D. in any of the Indian
Institutes of Technology or National Institutes of Technology duly provided a facility to take study leave of three-
yeas from thei respective National Institute of Technology and on completion of the Ph.D . they shall compete
to get into the four-tier system as per the new recruitment rules.

(7) For faculty in the Department of Architecture, following shall be essential qualification without insisting on
credit point requirements at Assistant Professor level:
(i) | M.Arch. or M.Plan with one year professional experience Assistant Professor at Academic Grade Pay of
Rs. 6000;
(ii) M.Arch. or M.Plan with two years of professional expetience: Assistant Professor at Academic Grade
Pay of Rs. 7000,
(ui) For higher cadres the educational qualifications and ciedit point requiiement shall remain same as given in
the table for Engineering and Sciences.

Note 2: Credit Point System
The following shall be the credit point system:

 

PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - reqistrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac.in, http://www.nita.ac.in.


--- Page 13 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 

 

GUIDELINES FOR CALCULATION OF CREDIT POINTS

SN Activity Credit Points Guide lines Enclosure
MAX
MARKS

One externally | 8 credit points per| 1. Only external research
Sponsored R&D | project or 8 credit points | project funding agencies
Projects completed or| per patent as inventor | will be considered.
ongoing/Patent granted | (in case of more than | 2. In case of letter in the
(Non- exhaustible) one person in a project,| name of PI, documents
the Principal | specifying information of
Investigator gets 5 credit | Co-PI shall be submitted.
points and the rest to the | 3. Sanction Letter of R&D
divided equally among. ; Project from Government
Other members.) departments/ PSU will be
considered as on-going
project.

4, In case sanction letter
mentions multiple Pls
(N)/Patent granted to
multiple persons, each one
will get 8/N points.

5. The project needs to be
of research type. Grants
received under
TEQIP/COE/MODROBS/FIST
ete will not come under
this category.

6. Young Scientist awards
will be considered for
appointment through direct
recruitment only up to Pay
level 12

 

    
  
     
 

 
  
  
  
 
 
 

  
   
   

   
  
    
   
  
     

    
  
   
  
    
     
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
    
  
   
  
  

   
 

   
   
    
  
 

   
      
  
       
   

2 credit points @ Rs 5
lakhs of consultancy,
subject to maximum of
10 Credit Points.

1. Consultancy amount of 5
lakhs can be in a single
assignment or cumulative
amount of — multiple
assignments.

Consultancy Projects
(Non- exhaustible)

     

   

        
     
     

 

2. If there are ‘N’
coordinators the points
shall get divided by N for
each coordinator.

PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - reqistrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac.in, http://www. nita.ac.in.

 

 


--- Page 14 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 

Ph.D. Completed
(including submitted
cases)

(Non- exhaustible)

Journal = Papers in
SCI/Scopus (Paid
Journal not allowed)
(Non- exhaustible)

Conference Papers
indexed in SCI/
Scopus/Web of Science
Conference / any
internationally renowned
conference (After last
appointment)

HOD, Dean, Chief
Warden, Prof In-
Charge(T&P), Advisor
(Estate), CVO, PI
(Exam), TEQIP
(Coordinator)

Warden, Asst Warden,
Associate Dean,
Chairman/Convener
institute academic
committee, faculty In
Charge Computer
Center/IT Services/
Library/Admission/Stud
ent activities and other
institution activities

8 credit points per Ph.D
student (in case there are
more than one
supervisor, then the
Guide (1* Supervisor)
gets 5 credit points per
student and the rest to be
divided equally among
other supervisor.

4 points per paper First
author or Main
supervisor will get 2
point and rest will be
divided among others

1 credit points per paper
up to a maximum of 10
credit points. First
author or Main
Supervisor will get 0.6
and rest will be divided
among the rest.

2 points per semester up
to a max of 16 credits
points since the last
promotion

1 credit point per
semester up to a
maximum of 8 credits
points since the last
promotion.

If guide and co-guide are
not mentioned explicitly
then 8 points will be
divided equally amongst all
guides. It should be
supported by notification.

Any duty assigned by Head
of Institutions at par with
HoD/Dean etc. within the
Institute for minimum one
year shall be considered
(for example Registrar In
charge, Nodal officer,
HOD(GeM) prof. in charge
for the cell)

Any duty assigned by Head
of Institution at par with
Warden / Associate Dean
etc, within the Institute for
minimum one year shall be
considered. (For example,
CPIO, First year
coordinator, Chairman
Cell.

 

PO~ NIT Agartala, Banala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,

Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail ~ registrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac.in, http://www. nita.ac.in.


--- Page 15 ---
UsSla Weirrpl Vt srRaai
National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

 

Chairman and Convener
of different standing
committee and special
committee (ex officio
status will not be
considered). Faculty in
charges (each for one yr
duration) of different
units or equivalent
Departmental activities
identified by HODs like
lab in charge, or
department level
committee for a min
period of 1 yr.

Workshop/FDP/Short
term courses of min 05
working days duration
offered as coordinator or

convener
For conducting national
programs like GIAN etc.
as course coordinator
Program of two weeks
duration

Program of one week
duration

National/International
Conference organized as
Chairman/Secretary

0.5 credit point per
semesters up to a
maximum of 3 credits
points since the last
promotion.

0.5 credit point
semesters up to a
maximum up to a
maximum of 3 credits
points since the last
promotion.

per

2 credit points per
course up to a maximum
of 8 credit points since
the last promotion.

2 credit points per
course up to a maximum
of 4 credit points since
the last promotion

1 credit point per course
up to a maximum of 2
credit points since the
last promotion.

3 credit points per
program up a maximum
of 6 credits points since

Chairman / Convener of
various committees at
institute level i.e. special
cell, women cell,
grievance committee, store
purchase committee,
students’ grievances,
academic discipline and
vigilancecommittee, etc.
Any duty assigned by Head
of Department for
minimum one year shall be
considered i.e, Faculty
advisor (UG/PG), UG/PG
Coordinator, DC, Purchase,
Time Table Coordinator,
PhD coordinator, first year
subject coordinator, NBA,
NIRF, TEQIP, Academic
Audit, departmental
student society,
departmental gathering
coordinators, departmental
library in-charge, seminar
hall/smart class room in-
charge, Mentor
(Departmental) or any other
duty of similar nature
assigned by HoD for a
year.

In case of multiple
coordinators (N) , these
credits shall be divided by
N

In case of multiple
coordinators (N) , these
credits shall be divided by
N

1. In case of multiple
coordinators (N) _ ie.
Chairman/Secretary/Coordi

 

PO- NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,

Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - reqistrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nita.ac.in, http://www.nita.ac.in.


--- Page 16 ---
 

 
  
    

National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

  
   

 

the last promotion. nator/Convener, these
credits shall be divided by
N.

2. The Conference should
be conducted at NITA
Length of service over|2 Credit points per | The credit point shall be in
and above the relevant | semester with maximum | multiple of two No
minimum teaching | of 10 credit points since | fraction and odd numbers
experience required for a | the last promotion. are allowed.

given cadre
Establishment of New
Lab(s)

     
 
 
  
  
  
   

        
     
  
   
   
   
 

   
   
  

  
 
  
 

 
   
 

   
  

Max. 4 credits and this do
not include the basic labs
for core subjects and
facility developed as a part
of R&D projects.

(1) Lab should have facility
of conducting at least 5
experiments with
documentation. In case of
less experiment, _ point
based on pro-rata basis can
be assigned i.e. per
experiment 0.8. This
should be certified by HoD
with photograph.

In case of more
coordinators (N) points
shall be equally divided
amongst them.

Lab developed under
TEQIP and others funding
agency will come here.
ie. 12 credit (only Theory
hrs. without counting
credits for practical/tutorial
hrs.)Per year and average
shall be taken to calculate
the credit points.

4 credit points since the
last promotion.

        
 
    
 
   
   
 
      
 
       
 
    
 
   
   
   
 
      
    
    
  
   

     
 
 

     
  

   
 
   
 
 
 
 

1 credit point or credit
hrs. up to a maximum of
6 credit points since the
last promotion.

Theory Teaching of over
and above 6 credit hrs
course

  

   
   
 
  

 
     
  

   

0.5 credit point per
project to a maximum of
10 points since the last

promotion.
0.25 credit point or credit
project up to a maximum
of 4 credit points since the
last promotion

PG Dissertation Guided

    
 
   
 

  
 
   

    
 

UG Projects

  
   
   

PO- NIT Agartala, Barala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - reqistrar@nita.ac.in, recruitment@nuita.ac.in, http://www. nita.ac.in.

 


--- Page 17 ---
 

Text/Reference Books
Published on relevant
subjects from reputed

international publishers

Text/Reference Books
Published on relevant
subjects from reputed
national publishers or
book chapters in the
book published by
reputed international
publishers

Significant Outreach
Institute Activities

Fellow IEEE, FNA,
FNAE, FNASc (Non-
exhaustible)

6 credit points per book.

up to a maximum of 18
credit points since the
last promotion

2 credit point per unit
up to a maximum of 6
points since the last
promotion

1 credit point per
activity up toa
maximum of 4 points
since the last
promotion

10 credit points

National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Tripura, India, Pin -799046

1. The book shall be in
his/her own academic area
(Department).

2. In case of multiple
authors (N) the credit
points shall be divided by
N.

3. Thesis published in the
form of a book will not be
considered.

1. The book/chapters shall
be in his/her own academic
area (Department).

2. In case of multiple
authors (N) the credit
points shall be divided by
N.

1. This includes sustainable
social activities continued
for at least one year.i.e.
Rashtriya Avishkar
Abhiyan, Prayaas,Unnat
Bharat Abhiyan etc.

2. If there are more
conveners (N) points shall
get divided by N.

3. This also does not
include industrial visits.

D21
10

Placement percentage (Only for the placement cell officers/Faculty in-charge of Placement)

Above 85%,

75%-84%
(% to be based on total
number of — students
passing out and single
job offer)

4 credit point per year
up to a maximum of 20
points since the last
promotion

2 credit point per year
up to a maximum of 10
point since the last
promotion

 

PO- NIT Agartala, Barala, Jirania, TRIPURA (W)-799046, Phone (0381)-2546-630/ 2546-629,
Fax (0381) 2546-360/ 2548 512, E-mail - reqistrar@nita.ac.in, recruttment@nita.ac.in, http://www.nita.ac.in.

 

 


--- Page 18 ---
 

SE Deh BE SE LRA I aS A LR AS PM, PRR ALITY A Mn OM Me MAQT Re ope wegen ge

F.No.33 - 9/2011 - TS.IU
Government of India
Ministry of Human Resource Development
Department of Higher Education

wR LK A

Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi,
dated, the 16" April, 2019

To
The Directors
of all the National Institutes of Technology (NITs)
and Director, HEST, Shibpur.
Subject:- Implementation of Recruitment Rules for Faculty of NITs and
IIEST - issue of clarifications as per recommendations of the
Oversight Committee - regarding.
Sir \ Madam,

| am directed to refer to this Ministry’s Order of even number dated 15"
May, 2018 vide which an Oversight Committee was constituted under the
Chairmanship of Prof. Sivaji Chakravorti, Director, National Institute of
Technology, Calicut (Kerala) to look into further issues / anomalies, which are
not yet covered / addressed in the revised Recruitment Rules (RRs) notified for
Faculty on 24" July, 2017 and issued on 20" December, 2017 for Non-Faculty
staff of the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and Indian Institute of
Engineering Science and Technology (EST), Shibpur (West Bengal).

2. At the same ‘time, the Directors of all the NITs and IIEST, Shibpur were
requested to forward the left out anomalies / issues in the RRs to the Chairman
of the Oversight Committee. Accordingly, the Oversight Committee received
suggestions / representation from various NITs and JIEST, Shibpur. The
Oversight Committee has looked into the issues / anomalies, which are not yet
covered / addressed in the revised Recruitment Rules of Faculty and Non-
Faculty staff and has submitted its reports in respect of faculty of NITs and
NEST, Shibpur on 27" October, 2018.

3. The observations pointed out by this Ministry were further discussed in
the Oversight Committee meeting held on 19 January, 2019. The
recommendations submitted by the Oversight Committee on 27" October, 2018
and 19" January, 2019, respectively, have been examined in this Ministry. The
recommendations of the Oversight Committee are divided into two categories
viz. (i) clarifications on existifig RRs and (ii) amendments in RRs notified on 24"
July, 2017. With the approval of’ the competént' authority it has been decided

DOIVIVAVADLAR Pay ‘Argmaly RCASH Tier baller seer]
\K -


--- Page 19 ---
to issue clarifications, as per recommendations of the Oversight Committée, on
the following points in the first instance: -

5 Clarifications Comments of the
No sought by NITs/ | Oversight Committee Decision
* | Faculties of NITs Osc

1. | Clarification on | One-time measure | Accepted.
“One-time means completion of
measure” first round of

recruitment process for

respective faculty
positions after
amendment in Statutes

dated 24 July 2017

and subsequent

approval of the process
by the BoG_ of
respective Institutes.

[amended on

19.01.2019]

International / national

Post Doctoral

Fellowships offered by

National Agencies of

respective countries

will be considered.

Post Doctoral

Fellowships offered by

Institutions which are

in QS / THE World

Ranking upto 500 will

be considered,

“Experience as Post

Doctoral Fellow will be

considered for

appointment to the
post of _— Assistant

Professor (AGP 7000

and 8000)” [amended

. on 19.01.2019].

: 3. | Clarification on} Amendment proposed

 
         
           
       
       
   
    
   
 
       
 
 
       
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
      
      
 
    
      

 
 

Whether
experience as
Post-Doctoral
Fellow is to be
considered or
“not.

 

 

|
|

     

The points, which are

| Cumulative on. 19.01.2019 now non-exhaustible, in
| Credit Points the existing RRs (2017),
: e Credit Points | are as follows:-
| mentioned at
| ___St.No.4 of the Table

r
GHHUDIAVIOARR Pay Anomaly & CASH Tier Leltar.stocs) \A . Wye


--- Page 20 ---
Comments of the
Oversight Committee
(OSC) |

on Credit Point
System given in
Schedule E of the
Statutes 23 (5) (a)

Clarifications
sought by NITs /
Faculties of NITs

 

are now non-
exhaustible credit
points.

e Credit Points |
mentioned at
SL.No.5 of the Table
on Credit Point
System given in

Schedule E of the
Statutes 23 (5) (a)
are exhaustible
credit points, i.e.
after last
appointment.

The rest are
Exhaustible Credit
Points at every level of
direct recruitment.

|
|

Carry forward of
Credit Points.

  
  

 
  

    

For any movement
from one position to
other, if the
Exhaustible Credit
Points are more than
the minimum required

     
 
       
 
   

(MERDWRAVADUR Pay Anomaly ROASH Ter Latter doer}

| Decision

 
    

    
   

1.1 One external
Sponsored

R&D Projects
completed

or ongoing / °
Patent
granted

8 / project or 8
/ patent as
inventor {!n case
of more than
one person in a
Project, the
Principal
Investigator gets
5 credit points
and the rest to
the divided
equally among
other members)
2 Credit points
@ Rs.5 lakhs of
consultancy,
subject to
maximum of 10
Credit points

8 per Ph.D.
student. (In case
there are more
than one
supervisor, then
the Guide (1*
Supervisor} gets
5 credit points
per student and
the rest to be
divided equally
among other
supervisor(s
4 per paper
smce the last
promotion. First
author/Main
supermsor will
get 2 and rest
will be divided
among others.

10 credit points |

The rest Credit Points
mentioned in Schedule E |
are Exhaustible Credit |
Points at every level of:
direct recruitment.

it has been decided to}
accept the clarification
with following
illustration: -

     
   

   

   
   

  
 

    
 

?

     
     
    
 
  
   

     
 

   
 

.| Consultancy
projects

 

 
    
 
  
  
  
   
    
   

    
    

   
    

Ph.D.
completed
{including
thesis
submitted
cases)

  
    
 

     
  
    
     
    
    
   

 
   
 
 
 

   
 
    
   
 

1
4.{ One Journal
papers in SCI
i Scopus
(Paid

Joumals not
allowed)

     
   
 

   
   
   
  
 

  
  
    
   
    
    

  

{.| Fellow FNA,
FNAE, FASc,
FNASc

|
Assistant _—~Prof. _to|


--- Page 21 ---
  
   

  

 
    
   

Comments of the
Oversight Committee
(OSC
Credit Points for the
selected position, then
differential Credit
Points from the
Exhaustible Credit
Points shall be carried
forward to the
Exhaustible component
only.

“T Clarifications —
6 . sought by NITs /
_’__ Faculties of NITs

Decision

    
    
 

 
  

Associate Prof. Minimum
Required Credit Points: 50

    
        

i. For a candidate having
20 Non-exhaustible Credit
Points And 60 Exhaustible
Credit Points, carried
forward Credit Points will
be 20 + (60-50)= 30

ii. For a candidate having
30 Non-exhaustible Credit
Points and 40 Exhaustible
Points, carried forward
Credit Points will be 30 +
(40- 40)= 30. Credit Points
earned during the period
from the last date of
submission of application
and date of joining, which
was not considered in the
selection process, shall be
carried forward.

      
         
         
   
    

Illustration: .
Assistant Prof, to
Associate Prof.:
Minimum Required
Credit Points: 50

j. For a candidate
having 20 Non-
exhaustible Credit
Points and 60
Exhaustible Credit
Points, carried forward
Credit Points will be
20+ (60-50) =30

iti. For a candidate
, having 40 Non-
exhaustible Credit
Points and 40
Exhaustible Points,
carried forward Credit
Points will be 40+0=40.
As specified by the
respective University /
Institution. If not
specifically mentioned
by the University /
Institution, then 60%
marks or 6.5 CGPA,

    
       
     
     
     
         
       
        
    
       
     
  
 
 
  
 
 
   

 
 
 
 
 
  
    

   

Clarification on
First class.

The Ministry vide letter
dated 31.01.2018
clarified that “the new
entrant means a
candidate who is not
existing faculty of
concerned NIT.
Therefore, existing
faculty will not be
considered as new
entrant.”

     
 

      
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

        
     
     
     
         
     
 

New entrants are as
defined in MHRD letter
No. 33-9/2011-TS. Ili,
dated 31% January
2018. Faculty members

    
 

 
     
  

 
 

It has been decided to

.
TMHRORAVADARR Pay Anomaly & CASY Tier Lalter deca} vy

 

 

 


--- Page 22 ---
 

5 Clarifications
No sought by NITs /
* | Faculties of NITs

Clarification on
“Preceding
Degrees”

7. | Clarification
“Institution
repute”

IMARDWAVEOAAR Pay Aromaty &CASMATIer Lattat coca)

on
of

respective Institute.

Comments of the

Oversight Committee Decision
(OSC

appointed in regular| continue with the same
pay scale through duly] while agreeing to the
prescribed — selection | clarification on first class
processes will be! degree.
considered as existing
faculty in subsequent
selection in the

  
  
    

Preceding Degrees
mean Bachelors’
Degree onwards.
Experience (including | Accepted.
i

Accepted.

prior to
implementation of
NIRF) in the following
Institutions will be
considered:-

i. Fully funded Central
Educational Institutions

ii. IIMs and other
management
Institutions ranked by
NIRF upto 50 for any
two years;

tii, State Educational
Institutions funded by
respective State
Governments;

iv. Other Educational
institutions ranked by
NIRF upto 100 in
overall, Universities,
Engineering, upto 50
for Pharmacy and 10
for Architecture, for
any two years.

However, with regard
to recommendation on

yey


--- Page 23 ---
a oes Nee ot 6S an Ew yk Been fhe ME a nb ee Te
Pe Ye « ‘ peat OE, SO it Pa Ben 2

Clarifications Comments of the

sought by NITs / | Oversight Committee Decision
Faculties of NITs (OSC)

Institute of repute, the
BoGs of respective
Institute may take a
call on relaxing the
criteria, if needed,
with recorded
justification.
Clarification on | As per existing
“Book — chapter | provisions of Statutes.

weightage”
Carry forward of | Credit points earned
Credit Points for | during the period from
award of Ph.D. &! the last date of
Paper publication | submission of
in between date | application and date of
of eligibility & | joining, which was not
date of joining. considered in the
selection process, shall
_ be carried forward.

| 10. | Clarification on|ACoFAR will decide
“Industry of | criteria for respective
repute” Institutes.

No.

   
         
   
 
      
  
  

 
        

 
   
      
   

   
  
 

       
 
 
 

 
  

Accepted.

  
 

 

  
    
    
 
      
  

   

  

     

    

It has been decided that
the Board of respective
Institute may define the
criteria.

Accepted.

    
   

    
 

   
  

      
     
  
  
  
 
    
   
  

  

12. | Distribution of | As per existing
points for | provisions of Statutes.
i | patents. ;
' 43. | Consultancy Consultancy amount of
(Credit Point {5 lakhs can be in a
| distribution) single assignment or
can be in cumulative
amount of multiple
assignments.

  

As all the Departments in
an Institute doesn’t fetch
same amount of
consultancy, therefore, it
has been agreed to have
cumulative consultancy
amount of Rs.5 lakh in
multiple assignments.
Accepted.

     
  

  
       
  
   
   

   
   
     
  
      

       
 
   

      

Counting of | As per existing
Credit Points on | provisions of Statutes.
Conference paper
since last
promotion.

15.

IMHUDIRAVROWIA Pay Anomaly & CASY-Tler Letlarteca) VK
VA

    

Already taken care of | Accepted.

 

 


--- Page 24 ---
Clarifications Comments of the _ — |
N 0 sought by NITs / | Oversight Committee ae |
"| Faculties of NITs OSC

comments about | in Point No.5.
since “last
promotion”

16. | Clarification As per Schedule E of | Accepted.
regarding the statiite 23(5)(a) Note
term ‘promotion’ | 1: (1), any change in
used in RRs the AGP in 6 cPC /
Level in 7™ CPC, is
through direct
recruitment through
open advertisement.
Therefore, the term
‘ “promotion” used in
RRs / Guidelines /
MHRD communications
should be read asi
“Appointment through |
Direct Recruitment”.
May be replaced with: | Accepted.

  
 

17. | For grant of HAG
Scale to
Professors:

40% of sanctioned
post of Professors

 
 

40% of total no. of
Professors in position.

 
     

4. All the NITs and IIEST are advised to place the recommendations of the
Oversight Committee (as indicated in para 3 above) before the Board of
Governors for its adoption and ensure strict adherence of the instructions.

5. This issues with the approval of the competent authority in the Ministry.

Yours faithfully, .

by
[K. Rajan

Under Secretary to the Government of India
Tel: 23384159
Copy to:-

(i) The Chairperson, Board?of Governors of all the NITs and IIEST, Shibpur.

(ii) | PS to HRM / PS to MoS (SPS)-for kind information.

(iii) Webmaster, MNIT, Jaipur - with a request to upload the communication
on the website of the Council of NITSER.

(iv) Guard File.

IMHROWAVNDAAR, Pay Anomaly & CASH-Ther Letter toca]


--- Page 25 ---
Annexure-—A
Details of academic qualifications
Copy of certificates Certificate copy
attached Certificate
(Strikeout attached
whichever not with
required)

     

1. Notification for date of defence of
PhD Degree or Provisional PhD
Degree certificate.

[a, | PAD Degree Certificate | Yes/No | AZ—«d SSS
[3._| PG Degree Certificate | Yes/No | A3_-| SS
[4 PG Final Mark sheet or Grade Card | Yes/No | Ad—<sP
[5._[ __ UG Degree Certificate | Yes/No | AS

Card

[7 [10 Marie sheet_ [Yes/No | AT_~P
[8 [- 1042 Certificate [Yes/No [| A8_—«dS
[~9.[ ‘10 Mark sheet Yes/No | A9_—=sP SS
[To [- 10 Certificate [Yes/No] Alo.

Note : Candidate should attach self-attested copy of above certificates after this content
sheet of Annexure-A and assigned page numbers like Al-1, A1-2..... A6-1 etc,

Signature of Candidate


--- Page 26 ---
Annexure — B
Details of Experience in Teaching

Description A Certificate
attached with
Annexure B

 

Note : Candidate should attach self-attested copy of above certificates duly issued by
competent authority after this content sheet of Annexure-B and assigned page numbers like
Bi-1, B1-2..... B6-1 ete.

Signature of Candidate

 


--- Page 27 ---
Annexure — C
Details of Experience in Industry

SL. Description A Certificate
No. attached with
Annexure B

er
ef

 

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above certificates duly issued by
competent authority after this content sheet of Annexure-B and assigned page numbers like
Ci-1, Ci-2..... C6-1 ete.

Signature of Candidate


--- Page 28 ---
Credit points claimed
Registration Id: Post Applied Fort ........ccecesecsseeseeseees

Activity Details Credit
Points
oo One external Sponsored R & D Project completed or ongoing /patent 4
granted
Consultancy projects saa | ee |

03 Ph.D. completed (including thesis submitted cases). ———

T= Co-
One Journal papers in SCI / Scopus (Paid Journals not allowed). aun | acm |_|

1 st Cc 0-
Auth Auth

 
  
 

         
   
       
      
    
   
 
 
    
     
 
 
  
  

SQ

 

        
 
    

One Conference paper indexed in SCI/ Scopus / Web of science
Conference / any internationally renowned conference.

  

Head of the Department, Dean, Chief Warden, Professor In-charge
(Training and Placement), Advisor (Estate),Chief vigilance Officer, PI
(Exam), TEQIP (Coordinator).
Warden, Assistant Wardens, Associate Dean, Chairman or Convener
Institute Academic Committees, Faculty in charge Computer Center or
Information and Technology Services of Library or Admission or

student activities and other Institutional Activities.
Chairman and Convener of different standing committee and special
committee (Ex officio status will not be considered). Faculty in-charges
(Each for one year dur.) of different Units or

Departmental Activities identified by Head of the Department like lab

in-charges, or department level committee for a minimum period of one

year.

int mng in dann oaedessorinar come [DL
min 05 working days duration offered as coordinator or convener.

For conducting national programs like Global Initiative of Academic oa

Networks etc. as course coordinator 1 )Program of two weeks duration
2) Program of one week duration.

ee
Secretary.

! Length of service over and above the relevant minimum teaching

3 experience required for a even cadre. ff

Establishment of New Lab(s). a ee ee
Theory Teaching of over and above 6 credit hrs. course. PF

Post Graduate Dissertation guided. PT
Under Graduate Projects pT

   
    
    
   

   
     
   
 
   

  

   
 
    

  


--- Page 29 ---
    
 

Text or Reference Books published on relevant subjects from reputed
international publishers.

| Text or reference book published on relevant subjects from reputed
19

   

national publishers or book chapters in the books published by reputed
international publishers.

Significant outreach Institute out activities. PY
PT

     

Fellow IEEE, FNA, FNAE, FNASc.
a | Placement percentage (only for the placement cell officers / for Faculty

 

 
    

22 in-charge of Placement) 1)Above 85% 2) 75%-84% (% to be based
on total number of students passing out and single job offer)

    
   
   

Total Credit points claimed

 


--- Page 30 ---
Annexure —D
Index for Credit Point Details

Annex Activity Details Page
ure No.
No.

Di One external Sponsored R & D Project completed or ongoing /patent granted ||
Consultancy projects ||
Ph.D. completed (including thesis submitted cases). |

4 One Journal papers in SCI / Scopus (Paid Journals not allowed). |

One Conference paper indexed in SCI/ Scopus / Web of science Conference / any

DS internationally renowned conference.

[Ds | Head of the Department, Dean, Chief Warden, Professor In-charge (Training and
Placement), Advisor (Estate),Chief vigilance Officer, PI (Exam), TEQIP (Coordinator).
Warden, Assistant Wardens, Associate Dean, Chairman or Convener Institute Academic
Committees, Faculty in charge Computer Center or Information and Technology Services of
Library or Admission or student activities and other Institutional Activities,
Chairman and Convener of different standing committee and special committee (Ex officio
status will not be considered). Faculty in-charges (Each for one year dur.) of different Units
or

Workshop or Faculty Development Program or short term courses of min 05 working days
duration offered as coordinator or convener.

For conducting national programs like Global Initiative of Academic Networks etc. as
course coordinator 1 )Program of two weeks duration 2) Program of one week duration.

National or International conference organized as Chairman or Secretary.

Length of service over and above the relevant minimum teaching experience required for a

Departmental Activities identified by Head of the Department like lab in-charges, or
department level committee for a minimum period of one year.

even cadre

Establishment of New Lab(s).
Theory Teaching of over and above 6 credit hrs. course

D16 Post Graduate Dissertation guided

Under Graduate Projects |

D18 Text or Reference Books published on relevant subjects from reputed international
publishers.
D19

Text or reference book published on relevant subjects from reputed national publishers or
book chapters in the books published by reputed international publishers.

Significant outreach Institute out activities. |
Fellow IEEE, FNA, FNAE, FNASc. | |

Placement percentage (only for the placement cell officers / for Faculty in-charge of
D22 Placement) 1)Above 85% 2) 75%-84% (% to be based on total number of students passing

out and single job offer)

 


--- Page 31 ---
Note;

1. Candidate should attach self-attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

2. Guidelines for calculation of credit points are available on the website.

Signature of Candidate

 


--- Page 32 ---
Annexure-D1

D1. Externally sponsored Research and Development projects completed or ongoing / Patent

        

      
 
   

granted:
SP Title Sponsored Agency Amount in Status No. of Co-
From To Date Lakhs investigat
Date

Role :

 

     

Patent Name. Reg/Ref. No. Awarded Date Awarded Status No. of Co-
Organisation inventors

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of

Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate


--- Page 33 ---
Annexure-D2

D2. Consultancy projects:

No of
Co-
Investiga

Consultancy
amount in From Date Status

 

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate


--- Page 34 ---
   

Annexure-D3

D3. Ph.D. completed (Completed including thesis submitted cases):

Title of the Thesis | 2™Stiute | NameofScholar | Thesis Date Status No. Of Co-
Name Supervisor

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

10


--- Page 35 ---
 

Annexure-D4

D4: Paper Publications in SCI/Scopus indexed Journals (Paid Journals not allowed).
DATE OF LAST PROMOTION:
Title of the

Res. Place Volume No of
J curnal Res. Year Status Role Auth
ame

      

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

Annexure-D5

D5: Paper Publications in Conferences (SCI/SCOPUS/ Web of Science/ Internationally
renowned conference):

 

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate


--- Page 36 ---
Annexure-D6

D6: Administrative Responsibilities Entrusted: (HOD, Dean, Chief Warden, Professor in-charge
of T & P, Advisor (Estate), CVO, PI (Exam), TEQIP (Coordinator) (Since the last promotion):

| —*‘Duration — ss | —*‘Duration — ss
Position held Orsanization veer To Work No. of

      
 

 

Role:

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

12


--- Page 37 ---
Annexure-D7

D7: Warden, Assistant warden, Associate Dean, Chairman/Convener Institute Academic
Committees, In-charge Computer centre/IT Services/library/Admission/student activities and
other Institutional activities) (Since the last promotion)

Work | No.of

Position held Organization T

 

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

13


--- Page 38 ---
Annexure-D8

D8: Chairman and Convener of different standing committee and special committees (ex officio
status will not be considered). Faculty in charges (each for one year duration) of different units
or equivalent.

wat
Position held Organization aranon T Work No. of

        
 

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

14


--- Page 39 ---
Annexure-D9

D9: Departmental activities identified by HoDs like lab in charge, or department level committee
for a min. period of | year.

Position held Orvanization | _Daratlon___| Work No. of

        
 

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

15


--- Page 40 ---
Annexure-D10

D10. Workshop/FDP/Short term courses of min. 05 working days duration offered as coordinator
or convener.

 

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

16


--- Page 41 ---
Annexure-D11

D11. For conducting National Programs like GIAN etc. as course coordinator.

Duration Organized At No. of
From Week

i) Two Week duration

 

ii) One week Duration

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Program Type Title Organized At No. of
From Week

     
  
 

Role :

 

Signature of Candidate

17


--- Page 42 ---
Annexure-D12

D12. National / International Conference organized as Chairman / Secretary

Duration Level
From Date To date eve

      
 
    

     

Title

Organized At

 
 

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

 
   

Signature of Candidate

18


--- Page 43 ---
Annexure-D13

D13: Length of service over and above the relevant minimum teaching experience required for a

given cadre.
Length of Service :

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

19


--- Page 44 ---
Annexure-D14

D14: Establishment of new Labs.(Since the last promotion):
Name of Lab No. of Experiments Year

    

     

        
   

  

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

 

Signature of Candidate

20


--- Page 45 ---
Annexure-D15

D15: Theory teaching of over and above 6 credit hrs course.

Odd Sem | Odd Sem ou
Subl Sub2 Sub3

       
  
 

No. of
Hours
Even Sem

   
     

     
 

Even Sem | Even Sem | Even Sem
Subl Sub2 Sub3

     

Note ; Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number,

Signature of Candidate

21


--- Page 46 ---
Annexure-D16
D16: PG Dissertation Guided

Title of Dissertation Student Name

     

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

22


--- Page 47 ---
Annexure-D17

D17: UG Projects guided (Since the last promotion)

Title of the Project Year of Submission

 

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

23


--- Page 48 ---
Annexure-D18

D18:Text/Reference Books Published on relevant subjects from reputed international publishers

 

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

24


--- Page 49 ---
Annexure-D19

D19: Text/Reference book published from reputed national publishers or book chapters in the
books published by reputed international publishers (Since the last promotion):

Type of Publisher :

 

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

25


--- Page 50 ---
Annexure-D20

D20: Significant Outreach Institute Activities

Name of Activity

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

    
   

Signature of Candidate

26


--- Page 51 ---
Annexure-D2i1

D21:Fellow of IEEE, FNA, FNAE, FNASc

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

   

  
  

  
 

Signature of Candidate

27


--- Page 52 ---
Annexure-D22

D22. Placement % (Only for the placement cell officers/Faculty in-charge of placement).

Placement Percentage

   
 

    

Academic Year

 

No. of Students Placed

 

Note : Candidate should attach self attested copy of above details after this content sheet of
Sub Annexure and assigned the page numbers with prefix Annexure number.

Signature of Candidate

28


--- Page 53 ---
Annexure — E

NO OBJECTION CERTIFICATE TO BE FURNISHED BY THE CANDIDATE WHOIS
ALREADY IN EMPLOYMENT REGULAR/TEMPORARY BASIS. (For internal
candidate No objection certificate is not required)

Certified that Dr.(Mr/Ms.) Son/Daughter of Shri
Designation is a
permanent/temporary/adhoc employee of these department/institutions since

. The Department/Institution/organization has no objection if he/she
is appointed in National Institute of Technology, Agartala against the posts advertised by the

NIT, Agartala vide advertisement No. ......

SIGNATURE WITH SEAL

Place: OF THE DEPARMENT/INSTITUTION/ ORGANISATION

Dated:

29


--- Page 54 ---
Annexure —F

Any Govt. identity proof
(Election I-Card/ UID Aadhar Card/ PAN etc.)

30


--- Page 55 ---
Annexure—G
Check List

Sr. No. Document Description Yes/No/Not Page Number of
Applicable Number Pages
| Completed online summary report (Hard ane
Copy) of Signed Application Form with
pasted photograph
ee

— Teaching Experiences Annexure B Yes |

Experience in Industries/Research: as
Annexure C

| 5. | Summary Credit Point Calculation Po

Credit Point Calculation Supporting
Documents (Annexure D)

| 7. | Caste/Category/ EWS Certificate

PWD Certificate = Not
el plicable

NOC from Present Employer
(Annexure E)

10. | Govt. identity proof (Election I-Card/
UID Aadhar Card/ PAN etc.)
(Annexure-F)
| 11. | Check ListItself(Annexure-G) | Yes |

Total Numbers of Page

 

Signature of Candidate

31


--- Page 56 ---
 

”)

%

”
