
--- Page 1 ---
  

tfaegi sa tle ets - eb

ji
Hit a
Che Gazette of India

EX TRAQEIK AR Y
TH iL—ee 3 — Fae ii]
PAST El —Sasctiia 3—8 ib ect len, Ci]

Tiina Fo uae
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
m u| wf forat, weechnet, seer aa, soosvterme 3, 19041

Ain. Z43} Bea CE LE, TEST AIL, 2, WA a kT


--- Page 2 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3{i)]

MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
(Department of Higher Education)
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, lhe 23rd April, 2008

G.5.R. 260(E). — In exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (1) afsection 26 of
the National Institulas of Technology Act, 2007, (29 of 2007) the Central
Government, with the priorapproval of the Viedor, heraby frames the following Firet
‘Silatutes forall! ational Institutes of Tachnology, namely -

1. SHORTTITLE, EXTENTAND COMMENCEMENT

(1) These Statutes may be called Thea First Statutes of tha National Institutes of
Tachnalagy.

(2) Theyshall apply toall National InstiulesofTachnology.
(3) They shall come inte force on the dala of their publication in tha Offical Gazette.

2. DEFINITIONS
1. In these First Stalutes, unless the conlextolherwiee requires,
(a) "Act" means the National InstitulasofTechnology Act, 2007;
(b) “Authorities”, “Officers” and "Faculty Members” in relation to an Institute

mean, respectively, lhe authorities, officers and faculty mambers of the
Institute.

(¢) "Building and Works Commillae” means the Building and Works
‘Commiltes of the Institute constituted under First Statute No 12.

(a) “Centre” in relation to an Institute means an academic unit of the Institute
engaged in academic activities (like leaching, reasearch, alc.) ganerally of
an inter-disciplinary natura;

(8) “Deparment” in relation to an Instiutea means an academic unit of tha
Institute angaged in academic activiles (like teaching, research, etc)

(1)


--- Page 3 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART lI-SEC.3(7]

ih

(a)

th)

ti)
i)

generally relating to 4 particular discipline or area.

“Finance Committee’ means the Finance Committee of the Institute
‘constituled under First Statute No. 10;

“Head of a Deparment or Centre”, by whatever name called, means the
pereon appointed io haad tha Deparment orCeantre, as the case may be,
under First Statute No. 20;

“Programme means an academic programme of the Institute;
“rules” maans the rules mada under Chaplerllloftha Ad,
“Schedule” means Schedule annexed lo these Statules.

2. Words and expreassions.used herein and notdefined butdefined in the Act, shall
have the meanings respectively assigned to tham in the Act.

AUTHORITIES

The following shall be the authorities ofthe Instilute. Namely:-

i)
(ii)

ihe Board of Governoras constituted under Section 11 of thaAct:
ihe Senate as constituted under section 14 oftha Ad:

{it} tha Finance Commillae. as constitulad under Firet Statute 10; and
tiv) the Building and Works Committee as consfiuted under First Silatute

(1)

(2)

(3)
(4)

(5)

No. 12

BOARD OF GOVERNOR SAND MEETINGS THEREOF

Tha bodies antiled ib nominate or eled representatives of tha Board shall
be inviled by the Registrar to do so wilhin a period not exceeding aight
weeks from the date on which such invilalionsare issued byhim.

‘Casual vacancies.on the Board shallbe filled up by following lhe procedure
spechied under sub slatue (1).

The Board shall ordinarily meet four times during 4 cal andar year.

Meetings of the Board shall be convened by tha Chairperson either on his
own motion or al the request atthe Dirador or on a requisition signed by
nat less than four members of the Board.

‘Six members shall form a quorum fora meeting of lhe Board:

(2)


--- Page 4 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART lI-SEC. 3/7]

provided that if a meeting is adjourned for want of quorum, i shall ba
haldon tha same day in tha next week al tha same time and place or
on such other day time and place, as the Chairperson may delermina,
and if al such a meeting, a quorum is nol present within half-arhour
from the scheduled time for holding a meeting, tha members present
shall form the quorum.
All questions considered at lhe meetings ofthe Board shall ba decided bya
majority of thea voles of thea members present including the Chairperson
and if the voles be equally divided, the Chairperson shall have 4 casting
vate.

The Chairperson, ifprasent shall presida over avery meeting of the Board:

Provided that in tha absence of tha Chairperson, tha members
present shall elect a member fam amongst lhemselves fo preside at
the meating.

(6

v

(8) Awritten notice of every meeting shall be sent by the Registrar to every
member al last fiflaan days bafore the date of ha meeting mentioning
therein the place, date and time of ha meeting:

Provided thatthe Chairperson may call a special mealing ofthe Board
alshon nolice to consider urgentigsues.

(a

The notice may be delivered ailher by hand or sent by regisiared post or
Email or Fax, at the address Of each’ memberas recorded in the office of
tha Board and if so sent shall ba daamed to ba duly dalivered al the time at
which notice would be delivered In the ordinary course of past.
(10) Agenda shall be circulated by the Registrar to all members al least tan
daysbefore thameeting.
(11) Notices of motions for inclusion of any item on the agenda must reach the
Regtrar alleastona week before tha meeting:
Provided that the Chairparson may permil inclusion of any ilam for
which due notice hasinol been raceved.
(12) The ruling of tha Chairperson with regard to all questions of procedure
shall ba final

(13) Tha minutes of tha proceedings of a meeting of tha Board shall ba drawn
up by the Registrarand circulated to all members of the Board present in
India and the same along with any amendment suggesiad shall ba placed

(3)


--- Page 5 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(i)]

before tha Board in its next meeting for confirmation and after the minutes
are confirmed and signed bythe Chairperson, they shall ba recordedin the
minuila book.

(14) The minute book shall be kept apen for inspection of tha members of the
Board and the Council atalltimes during office hours.

(15) If aimeamber ofthe Board fails to attend three conseculive mealings without
laaveof absence fram the Board, ha shall caase to be a member of he
Board.

(16) Nomatter concerned wilh finance shall be placed before the Board unless
lhe same has been considered bythe Finance Commiltes.

(17) Mo matter which should be first considered by the Building and Works
Commiltes shall be placed befora tha Board’ unless the same has bean
considered by the Building and works Committee aflar obtaining the
administrative approval of the Board.

5. POWERS OF THEBOARD
Inaddition to the powers provided under sub-section (1) of section 13 of the Act
ihe Board shall ba empowered:
(i) do abolish, ra-designale or change the nomenclature of any post in the
instiute;
(i) to make, modify or cancel the statutes with the approval of the visitor from
time to time:
Provided that the naw Statute, additions or amendments of existing
Statulas shall be applicable only after the assent of the visitor;
and

{it} to make, modify and cancel all or any ordinances on racaommaendaton of
the Finance Commillee or Senate of the linstilute subject to the conditian
that making, modification and cancellation shall not be in contravention of
the Ad and (or) Stalutes.

6. AUTHENTICATION OF ORDERS OF THE BOARD
All orders and decisions of lhe Board shall be authenticaled by the signature of the

Diraclor or Re getrar or any peréon-authorised by lhe Board in this bahall.

(4)


--- Page 6 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC. 37]

T. SENATE
(1) The Senate shall meet as offen as necessary but ordinarily not less than
four times during a calendar year.

(2) Meetings of the Senate shallbe convened by the Chairmanof the Senate
eitheroan he own motion or ona requisition signed by nol less than one fifth
oftha membersofthe Senate.

(3) Requisidion meeting shall bea special meeting to discuss only those lames

of agenda for which requisition is gvenand shall necessarily be chaired by

the Diraclor and the requisiion meeting shall be convened by the

(Chairman ofthe Senate on conveniantdate and lime.

‘One third of the total number of members of the Senate shall form a

quorum fora meeting ofthe senala.

The Director shall preside over avery meeting of the Senate
Provided thatin absence of lhe Director, Deputy Director shall preside
and in the absence of both the Director and the Deputy Director, the
senior most professor pregent shall preside al lhe meating.

Awrillan notice of every meeting together wilh lhe aganda shall ba

crculalad by tha Registrar to tha members of the Senate at least 3 week

before the meeting:
Provided that the Chairman of the Senala may permil inclusion of any
iam forwhich due nolice hasnolbean given.

Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-statute (6), lhe Diracdormay call an

emergency meeting of the Senate at shorn notice to consider urgent

Special issues.

The ruling of the Chairman of the Senate with regard to all questions of

procedure shall be final.

(4

(5

(8

(7

iB

ig

The minutes ofthe proceedings ofa meeting of the Senate shall bedrawn
up by tha Registrar in consultation with Dean Academics and circulated ta
all tha members of senate presentin India:

Provided that any such minutes shall not be circulated @ the Senate
considers such circulation prejudicial to the inlarests of the Instiute orthe
Governmentof india.

(10) The minutes, along wilh amendments, ifany, suggested shall be placed for

(5)


--- Page 7 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART lI-SEC.3(ii]

5.

‘confirmation at tha next meeting of the Senate and after the minutes ara
confirmed and signed by the Chainman of the Senate, thay shall ba
recorded in a minula book which shallbe kept open for inspection of the
mambearsoftha Senate, tha Board and the Councilatall times during offica
hours.

POWERS OF THE SENATE
Subjectto the prowsionsofthe Act, the Senale shallhave the power ta:

ti)

(ii)

(ii)

{iv

_

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

frame and revise curricula and syllabi for the courses of studies for tha
various Deparment and Cantres;

make arrangement for the conduct of examinations; appainiment of
examiners, moderators, tabulators and other matters relating to the
examinations; .

declare tha results of tha examinations or to appoint Committees or
‘Officers to da $0 and to make recommendations to the - Board regarding
‘confarment or grant of degrees, diplomas and olher academic distinclians.
vor tithes;

appoint Advisory Committees or Expert Commillaes or both for the
Deparment: or Gentras of the institute io make recommendations on
academic matters conneclead wih the working of the Departments or
(Canines;

appoint Cammitteas fram amongst tha members af the Senate. other
ieachers of the Institula and experts from outeide to adviee on such
specficand important academic matters as may be referred lo any such
‘Commi itlae by tha Senate;

consider the recommendations of tha Adviory Commilless allached to
various Departments or Centres and that of Expan and other Cammilteas.
and lake such action (including the making of recommendations to the
Board | as warranted byeach casa;

make pariodical review of the activilies of tha Daparniments or Centres and
lake appropriate action (including tha making of racommendatons ta tha
Board |;

supervise the working ofthe Libraryofthe Instituls;

(6)


--- Page 8 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART lI-SEC.3{7)]

10.

(viljpromole research and academic development or activily within the
Institula and seek report: on such research or 2cademic development or
actvily fromthe persons engaged therein;

(i) provide forthe inspection of the class rooms, Laboratories, Library andthe
Residential Hostels;

(x) plan co-curricular activities of lhe students of the Institute;

(xi) award stipends, scholarships, medals and prizes and makes other awards
ifaccordance wilh such conditions as maybe allached lo the awards;

(xii) make recommendations to the Board wilh regard fo the creation or
restructuring of Dapariments or Programmes or Cantres and he abolition
ofexisiing Depanments or centres thereat;

(xilmake recommendations to lhe Board to dissaminala knowledge through
distance learning mode fo various parts of the State or country or abroad,
and

(xiviinvita up to two student representatives during discussion of general
nature notinvalving policy o~ disciplinary matters in the Senate meetings.

CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE TO EXERCISE POWERS INEMERGENCY

lf, in the opinion of tha Chairman of thea Senate, any amengency has arisen
which requires immediate action, ha may fake such action as ha deems
necessary and shall rapor the same for approval to tha Senale in its next
meeting.

FINANCE COMMITTEE

(1) There shall ba a Finance Committee for each Institute consisting of the
following mambers, namely.

(i) the Chairperson Boand of Governors, as-officie Chairman;
(i) the Director, ax-officia mamber;
(im) Joint Secretary dealing with National Institutes of Technology or his

nominee and Financial Advisor (Human Resource Develapment) or
his Nominee members;

(iv) two persons nominated by the Board fram amongst ils members; and

(7)


--- Page 9 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [FART lI-SEC.3(i)]

(v) the Registrar, ex-officio, Mamber-Secralary:

Provided thal in addifion fb the above, the Chairman may, in
consultation with the Director, co-opt a memiber as and when found
necessary.

(2) The Finance Commiltlee shall meat ordinarily four times in a year
preferably before lhe meeting of the Board of Governors.

(3) Three members of the Finance Commiltee shall form a quorum for a
meeting ofthe Finance Commiltes.

(4) Tha Chairman, shall preside over tha meetings of the Finance Commillae
and inhisabsenca, the Director shall preside over tha meetings.

(5) The provisions in these First Stalutes regarding notices of the meating,
Inclusion of items in the agenda and confirmation of ha minutes applicable
{fo tha meetings of the Board shall, so far as practicable maybe, followed in
connection with tha meetings of the Finance Cammillae.

(6) Acopy of tha minuiles of avery meealing of tha Finance Commiltes shall bea
placed before tha Board.

(7) All financial proposals shall be placed before tha Finance Commiltes prior
{o being placed before the Board for consideration and approval.

11. POWERS OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE
Thea Finance Commitee shall have power to-

{i} @xamine and scrulinize the annual budget of the Institula prepared by the
Diraclrand make recommendations tothe Board; and

(i) give its views and make it recommendations on any financial queston
affecting the Institute to the Board ailher on tha inifialive of tha Board orof
tha Director, oron its own mation

12. BUILDINGANDWORKS COMMITTEE
(1) Thera shall be a Building and Works Commillae for each of the Institute,
consisting of fallowing members, namely -
(i) the Director, ax-officia Chairman;

{i} oné member nominated by the Central Government not below the

(8)


--- Page 10 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3{i)]

13.

(iil)
tiv)
{vy}
{vi}

(2

rankof Director orDepuly Secretary

one mamber nominated by tha Board of Governors

Registrar, ax-officie, Mamber Secretary

Daan, planning and developmentor similar posiion- Member; and

one experteach fram Civil and Electrical Engineering Wing of Cantral
or Stale Governmentor any autonomous body of raputa —Mamiber.

The Building and Works Committee shall meet as often as necessary but

ordinarily not! ess than four times a year.

(3) Three members shall form a quorum for a meeting of he Building and
Works Committe.

(4

The provisions in these Statutes regarding notice of meeting, inclusion of

lames in the agenda and confirmation of the minutes applicable to the
meealing of tha Board shall, as far as practicable may be followed in
connection with meatings ofthe Building and Works Commillee also.

(5

A copy of the minutes of every meeting of the Building and Works

Committee shall ba placed before the Board.

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE BUILDING AND WORKS
COMMITTEE

(1) The Building and Works Commiltes shall,

(i)

(il)

(iil)

(iv

(v)

under the directions of tha Board shall carry on construction of all
major works, aflar tha nacessary admintraive approval and
expenditure sanction fram the Board;

have the power to give the necessary administrative approval and
expenditure sanchon for minor works and works peraining to repair
and maintenance wilin the approved budgetary provision of the
Institute:

cause to prepare estimates of cost of buildings and other capilal
works, minorworks, rapairs, mainianance and the like:

be responsible for making lechnical scrutiny of the design, estimates
and specifications of tha material as maybe considered necessary

be responsible forenii¢iment of suilable contractors and acceptance
of tenders and shall have the power to give directions for

(9)


--- Page 11 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(i]

14.

15.

depanmental works where necessary;
(vi) have the power to settle rates not covered by lander and settle daims
and disputes with contractors:

(2) Hin thé opinion of the Chairman of the Building and Works Committea, any
emergency has arisen which requires immediate action to be taken, he
shall take such action and report the same to the Building and Works
‘Commiltes and the Board al their next meeting.

(3) The Building and Works Commitles shall also peaniorm such function and
exercise such powers as maybe entrusted by tha Board fram time to time.

POWERS OF THE CHAIRPERSON, BOARDOF GOVERNORS

In addition to tha powers provided in the Act, tha Chainpearcon of the Board of

‘(Governors shallhave the following powers, namely-

(i) he shall have the power to fix, on the recommendations of the Selection
‘Committe, the initial! pay of an incumbent at a stage higher than the
minimum of the ecale inrespect of posts to which the appointments canbe
made by tha Board under the provisions oftheAct

(i) heshall have the power to sand members of the staff exceptthe Director of
the Institute for raining or fora course of instruction. outside India subject
to such tanms and conditions as maybe laid down by tha Board from time to
time. Incidentally, the vied abroad by the Diracdor shall be approved by the
‘Chainman. National Institutes of Technology Council;

(a) he shall execute the contract of service between the Institute and the
Director or Deputy Director on behalf of tha Central Government. but he
shall notbe personally liable of anyhing under such contract; and

{iv

In amargent cases tha Chairperson may exercise tha powers of the Board
and inform the Board of the action taken by him for ronfirmation and
ralification.

TRAVELLING ALLOWANCES OF MEMBERS OF THE AUTHORITIES OF
INSTITUTE

Mambers of tha Board and other authorities of the Institute and members of lhe
Committees constituled underthe Act or thease Statutes orappainted by the Board

(10)


--- Page 12 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3{i)]

and other authorities shall be entitled to traveling allowance, daily allowance and
silting fee for attending the meetings of the authorities and their Committees as laid
down bythe Board from time to time.

16. DEPARTMENTS AND CENTRES

17.

The Institula shall be organized into such number of Departments and Centres
fo ba known by such names as the Board may within the budgelary provision
approve fram time to time, on tha recommendations of tha Senate.

THE DIRECTORAND HIS POWERS
(1) The Director of the Institute shall be appointed by the Visor on contract

basis on tha recommendation ofa Selection Committee consttulad by him
consisting of atleastfive members induding the Chairman whoare experts
in tha field of technical education with experiance al national and
international level.

(2) The Director shall be appoiniad for a period of five yaars and shall ba

governed by the terms and conditions of the Contract of Service eniared
into babwaen the Institube and the Director in form specified in Schedule-A.

(3) Subjacd to the budgeal provisions made for the specific purpose, the

Director shall have the power to incur expenditure in accordance wih the
procedure as may be laid down in the ordinances.

(4) The Director shall have the power to appropriate funds with respect to

different items constituting the recurring budget up to a limit speciied for
the Head of Deparment in the Central Gavernmentforaach iam:
Provided thal such appropriation shall not involve any increase inthe
budgetand any liability in future years:
Provided further thal avery such appropriation shall as soon as
possible, be reporled to the Board.

(5) The Director shall have the power lo write off irrecoverable losses up to a

limit of tan thousand rupees and of irrecoverable value of store ilams lost
orrenderad unserviceable, due to normal wearand taarorobsolete up ib a
limit of bhwanty five thousand rupees subject io such stipulations as may be
mada bythe Board fram time to lime.

(11)


--- Page 13 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART lI-SBC.3 (i)

(6) The Director shall have the power to donate absolela equipment or store
ams, a6 identified by a Commillae constiluted for this purpose by the
Director, to any educational instiution in the vicinily of the Institute up to
such limits as may be decided by the Board from ime toime.

(7) The Director, where he is the appointing authority, shall have the powerto
fi, on the recommendations of the Selection Commitee, thea initial pay of
an incumbent ata stage higher than the minimum, of the scale, but rot
involving mora that five increment, in respect of posts to which
appointment fan be made by him under the powers vesied in him by the
provision oftheActor these statutes,

(8) The Director shall have the power to amploy Teaching Supporting Staff in
iha Laboratories, Technicians or Technical Instructors and Skilled
Workmen, paid framcontingencies from ime to iime, fornotmore thanone
year on such remuneration as maybe decided by tha Board.

(8) Tha Director shall have the powerbo send members ofthe staff for training
orte altand course of instruction inside India subject lo such terms and
conditions as may be specified by the ordinances.

(10) The Director shall have the power fo sanction tamporary allocation of any
building for any purpose other than that for which it was
consiruclad.

(77) If for any raason tha Registrar is famporarily absent for a period nat
@xceading ona manth; tha Director may lake qverorassign to any facully
member or member of staff of the Institute, any of the functions of the
Ragistarashe deans fit:

Provided that ifatany’ time the temporary absence; of the Registrar
exceeds one month, tha Board may, @ it thinks fil authorize the
Director to lake over or assign the function of ihe Registrar, fora
period exceeding ane monih.

(72) All contracts farand on behalf of ihe Instiute except the one between the
Institula and the Director shall when authorised by 4 resolution of the
Board passed in that behalf be in writing and be expressed io be made in
the name of the Institule and every such contract shall be executed on
behalf of tha Institue by the Director but the Director shall not be
pereonally liable inresped of anylhing under such contract.

(12)


--- Page 14 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART |I-SEC.3{i)]

18.

(13)The Director may, during his absence from headquarlar:, specifically
authorise in writing the Deputy Director or in his absence, one of tha Deans
or tha Senior most Professor present fo sanclon advances for travelling
allowance, contingencies and medical traatment of the staff and sign and
counlar-sign bills on his behalf.

(14) The Director may, al his discretion constitute such committees, as ha may
consider appropriate for smooth functioning of the Institute.

(75)ln the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the
Chairperson by reason of his death, resignation or olherwiee or in the
aventof the Chainperson being unable to discharge his functions owing to
absence, illness or any other cause, tile Director may discharge the
functions assigned to the Chairperson undersecton 16 of thaAct.

(16)The Diraclor may, with the approval of the Board delegate any of he
powers, authorities or rasponsibiliiies vested in him by virtue of the Act and
Statutes to one or more members of Academic or Administrative Staff af
the Institute.

THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR

(1) The appoinimentofthe Depuly Director shall be made by the Visitor an the
racommendaton of the Selection Committes constituted by thea Central
‘Government with prior approval of the Vielor consisting of al least five
members including the Chainman who are experts in the field of technical
education wih experiance al National and International level.

(2

The appointment shall be fora period of three years inilially which may be
exiended by two limesfor one year each on recommendation of tha Board.
The Deputy Director shall ba governed by the terms and condifians of the
Contact of Service entered into between the Institule and the Deputy
Director iin the form specified in Scheadule-B.

The Deputy Director shall have all the powers of the Director during the
vacancy inthe post of Diraclorof the Institute.

The Depuly Diraclor shall assist the Director in academic and
administaive work and in maintaining amon with other institutions of

higher learning and research, and also wilh industrial undanakings and
olheramployers.

(3

(4

(5

(13)


--- Page 15 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(i]

18. DEANS

(1)
(2)

(3)
4)

{5}

The Institula shall establish not more than si Deanships.

Thea Diraclor shall appoint tha Deans with intimation to the Chairperson,
Board of Governors.

The Dean shallhald his postfor two years extendable by one more year

‘Only Professors or Associate Professors shall be eligible for bacaming
Deans.

Broad functions of Deans are enumerated in the Schedule 'C’.

20. HEAD OFTHE DEPARTMENT ORC ENTRE

(1)

(2)

(3)

4)

(5)

Each Deparment and Centre of the Institute shall be placed in charge of a
Head who shall be selected by the Dinactor. from amongst the Professors
and Associate Professors of thatDeparimentor Centra:
Provided that if a Dapariment or Cantra has no Professor or Associate
Professor, the Director may appoint an Aesistant Professor of that
Department or Canta to haad the Daparimentor Canta.
The Head of a Department or Centre shall hold his post for a term of two
years.
Provided thataflarthe expiry of his term of office, he shall coniinuete
hold office tillthe appointment of his successor:
/ Provided further that no parson shal! haad a Depanment or Cantra
continuously fora period exceeding threes yearsunless he IS specally
appointed alleastfora second tearm.
The Diraclor may himeelf take tamporary charge of a Depanme.fit or
place it under the charge of tha Depuly Director or a Professor from
another Department fora period nolexceeding si months.
The Head of Deparment shall be responsible forthe entire working of the
Deparment subjectto tha ganeral control and supervision of the Diractar.
The Head of Department shall be duty bound to sea that tha decisions of
ihe authoriies of the Institula and of Director are faithfully carried out. He
shall perform such other dules as may be assigned to him by the Director
or Senate.

(14)


--- Page 16 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3( 1]

(6) Whenappaintment bb the post of Haad of Deparment or Centra bacaomes
due, the Director shal! a=cerlain the willingness of the parsons eligible ta
be appointed as Head, forbeing so appointed, and shall generally select a
pereon by rofation from among eligible and willing parsons.

(7) Whenever il is proposed fo deviate from the principle of rolation, such
appainiment shall ba made only with the prior approval ofthe Chairperson,
Board of Govemors and for reasons to be recorded in writing and shall alsa
berepored to tha Senale and the Board, alang wilh reasons for deviation,
in their nextmeatings.

21, REGISTRAR
(1) The Regetrar shall be appointed for a fixed farm of nol exceeding five
years on deputation orcontract basis.

(2) The Regietrar shall ad as Secretary of tha Board, Senala and such other
‘Commiltees ta which ha may be required by the Statules toad as such.

22. CLASSIFICATION OF THEMEMBERS OF THE STAFF

(1) Exceptin the case of employees paid from contingencies, tha mam bers af
staffofthe Insttule shallbe classified as under :-

Academic staff :- Director, Dapuly Director Professor, Associate
Professor, Assistant Professor, Lecturer, Professor Training and
Placement, and such other acadamic posts as may be daqdad by the
Board from time to time;

Technical staff :- System Manager. System Analyst, Programmer,
Librarian, Workshop Superintendent, Assistant Workshop
Superintandent, Foraman, Technician, Instructor, Laboratory
Assistant Mechanic, Overseer, Technical Assislant, Draftsman, and
suchother technical posts as may be decided by the Board fram time
folime; and

Administrative. and others staff :- Registrar, Dapuly Regitrar and
Ageistant Registrar, Accounts Officer, Audit Officer, Estala Officer,
Executive Engineer. Assistant and Junior Engineer, Medical Officer,
Medical Assistant, Horticultural AssistanlOfficar, Office
Superintandant, Securily Officer, Storas Officer, Store Keaper, Office

(15)


--- Page 17 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART lI-SEC.3(i]

(2)

Assistants, Data Entry Operators and such other Administrative and
olherstaffas maybe decided by tha Board from fima to ime.

Post: classified as Acadamicstafshallbe vacation postsonly.

23. APPOINTMENTS

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

The posts al the Institute shall be filled by advertisement on all India basis:
Provided that the ratio batwean the Direct Recruiimentand Promotion
posts for poets other than thatof the Director or tha Deputy Director
shall be as per the recruimentrules.

The reservation of posts shall ba in accordance with the rulesofthe Cantral

‘Government.

For thea purposes of appointments, the rules applicable to of the Cantral

‘(Governmenteamployees shallapply.

The Selection Cammittees, forfilling posts under the Institute (other than

ihe posts on contract basis) by adverisament or by promotion fam

amongst tha mamibers of staff of the insfiula, shall ba constituled in such
manner as laid down by Ministry of Human Resource Development,

Department of Higher and Secondary Education, Government of India or

Board from time to time by ordinances.

Selection Committees for filling up of posts under the Institute (otherthan

on contract basi) by advertisement or by promotion fram amongst the

mambers of staff of the Instilule shall ba consiiluted in the following
manner namely

(a) the Selection Commiltes for recruimentofAcadeamic Staff (excluding
the Director and the Deputy Director), or for promoton shall be as

under:
(1) Diractoror Deputy Director - Chainman
(2) Visitor's Nominee - Member
(3) two nominee of the Board one being an expert,

but othar than a mamberaftha Board -Mamber
(4) one expertnomines of Senate from

outside the institula - Member

(16)


--- Page 18 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3{i)]

(5) Head of Deparment concerned - Member
(for olher than the post of Professar)

(b) The Selection Commiltea forTachnical posts shall ba as follows:

(1) Directorar Deputy Director - Chairman
(2) one Expertfromoutside the Institute - member
(3) Nominee of MinistryofHuman Resource

Development - Member
(4) Concerned Head of Department - ember
(5) Regietrar - Member

(c) The Selection Commiltea forAdmintrative and Ministerial Staff shall

ba asunder:
(1) Directorar Deputy Director - Chairman
(2) One Expertfrom outeide the Institula - ember
(3) Nominee of MinistryofHuman Resource

Development - Member
(4) Regietrar - Member

{d) The Selection Commiltea for Senior Adminetraliva and other
comparable pests carrying pay scale of Lecturer and above shall be

asunder :-
(1) Directorar Deputy Director - Chairman
(2) one Expertfromoutside the Institute - Member
(3) Nominee of MinistryofHuman Resource

Development - ember
(4) Nominee of Board - ember
(5) Regietrar - Member

(6) The Registrar shall ba substituted by another nomines of the Board incase
the Selection is made for the Registrar or the equivalent post

(17)


--- Page 19 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(i]

(7) In tha absence of the Deputy Director, tha Director may nominate any
mamiber of the staff of tha Institute to be tha member of the Selecton
Committees in his place.

(8) Where a post is to be filled on contact basis or by invitation, the Board may
constitute such Adhoc Selection Commilles, as circumstances of each
case mayrequire.

(9) Where a post is to be filled by promotion from amongst thea members of the
Institula or tamporarily for a period nat exceeding twelve manths, the
procedure forlha same shallbe as spaciied by ordinances.

(10) Notwithstanding anything contained in these Statulas, lhe Board shall
have tha power to make appointments of parsons having specal skill or
knowledge to suilthe emergent need of tha dapanment(s) orcentra(s).

(71) the post is to be filled by advertisement the Regtrar shall advertise the
terms and conditions of the post and the screening committee for the
purpose of shor listing tha eligible and most desirable candidates and
shall screen all applications received within the date specified in the
advertisement

(12) Al the time of interview, the Selection Gommillee shall examine credentials
of all caindidalas who have been called for the inlendew, inlarniew thea
sligible candidates and recommend the appainimant of the most suitable
candidate to the competent authority for approval.

(13) The recommendations of the Selection Commiltes shall remain valid for a
period of one year from the dale of interview and if for any reason the
recommendations ara not approved by the competent authority or
appointment orders not i@sued after the approval of recommendations
within the said period of one year, the recommendations shall lapse and
frash adverlsementshall ba sued.

(4)Mo act or proceeding of any Seledion Commiltea shall be called in
question onthe ground meraly of tha absence of any mamberoarmembers
ofthe Selection Cammittea.

(15) Unless olherwise provided for under thease Steatules, the Selection
Committee constituted for he purpose of making recommendatons for
appointment toa post shall continue to exercise its functions in relation to
that post fll lhe appoiniment is made against that past.

(18)


--- Page 20 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC. 37]

(176) All appointments made at the Institule shall be reported to the Board al its
neximeeating.

(17 )The applications of tha amployees eligible for promotion under Assured
Carser Progression (ACP) shall ba considered by the Deparnmental
Promotion Committees before any promotion or upgradation &

recommended.

(18) The Departmental Promotion Commiltea shall be as follows:
1. Direcoror Deputy Director - Chairman
2. Concerned Head ofDepanment - Member
3. HeadofDepanment fom other Department - Member
4. Registrar - Member

24. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE OF PERMANENT

EMPLOYEES

Permanent employees of the Institute shall ba governed by the following terms and
condilions:

(0) Subjed to the provisions of the Act and the Statutes, all appointments to
posts under the Institute shall ba mada on probation fora period of ona
year after which period the appointee, if confirmed, shall continue to hold
his office subjed to the provisions of the Act andthe Statules, fill tha and of
the month in which he attains the prescribed maximum age for teaching
posts, fortechnical non-teaching and ministerial and administrative
posts asthe case maybe:

Provided that the appointing authorily shall have the power to axtand
ihe period of probation of any amployee of the Institule for such
periods as may ilmay deem fil

(i) The age of superannuation shall be as specified for various classes and
calegores ofthe employees of the institula by the Central Government.

(i) The employees of the Instilute shall be entitled to allowances in addition to
pay, a6 admissible to Central Government Employees.

(iv) The amployees of the Inetitula shall be anitled to reimbursement of
medical expenses incurred on thamsealves and their familiesas per Cantral
Cril Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 144.

(19)


--- Page 21 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(i)]

(v) The amployees of the Inetitule shall be governed by thea Cantral Civil
Sarvicas (Conduct) Rules, 1964. .

(vi) The employees appointed on or aflar 01.01.2004 shall be governed by the
new pension scheme announced by the Gavernmentoaf India.

(vil) The application of the employees of the Insitute shall be forwarded for
amployment outeide the Institute only three times in a yearin accordance
with lhe procedure specified in Schedule—-D.

(vil) The ample yees of the Institute willbe aniiled lo Laave Travel! Concession
(LTC) as admissible to Central Government Employees.

(i) Overtime and night allowance shall be paid to the eligible employee of the
Insfilute as is admissible lo the Cantral GavernmentEmployees.

25. CODE OF CONDUCT FORPERMANENTEMPLOYEES

The code of conduct foreamployees shall be made by each Institute in consultation
with the Central Government.

26. SUSPENSION, PENALITIES, DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS
(1) The Director may place a member of the staff appointed at the Institute
under suspension :-
(i) Where a disciplinary proceeding against him is contemplated or &
panding;
or
(i) Where 4 case against him in respect of any criminal offance is under
investigation, inquiry or trial:
Provided thal where a member of lhe staff ts detained in custody,
whether on a criminal charge or olhenvise, for a period
exceeding fony-aight hours, such member of tha staff shall be
deemed to have been placed by an order of thea competent
authorily under suspension with effect fam the date on which he
wasso delainad.
(2) During the period of suspension, tha member ofthe staff shall ba antiledte
the following payment, namely :-

(a) a subsistence allowance at an amount equal to the Laave Salary

(20)


--- Page 22 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3{i)]

(3

(4)

(5)

{b)

{c)

vocation.

which the slaff memberwould have drawn had he been on leave on
half pay and Dearness Allowance, f admissible on the basis of such
laave salary :

(i)

(il)

Provided that where tha period of suspension exceeds six
manths, the Subsistence Allowance shall be as follows:

the amount of subsistence allowance may be increased by a
suiable amount not exceeding filly parcant of the subsistence
allowance admissible during the period of tha first six months, if,
in the opinion of the Competent Authorily the period of
suspension has been prolonged for reasons to be recorded in
writing, notdirectly attributable to tha employes concerned;

the amount of subsistence allowance may be reduced by a
suitable amount, not exceeding filly parcent of the subsistence
allowance admissible during the period of tha first sm manths, if,
in tha opinion of tha Competent Authorily, the period of
suspension has been prolonged due io reasons, to be recorded
in. writing, directly altributable to lhe employee.

The rala of dearness allowance will ba based on the increased or as
the case may be tha decraased amount of subsislance allowance
admissible under substaute2.

Any other compensatory allowance admissible fram time to time on
the basis of pay of which the staff member was Jin receipt of on the
date of suspension subjed to the fulfillment of other conditions laid
down forthe draw! ofsuch allowances.

No payment shall be made unless the slaff mamber furnisheda certificate
that he is not engaged in any other employment, business, profession or

The Board of Governors may, fd is of the opinion, thal the ciroumetances
of the case do not warrant the suspension of the mamber of the staff,
revoke such order.

The following penalties maybe imposed on any amployee:-

ti)

censure,

(i) withholding of increment or pay;

(i) wilhholding of promotion;

(21)


--- Page 23 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART lI-SEC.3(i]

ie

r

ig

}

}

(iv) recovery fram his pay of the whole or pan of any pecuniary loss
caused tothe Institute by negligence or braach of ardars;

(vw) reducion to lower grade or post or lo a lower time-scale of pay, or lo a
lower stage in a time-scale for a period of thras years without
cumulative effect and not adversely affecting his pansion (where aver
applicable);

(vi) compulsory retirement;

(vil) reameval from service which shall not be a disqualification for future
@mploymentunder the Inetituls;

(vii) dig=miseal from service, which shall ordinarily be a disqualification far
futura am ployment under the Institute;

No Order imposing on any mamber of the staff any of the penalties
speciied al (v) to (vil) above shall be passed by any authorily subordinate
jo that by which he was appointed and except aflaran enquiry has bean
held and tha member ofthe slaff has been gven reasonable opportunity of
showing cause against he action proposed to be taken in this regan.

No onder imposing on any member of the staff any of the penalties
speciied al(i) to(v) above shall be passed by anyauthorily subordinate to
that by which he was appointed and unless the member of the staff
concerned has been given anopportunily to make @ representation to the
appointing authority:
Provided thal the provisions of sub-stalute (5) and (6) shall nol apply
to tha following :-

(8) where an employes isdismissed or removed or reduced inrank on the
ground of conduct which has led to his conviction on 4 criminal
charge;

(b) where the aulhorilyampowered todiemiss or remove the personorte
raduce him in rank is satisfied thatforsoame reason lo be recorded by
that authority in writing, itis not raasonably practicable to give to that
person such oppanunily; or

(c) where the Visilor i satisfied that in the interest of lhe security of the
State, itis notexpedieantte give to hat person such opportunity.

If, in respect ofsuch person as aforesaid, any question arises whether il is

raagonably practicable to give to an opportunily referred to under clause

(22)


--- Page 24 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3{7)]

(b), the decision thereon of the authority ampowered to dismiss or remove
such pereon orto reduce him in rank, as the case may be, shall ba, final.

(3) Amemiber of the staff aggrieved by any order imposing panally passed by
the Director against him shall be entitled to prefer an appeal to Board of
‘Governors against the order and there shall beno furtherappeal fromthe
decision of tha Board.

(170 )A.member of the staff aggrieved byany order passed by tha Board inflicting
a penally on him shall be entitled fo prefer anappaal to the Visitor against
such order.

(11) No appeal shall be entenained by the Board of Governors or the Viedar, as
the case may be, unless il is made wilhin a period of thres months fram the
date on which member of the staffaggrieved by such order receives a copy
ofthe order appealed against:

Provided that the appellate authorily may entertain the appeal aflar
ihe expiry of the said period, if il is satisfied that he appellant has
sufficient cause fornotsubmitting the appealin time.

(12)The authority to whom an appeal against an order imposing penalty lias
may, of its awn mation or otherwise call forthe records of the case fram the
Director or the Board, asthe case may be, review any order passed in such
acase and passsuchordersasiltdeamefit.

(13) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Statuls, the Vieilormay, onhi
own mation or othenvise after calling for the records of tha case, review
any orderwhich is made under this Statute, and
(a) confirm, modify or set aside the order;

(b) impose any penally or sel aside, reduce, confirm or anhance the
penalty imposed by the ardar;

(¢) remit the case to the authority which made the order orto any other
aulhoriy directing such further action or anquiry as he considers
proper in the circumstances of the case, or

(qd) pass such other orders as ha deame fit

Provided thatan order imposing orenhancing a penalty shall nat
be passed unless the person concerned has been given an
opportunity of making any rapraseniation which he may wish to
make against such enhanced panalty.

(23)


--- Page 25 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(7]

(14) (a) When a member of the staff of the Institute whohas been diamised,
ramoved or suspended is reinstated, tha authorily competentto order
the rainslalamentshallconsider and make a specific arder:-

(i) nagarding the pay and allowances to be paid to tha mamberof the
Slaff of the Institute for the period of his absence from duly; and

(i) whether or nat the said period shall be traaled as a period spent
ondutly;

(b) where such compelent authority holds that the member of the staff of
the Institulé hasbeen fully exonerated or in case of suspension, thatit
was wholly unjustified, tha mamber of the staff of the Institute shall ba
given the full pay to which he would have been entitled had he not
been dismissed, removed or suspended, as tha case may ba,
together wilh any allowance of which he was in receipt prior toa he
dismissal, ram ovalor suspension;

(c) In other cases, the member of the staff of the Insttula shall be given
such proportion of such pay and allowances as the competent
authorily mayspecty:

Provided that tha payment of allowances under clause (b) or
Clause (¢) shall be subject fo all other conditions under which
such allowances are admissible;

(4) In cases falling under clause (b) he period of. absence fram duty shall
belraaiad as a period spantondulyforall purposes;

(8) Incases falling undarclause (c) the period ofabseance from duly shall
not ba traated as a period spent on duly unless such competent
aulhorily specifically directs thatit shall be so treated for any specified
purpose.

27. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICES OF TEMPORARY
EMPLOYEES

(1) The services ofa tamporary employees shall be liable to termination al any
fime by notice of ane month in writing given either by the employee to the
appointing authority, or by the appointing authority to the employee.

(2) The other tanms and conditions of service of such employes shallbe such
as may be specitied by the appointing aulhorily in his letlerof appointment.

(24)


--- Page 26 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(i)]

28. APPOINTMENTS ON CONTRACT

(1)

(2)

(3

Notwithstanding anything coniained in these Statutes, thea Board with the
prior approval of the Visitor may in special circumstances appaint an
@minent parson on contra ctfara period nat exceeding 5 years.

Subjed to the provisions of the Act, the Board may appoint any parson or
contract in the prescribed scales of pay and on terms and conditions
applicable to tha relevant postfora period nolexceading 3 years.

For making such appointments, tha Chairperson, Board of Governors shall
constitute such adhoc Selection Committee, as the circumstances of each
case may requina:
Provided that such constitution of commiltes shall ba raparted to tha
Board for confirmation.

29. PROVIDENTFUND AND PENSION SCHEMES

Employees of the institute appointed prior to 1.1 2004 will ba governed by Central
(Civil Services (Pansion) Rules, 1972 and Cantral provident Fund (Cantral Sanices)
Rules, 1960 and the Employees appointed on oraflar 1 12004 willbe governed by
Haw Pension Schame of Central Government.

30. RESIGNATION

Natwithstanding anylhing contained in the foregoing provisions of these first
Statutes, amember ofthe elaff of Instilute may resign:

(i)

(il)

if ha & a permanent amployee only aflar giving thres months notice in
wwriling tohis appointing authority, or by paying thrae months salary in lieu
thereat; and
ifhe & nota permanent employee, only after giving one month's notice in
wriling to the appointing aulhorily or by paying one month's salary in lieu
thereat:
Provided that such resignation shall lake effect only on the dale on
which the resignation isaccepted by the appointing authority.

31. RETIREMENT

(1)

Al any time after an amployee has complelead twenty years qualifying

(25)


--- Page 27 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(i]

service, hamay, bygiving notice, ofnot lees than thrae months, inwriling to

ihe appainiing authorily, retire from service 4s per the farms and conditions

laid down by the Central Government, from fime to time, for its own
amployees.

(2) The appointing authority has tha night to retire the amployee before
superannuation as premature ratirament in accordance with the provision
of Central Civil Services (Retirement) Rules 1964.

(3) An employee can retire form service on account of any bodily or mental
infirmity that permanently incapaciates him from service subjad to the
following conditions, namely -

(i) The amployes shall submit his application to tha Registrar through
proper channel and produce a medical cerificala fram medical
authorilyas may be specified by the ordinances;

(i) ifthe medical authority grants filness certificate for a lower post, the
amployes, if wiling may be appointed on such post only if available;
and

(0) The medical raport should precede or coincide with the dale of
ra tirament

a2. ADVANCES
The permanant employees of the Insttule shall be having facility of drawing
advances for various purposes as admissible to Central GovernmentEmployees.

33. DEPUTATION

Deputation is permissible for appointment (lemporary transfer) in public interest
outeide National Institute of Technology to othar National Institute of Technology,
Cantal Government Stala Government, Universities or Autonomous Bodies
including Public Sector undertaking and subject to the terms and condilons
specified in the racrummeant rules.

4. RESIDENTIALAC COMMODATION FOREMPLOYEES

(1) Every employee of the instilule may be alloted an unfurnished house
within tha campus of the Institute for residential use only, if available, in
which he shall be required to reside, subject to such conditions as may be

(26)


--- Page 28 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(i)]

(2

(3

(4)

laid down by tha HouseAlliotment Rules of the Institute.

An amployee of the Institute who has bean alloted house for residential
usa, shall ba charged licanse fea al lharala as fed by he Board fromtime
to time.

In addition to the license fea, water, electricity and charges for any other
service rendered shall be recovered fram an employee on actual basis or
alsuch ratesas may be datermined by the Board fromtime b ima.

The Board may, allot furnished or unfurnished accommodation wilhout
lavying any licanse faa or levying such fea al concessional rates lo any

calegory of staff, fit considers necessary to do so in the interest of the
Institula.

35. LEAVE AND VACATION RULES

The eave forall he amployees of the Institula shall be governed by the Central
Cril Services(Leave|Rules 1972.

36. SCHOLARSHIPS, FELLOWSHIPS, MEDALS AND PREES

The Board may, on the recommendation of the Senate instiule such scholarships,
fallowships, medals and primes as ilimay considernecessary.

37. FEES
The Institute shall charge the following fees, namely :-

(i)

(il)

The Wition and the hostel fee shall comprise of two pans (a) fees
determined by the Nationa! Institutes of Techno logy Council which shall be
the Gammon for all National Institutes of Tachnalogy and (b) faas which will
be determined by the concerned Boards of Governors which shall be
applicable to the concerned inslitula.

The Caution Money shall be refundable to student, scholars and fellows at
the time of finally leaving the Insiiluls, aflar deduction of relevant dues, if
any and where no claim for a refund is recenved within two yaars of finally
leaving the Instilute, tha Caution Money shall be credited into the Student
Welfare Fund.

(a) The faa concession and scholarships 4s may be da termined by the Cantral

(27)


--- Page 29 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(i]

‘Government from time fo fime shall be applicable to all Natonal Institute of
Technology.

38. STUDENTS" HOSTELSANDHALLS

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

Every Institute shall ba a residential institution and all students and
research scholar shall regide in the hostels and halls of residence built by
ihe Institutes for the purpose.

Provided that in exceptional cases, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, the Director may permil a studentor scholar to reside with he
parent or guardian, bul where any such permission is accorded to a
Student oarscholar such student or scholar, as the case may be, shall
be liable for tha payment of such seat rent as he would have been
lable for lhe paymentofseatrenthad he resided in the hostel.

Every resident in the hoslels and halls shall conform to rules laid down by

tha Institute far tha purpose.

For each hostel or hall of rasidance there shall ba a Warden and such

num bear of Assistant Wardens and other staffas may be determined by the

Board from fime to time.

The members of the Academic Staff shall be appointed by the Director as

Warden and AesietantWardan.

Wardens and Assistant Wardens shall be entitled to rent free unfurnished

quanears corresponding to the type of quarters to which they ara normally

entitled.

The Board shall laydown rulesfor lhe managementof the hostels and halls
ofresideance.

33. CONFERMENT OF HONORARY DEGREES
The Institute may confer honorary degrees for a few exceptional and outstanding
pereons for their illustrious contribution in their respective fields:

Provided that all proposals for the confarment of honorary degrees shall be
made bythe Senals and shallbe approved by lhe Board

[No. F. 22-5/2008-TS. Ill (PL)
N. K. SINHA, JL. Sacy.

(28)


--- Page 30 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3{7)]

THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF TECHNOLOGY
SCHEDULE ‘A'
(See Statute 17(2)]

"WHEREAS in terms of Section 17 (1) of the National Instilute of Technology Act,
2007 (hereinafter called tha Act) and Statula 17(2) {in case of NIT, j
(hereinafter called Statutes), tha Viedor has been pleased to approve the
appointment of the appainiae as the Director of the Institule on contract for five
years and the appointee has accepted such appointment upon the farms and
conditions hereinaflar appearing. NOW THESE PRESENTS WITNESSETH and
the parties hereto respectively agree as follows :-

[1] This agreement of service shall be deemed .to have been entered into
subject at all imes to the provisions of tha Act, and Statutes covering the
Institulas as in forca from time to time as applicable to permanent
continmed employees.

[2] The appaintes shall be on service under the agreement fora periodoffive
years wilh effect fram date of joining tha post. Provided that ifthe appointea
on condusion of tha period of servica mantioned above is balow 65 years
of age, his service shall continue till the 30th June of the year in whichthe
appointesa concludes tha said period of service or till ha aflains lhe age of
65 whichever is earlier

[3] The appainiae shall be the Principal academic and Execulive Officer ofthe
Institula and the Instiute as the whole time Director of the Institute with
powerand duties provided in the said Act and Statutes.

[4] The appoiniae shall davote his whole lime to the service of tha Institula and
will ba subject to tha Conduct Rules and other provisions of the said Act
and the Statules. Any information obtained by appointee during or in
‘connection with his sarvica and work upon which he is engaged shall ba
traated as secret and confidential and appointee shall ba deemed in all
respects to be subject to the Indian Officials Secrets Act, 1923, as
amended fram time to time.

[5] During the period of his sarvica except in respect of any period of
suspension and also of any period of leave wilhoul pay, the appointee shall
be entitled subject to the Indian Income Tax to an inilial pay of Rs.

(29)


--- Page 31 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(1]

6]

[i]

B]

2]

in the scale of Ris. that if any time the appointee proceads an
depulation out of India, his pay and allowances during the period his
depulation will be such as may be decided by the Board of Governors in
addition, tha appoiniae shall draw allowances like Deamness Allowance,
City Compensatory Allowance etc, as may be admissible from time to time
as per rules ofthe Institute.

During his service under these present the appointees shall subscribe to
ihe Contributory Provident Fund-cunHoratuily of the Institute according ta
ihe provigions made in the Statulas and subject to such modifications in
ihese provisions as may be made from time to time and shall also be
antited to the contribution of the Institula as admissible to the permanent
confirmed employees as per tha Slatutes. In tha event of the appainke
being employer of any other National Institute of Technology and enjoying
ihe benefits either under Contributory Provident Fund -cum- Gratuity
Scheme or General Provident Fund-cum-Pension-cum-Gratuily Schama,
he shall join the corresponding Scheme of the Institute with transfer of this
accumulation as admissible under the Slalutes. In case the appoinie &
ihe amployes of the Instiute he shall continue to be governed -by
Contributory Provident Fund-cum-Gratuity Scheme or General Provident
Fundchcum-Pension-cum-Gratuity Scheme as immediately priar to this
contract appointment and shall ba antiled to benefits of ha schame forthe
period of his senvice under this. contractiike other permanent amployees of
ihe insfiulesas per the Statules.

Notwithstanding anylhing hereinbefore contained, the appoiniee shall
unless otherwise decided by tha Institula be antilled fo receive tha whale or
in pan as may be determined by the Institula the benefits of any
improvements in’ the revision of scale of pay and in retirement benefits that
may be affected by the Institute subject to the dale of these presents in lhe
farms and condilions.of tha service of mamibars of the branch of Institute,
service fo which he may for the time being belong, the decision of the
Instilute in raspeactofsuch improvamentin the tarmsand conditions of thar
service of appointee shall operate so as to modify to that extant the
provisions ofthese presents.

The appoiniae shall be entitled ib leave as admissible to permanant non
vacation amployeeasofthe Institula under the Statulas.

The appointes shall be entitled to furnished free of licanse fee offica cum

(30)


--- Page 32 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(i)]

residential accommodation in the campus of the Institute as may be
sanctioned by the Board of Governors ofthe Institula.

(10) The appointes shall be aligible for privilage in relaion bb medical
allandance and traaimentas provided for in the Statutes.

[11] The appointes shall be paid travelling expenses forjaining the Institute as
admissible to an officer of tha Central Government of equivalent rank
under tha Transfer Travelling Allowances Rules ofthe Central Government
deeming the appointment of the appoinige as on transfer in the public
interest.

If the appoiniee is required to travel in he interestoflnstitule work, he shall
be antilled to travelling allowance and the scale provided for in the T A
Rules ofthe ingtitute in force from time to lime. Similarly the appointee shall
be entitled to leave travel concession for visiling his hometown as perthe
Rules of tha Inetitula.

[12] Any amount recenwed by the appointee fram books and articles published
by him at his cost shall ba left to him as an encouragement for continuing
his workin thatline.He would also be allowed todo consullancy andretain
benefits ofthe same as per rules laid down bythe Board fram time to time.

[13] The service of appaintes may during the period of contract, be larminated
by the Institute al any time by threa calendar monthsnobice inwriling gvan
al any ime during service under this contract wilhoul any cause assigned.
Provided always the Institute may in lieu of the notice herein provided to
give the appoiniae 4 sum equivalent to the amount of he basic pay for
thraa months. The appaintas may terminalia his service by giving to the
Institula three calendar months notice in writing.

[14] The appointee will be allowed the stalus of Professor of the Depanment of
his specially and take partin laaching and research inthe said Depanment
subectts his convenience.

(15) In respect of any matiar for which no provision has bean made in this
agreamentthe appointee will ba governed by the said National Instiutes af
Technology Act, 2007 orany modification thereof for the time being in force
and the Stalules made there under for ime being in farce.

(31)


--- Page 33 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(1]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF on tha day and the yearfiret above written,
the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Instiluia has hareinto
set his hand and lhe appoiniae hashereinio sathis hand

Signed and delivered forthe
National nsttula of Tacinology,
by the Chairperson,

Board of Governors of tha Institute

In tha presence of Signature of Wilnesses with addresses Signed and delivered by
ihe said ap pointes in the presence of Signalureot witnesses with
addresses

Director, NIT.

(32)


--- Page 34 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3{i]

SCHEDULE "B"
[See Statute 18(3)]

CONTRACT OF SERVICE FOR THE POST OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR

An AGREEMENT for service mada this day date of

two thousand between (herein after called the appointee) af
the one part and the National Institule of Technology incorporaled under the
National Institutes af Technology Act, 2007 (29 of 2007).

* WHEREAS in terms of Section 17(1) of tha National Institute of Technology Act,
2007 (hareinafilar called the Act) and Statula 18(3) {in case of NIT, }
(hereinafter called Statutes), the Visitor has been pleased fo approve the
appoinimeantofthe appointee as lhe Depuly Director of tha Institula on contractfor a
period of three years initially which may be axlandad by two times forone year each
on the recommendation of the Board and the appointee has accepled such
appointment upon the terms and conditions hereinaflar appearing NOW THESE
PRESENTS WITNESSETH and the parties hareto respect vely agree as follows :-

[1] This agreamentofsenice shall ba deemed to have been entered into subject at
all times to lhe provisions of the Act, and Statutes covering the Instiutes asin
force fromtime to ime as applicable lo parmanentconfirmed amployeas.

[2] The appointee shall be on service under the agreement fora period of lhree
years extendable by two years on yaarto year base with affectitom___{ihat
is date of joining the post) provided thal if the appointee on conclusion of the
period of service mentioned above is below 65 years of age, his service shall
continue tilltha 30th June ofthe year in which the appoiniee concludes
ihe said period of service or fill he allains the age of 65, whichever is earlier.

[3] The appoiniae shall serve the Institute as tha whole lime Depuly Director ofthe
Institute with powers and duties provided in the Act and Statules. He shall
raportte the Director fordiachange ofhis duties.

[4] Theappoiniae shall davote his whole lime to tha service of the Insitute and will
ba subject lo the Canduct Rules and olher provisions of tha said Act and the
Statules. Any informaton obtained by appointee during or in connection with
his service and tha work upon which he is engaged shallbe treated as secret
and confidantial and appointes shall ba deemed in all respects taba subjact to

(33)


--- Page 35 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(i]

55]

5]

[7]

5]

the Indian Officials Secrets Act, 1923, as amended from ime tolime.

During tha period of his service except in respect of any period of suspansian
and also of any period of leave without pay, tha appointee shall be eniiled
subject to the Indian Income Tax toan inilial pay of Rs. in tha scale
of Rs. provided that if any time the appointee proceeds on deputation
outofindia his payand allowances during tha period hie dapulation will ba such
as may be decided by tha Board of Governors. In addition the appointee shall
draw allowances like Dearness Allowance, Cily Compensatory Allowance ate.
as maybe admiesible fram time io time as perrules ofthe Insitute.

During his service under these present the appoiniae shall subscribe lo the
Contributory Provident Fund-cum-Gratuily of the Institute according to the
provisions made in the Statutes and subject to such modifications in these
provisions as maybe mada fram time to lime and shall also ba entitled to tha
contribution of the Institute as admissible to tha parmanent confirmed
amployeesas per the Statutes. In the event of the appointee being employerof
any other National Institutes of Technology and anoying the benefit aither
under Contributory Provident Fund-cum-Gratuiy Scheme or General
Provident Fund-cum-Pension-cum-Gratuily Scheme, he shall join the
corresponding Scheme of the Instiute wilh transfer of this accumulation as
admissible under the Statutes. In case the appoiniae is the amployee of the
Institute he shall continue to be governed by Contributory Provident Fund-cum-
Gratuly Scheme or General Providant Fundeum-Pension-cum-Graluily
Schemeas immediately prior to this contract appointment and shall be eniiled
to benefits of the scheme for the period of his service under this contract like
olher permanant amployees of tha institutes as parthe Statutes.

Nobwilhetanding anything hereinbefore contained the appointee shall unless
otherwise decided by the Institute be antitied to receive lhe whole or in pant as
may be determined by the Institute the benefits of any improvement in te
revision of scale of pay and ill ralirament banefils thal may be affected by tha
institula subject to the date of these presente in tha terms and conditians of the
service of members of the branch of Institute, service to which he may for the
lime being belong, ha decision of the Iinstitube in respect of such improvement
in tha tanms and conditions of their service of appointes shall operate so as to
modify lo thatextent the provisions ofthese presents.

The appointee shall be entitled to bkave as admissible to permanent non
vacation amployees ofthe Insfilute under the Statutes.

(34)


--- Page 36 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART lI-SEC.3{7)]

[3] The appointes shall be entitled tofurnished free of license fea accommodation
intha campus of the Institula as may be sanctioned by lhe Board of Governors
ofthe Institute.

(10) The appointees shall be eligible for privilege in relation to medical allandance
and feaimentas provided forin the Statutes.

[11] The appointee shall be paid travelling expenses for joining he Institute as
admiesible to an officer ofthe Cantral Government of aquvvalantrankunderthe
Transfer. Traveling Allowance Rules of the Central Government deeming the
appointmentofthe appaintes as on transfer in the public inlarest

If tha appoiniae is required to travel in the inlarest of Institute wark, he shall be
entitled to travelling allowance on lhe scale provided forin the T. A. Rules ofthe
institute in farca from time to ime. Similarly the appointea shall be entitled ta
laave travel concession for visiling hs hometown as per the Rules of the
Institute.

[12] Any amount recewed by the appointee fram books and articles published by
him at hie cost shall be left to him as an encouragement for continuing hie work
in that line. He would also be allowed to do consullancy and retain benefit of
ihe same as per rules laid down by the Board fram time to time.

[13] The service of appointee may during the period of contract, be terminated by
the Institula al any lime by three calendar months notice in wriling given al any
time during service under this contract withoul any cause assigned. Prowded
ahways the Instiute may in lieu of the notice herein provided to gwe the
appointee a sum equivalent to the amount of his basic pay for three months.
Thea appointaa may terminate his service by giving to the Institute three
calendar months notice in writing.

[14] The appainiae will be allowed the status of Professor of dapanment of his
specialization fo the par in teaching and research in the Deparment of

subject to his convenience.

[15] In respect of any matter for which mo provision has been made in this
agreement the appointee will be governed by the said National Institutes of
Tachnalogy Act, 2007 orany modification thereoffor the time being in force and
the Stalutes made thare under for time being in force.

(35)


--- Page 37 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART lI-SEC.3(i)]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF on the day and the year first above writlan, the
(Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Institute has hereinto set his
hand and the appointes has hareinto sethishand.

Signed and delivered forthe

National Institute of Technology,

by the Chairperson,

Board of Governors of the Institute

Inthe presence of

Signature of Wilness with addresses

Signed and delivered by the said appointes

Inthe presence of Signature af wilnesses wilh addresses
Depuly Director, NIT

(36)


--- Page 38 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3{7)]

SCHEDULE ‘C'
[See Statute 19 (5)]

DEANSHIPS

The institula may have not more than sm deanships. Thera may be following
Deanships in National Institute of Technology with the approval of the Board of
‘Govemors:

Dean Academic

Dean Planning and Development
Dean Student Welfare

Dean Facully Welfare

Dean( Research and Consultancy)

Deanship i& of functional position and not administralve one and such be
discharged in it right spirit Dean must be nominated by the Director only from
amongst! tha Professors/Associale Professors, bul should not be Head of the
Deparment.

Tha Tenure of Deanship shall ordinarily ba two years extendable by ana more
year, but Director wilh the approval of the Chairperson, Board of Governors may
ralieve any orall Deans before such period.

DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEANS
The following duties and responsibilities have been entrusted to thea Deans

1. Dean (Academic)
Ha/shea willadvice the Director in:
(a) Admission and enrollment of students;

(b) Finalisaton of academic calendar, imetables, regtration of student for
course work and examinations, class room arrangement and all other
requirements for proper conduct of dass work;

(c} Conduct of class tests and co-coordinaling the finalization of session's

(37)


--- Page 39 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART lI-SEC.3(i]

(a)
(2)
(h
{al

(h)

i

(k)
()

eavaluatonsand foreansuring he timely declaration ofresulls.

Supervision of the maintenance of upto-date academic records of all
categories of students;

Publication and distribution of the syllabi

‘Organizing meeting ofall the Institute |avel academic bodies;

Arranging the issue of all academic canificates, medals and prizes to the
Ssludents;

To arrange or conduct of those examinations which are tobe conduced by
ihe Institute as stipulated in the Insfilute regulations;

To formulate poliges for the conduct of research and steps to mainiain
suitable standard by implementing the Board of Governore/Sanala
decision.

To execute the policy of tha Senate in the conduct of P\G., Ph.D.and other
research programmes including the examination of the thesis.

To co-ordinala for he conductofCanvacatian.

All propoéals to modify the leaching programmes will ba considered by
BOAC, for which Dean (Academic) Le. the Chainman and if approved will
be gant lo the Sanals for formal approval.

(m) To admit sponsored Early Facully Induction Programme and Quality

{n}

Improvement Programme candidates.

To suggest the Diredorto take suilable steps from time to time to strive for
ihe high academic standards.

2. Dean(Planning and Development)
Hal shea will advice the Director in the following:

(a)

{b)

Planning the expansion and diveredication of institutional activities and
preparation of all davelopmental proposals, tothe axtent up to submission
of plan & estimates related fo Civil, electrical, Works, sanitary, network
system, alc.

Maintenance of all necessary slalistical dala regarding plan & project
required for compilation of various reports periodically required to be sant
io Ministry ofHuman Resource Development and other agencies.

(38)


--- Page 40 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3{7]

{cs}

(d)

(8)

(fh

(a)

(hy

Moniloring the physical targets and utilization of funds in respect of
Projects & Consullancy and in the preparation of relevant papers for
submission of progress reports.

Formulating proposal for new courses and in organizing meetings of
faculty members and externalexpensforthis purpose in this regard,

In the affons io expand and monitor the adivilies of consullancy, testing
and sponsored research of Instilute and to ensure submission of progress
reports:

In coordinating the formulation and conduct of norformal and continuing
education and extension programmes.

To arrange for tha agenda and organization of tha meeting for procurament
ofequipments related to projects and testing & consullancy.

Providing necessary data forthe budgel and new esiimates & plans tothe
Building & Works Committee to the Regetrar. .

3. Dean (Students Welfare)

{al
(b)

(c)

(d)

(a)

(fh
(a)
(hy

He/she willadvice the Director in organising the sludants counseling.
He/she will be responsible for the publication of student’ Magazine, News
Bulletins, News letlars atc.

He/she will advice the Director in matters relaied to students discipline and
welfare.

He/she will agsiet the Director in mallars related to the Students
Union/Association / Council.

He/She will co-ordinate tha NOC, NSS, Games, Swimming Pool, Sport,
‘Cultural and Go-curricular and Extra-curricular aciivilias of the students.
He/she willkeep a record ofAlumni and correspond with tham.

He/she will conduct the anquiries of studants indulged in indisapiine.

He/she will correspond with Parants/Guardians of Students about their
progress.and individual problems/ welfare.

4. Dean Faculty welfare
He/she willadvice tha Director in matlars related to:

(39)


--- Page 41 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART lI-SEC.3(i]

{a}

{b)

{c)

(d)
(8)

if

(a)

(h)

Deputation of faculty lo various institutions under Quality Improvement
Programme

Ha’she will advice the Diractor for deputation of the facully mambers to
various conferences, seminars, short-term courses, training prorammes,
foreign teaching / raining assignments alc.

He/she will chair tha commiltea meetings of the evaluation of papers
submillad or to be submitted to the conferences / seminar by the faculty
mami bers.

He/she will assist the Direchor in organizing training progamimes for facully.
Halshe will assist the Direchorin the supervision of fhe construction and the
maintenance work of buildings, roads, walersupply, sanilation, lawns and
gardens, communication networks, water coolers, air conditioners,
lalaphones, alc.

He/she will assist the Directorin maintaining he discipline and work ethos
among tha variousdapanmentsand between the facully members.
He/she will aeeiet tha Director in maintaining the high academic standards
and achieving academic excellence in the institution.

Supervision over facully dieciplina, intagrily and commitment.

§. Dean(Research and Consultancy)
Halshea will advice the Director in matters related lo:

fa)
{b)
fc)
(d)

(2)

Frame rules for industrial sponsored research and consullanay.
(Create and maintain database regarding facully axparniae.

Facilitate through his/heroffica facully in procuring equipments nacassary
{6 conduct reasearnch/consullancy work, recruiimentofproject staff.

Coordinala co curricularachiles (technical festivals, quizzes atc.) for the
sludants.

Provide guidance for submitting proposals to funding agencies such as
Department of Science and Technology (DST), Bhabha Alomic Research
Canta (BARC), Board of Research in Nuclear Sciances (BRNS), Indian
Space Research Organization (ISRO), Defansae Research and
Development Organisation (DRDO), Aeronaulics Research and
Development Board (AR& DB), Ministry of information Technology, abc.

(40)


--- Page 42 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3{i)]

SCHEDULE ‘D’
[See Statute 24(viij]

FORWARDING OF APPLICATIONS FOR EMPLOYMENT ELSEWHERE

Applications foramployment shall be forwarded only as per the norms approved by
the Board of Governors:

Allamployees are under terms of their service, required to observe following norms
for applying for other jobs in Government | private or elsewhere:

1. General Principles:

(i)

(il)

(ii

A permanent employes, having good promotion prospects, i under a
normal obligation to devola his energies whole-heartedly to the duties of
his post. It will not ba unjust if his application for other amployment
withheld and notforwarded.

Application of a temporary employee should not be withheld unless there
are compelling grounds to be recorded and communicated to such
tamporary employes. Application fram a lamporary amployee, who may
have good prospects of baing made parmanent in due course, should be
daaltwith on merits.

Employees whohave been given some technical training at Government /
Institula expense, should continue to serve the Institule al least for the
bond panod and withholding of application in such 4 case fs justifiable.
Board may decide the policy in such cases.

(iv) Where an employes cannot be spared wilhoul serious detriment to

2.

importantworkin hand, hisapplication can be withheld.

Application for posts advertised by Union Public Service C ommission

Institula employees can apply directly lo posts advertised by Union Public Service
Commission bul should keep the Head of the Department and Director informed.
Subsequently, he should seek lhe permission for such appointment, bul before
appearing for the intaniew.

(41)


--- Page 43 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3(1]

3. Posts inthe other National Institutes of Technology / Central Universities
and othercomparable Institutions of HigherEducation:

(a) The application from permanent. amployee should accompany wilh an
underlaking that he will ailher join back to the concerned National
Institutes of Technology or resign from post held by him in that National
Institute of Technology after 3 years.

(b) Tamporaryeamployee should give an undanaking to resign in the avent of hie
selecion and acceptance ofthe new appointment.

Fora ign assignments againstapen advernisamants:

(a) The amployes can apph wilh prior permission of tha Chainpercon, Boarndof
‘Governors to be confirmed bythe Board of Governors.

(b) the time is short, an advance copy can be sent to he concemed agency
with a copy to the Chairperson, Board of Governors for approval through
proper chaninal.

(o) Such employee shall nol be considered as an official nominee of National
Institute of Tachnalagy concerned.

Posts nol Advertised or Circulated.
The application shall notbe forwarded.

Registration with EmploymentExchange.

Tamporary employees can register with penmission, bul should resign when
selected.

Permanantamployae can ragislar:

(a) only for higher post under the Government/Public Sector Undertaking /
Autonomous Body,

(b) on production of a No Objection Canificate, fram the National Institute of
Technology, and

(¢) an undertaking thathe will after the completion of three years ofjaining the
naw posteithar rejoin to the concerned National Institute of Technology ar
resign.

(42)


--- Page 44 ---
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [PART II-SEC.3{i]

(qd) when an employee rejcins his parent office, he will not be granted a "no
objection canificate” fora period of three years to register his name wilh
the Employm ant Exchange again.

Employee under Suspension or Charge Sheeted.
No application should be forwarded ifthe employee & undarsuspensian or
a charge sheel has been issuedfiled in the court or sanction for he
prosecution has been accorded.

Employees whose condud is under Investigalian.

An application of ain amployee whose conduct 6 under investigation may
be forvarded with brief comments on the nature of allegations and wilh a
nole that he would not be released ff the amployee is placed undar
Suspension ofa charge sheelis sued! filed in the courtor sanction farhe
prosecution accorded before his selection.

(43)


--- Page 45 ---
No.F.22 = 5/2006 - TS.0l (Pt.)
Government of India
Ministry of Hurnan Resource Development
Department of Higher Education

Shastri Bhawan,
New Delhi, the 17" May, 2008

To

The Carectors,
National Institutes of Technology (ITS)

Subject:- First Statutes under the National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007 (29
of 2007) - Forwarding of the Gazette Notification,

Sir} Madam,

lem directed to forward herewith @ copy of the Notification published in Gazette of
India Extraordinary Part = Il, Section - 3, Sub-Section — (i) dated 23” April, 2009 regarding
the First Statutes under the National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007 for information and
necessary action.

‘Yours faithfully,

[MADAN MOHAN]
Director (NIT)
Telefax: 2338 7465
