
--- Page 1 ---
Physical Reporting UG &
Dual Degree 2023
A Comprehensive Guide:
NATIONAL INSITITUE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 2 ---
Dear Candidate,
Congratulations on choosing NIT Agartala for your further studies. A hearty welcome to the
Institute. You have been Provisionally selected for admission to the B.Tech./ Dual Degree
(B.Tech.+ M.Tech.)/ B.S.M.S programme at this Institute.
During your stay at NIT Agartala, you are expected to maintain good conduct, adequate academic
standing and discipline. To begin your journey with NIT Agartala, complete the Online Registration
Process, before reaching NIT Agartala by following the instructions mentioned in the annotated
figures.
Dean Academic Affairs
Registration Process
1. You are required to register yourself by visiting the website https://mis.nita.ac.in/ and clicking
on the link UG Admissions (refer to Fig. 1).
1
Fig. 1
2. On clicking the link that is shown Fig.1, you will get a window as shown in Fig. 2.
2
3
4
9
Fig. 2

--- Page 3 ---
3. Enter the JEE Main Application number.
4. Enter your Date of Birth.
5. Click on Proceed button. You will get a form that is shown in Fig. 3, where you have to accept
the terms and conditions.
Fig. 3
6. Agree to all these points by checking against each.
7. Finally click on I Agree button to agree on the terms and conditions. You get a form that is
shown in Fig.4. This is a semi pre-filled form. Your name, Fathers name, JEE Main
Application number, Mobile number and Email id will come pre-filled.
8. You have to upload the documents (in proper formats and sizes under 500 kb as mentioned.
In a document runs into multiple pages, convert them into a single pdf to upload).
9. Click on the Submit button. This completes your registration process.
10. To download the registration slip, click on the button Registration in Fig. 2. A sample of the
Registration slip is shown in Fig 5. Bring the registration slip with all other documents as is
suggested in the notice.
11. You have to upload the documents (in proper formats and sizes as mentioned. In a document
runs into multiple pages, convert them into a single pdf to upload).

--- Page 4 ---
Fig. 4
NIT Agartala
NIT Agartala is about 35 km from the airport and 25 km from the Agartala Railway station.
Agartala is connected by flight as well as train. You are advised to plan your arrival within the
normal working hours (9 AM to 5 PM). NIT Agartala campus has limited accommodation facilities
for parents and guardians. In case of late arrival, you are advised to stay at any hotel in Agartala,
Hotels in Agartala may be booked in advance.

--- Page 5 ---
XXXXXXXX XXXXXXX
XXXXXXX
XXXXXXX
Fig. 5
The parents or guardians have to make arrangements to stay either at Agartala or at the Institute
Guest House. As there is a limited number of rooms in the guest house, rooms will be provided
on a first come first serve basis. To book a room in the Institute Guest House, you may email
ighnita@gmail.com and manishbhargava257@gmail.com. Booking of a room in the Guest
House, if available will be for a limited period. The room rents at the guest house are:

--- Page 6 ---
a) ₹1200 (Double bedded room on sharing basis)
b) ₹ 800 (Single occupancy in a double bedded room)
To reach NIT Agartala, Taxi/Auto-Rickshaw is easily available from the Airport, Railway Station
as well as the city. There are two road routes to NIT Agartala from the city. You may arrive at
NIT Agartala either at Gate No. 1 or Gate No. 2, depending upon whether your driver travels via
Jirania or Ranir Bazaar, respectively.
The venue for Physical Reporting
You are advised to report, for physical verification, to the venue mentioned below in Table 1.
Each reporting venue has a Label (shown in the adjacent cell). Locate this number on the map
(Fig. 6) to reach your destination.
The Campus map show the route to your destination starting from Gate No. 1 and Gate No. 2.
You will see the way to Boys Hostel (Rabindra Nath Tagore Hostel) and Girls Hostel (Gargi
Hostel) from your reporting center. A vehicle will ply along the route, coloured in blue on the map,
Fig. 6, every half an hour. Besides this, the campus map will guide you to reach the Bir Bikram
Amenity Centre , the marketing centre of the Institute, where you will get all the essentials
(Bedding, Stationaries etc.) needed for your stay at the hostel.
Sl. Allotted Department by JoSAA/CSAB Venue Label
No. on Map
1. Civil Engineering Civil Engineering Department 1
2. Mechanical Engineering Old Academic Block, Room no. 100 2
3. Chemical Engineering Old Academic Block, Room no. 111 2
4. Bio-Engineering Old Academic Block, Room no. 111 2
5. Production Engineering Old Academic Block, Room no. 200 2
6. Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering Department 3
7. Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering Electrical Engineering Department 3
8. Electronics & Communication Engineering Electronics & Communication 3
Engineering Department
9. Computer Sc. & Engineering (including IIIT Agartala) Computer Sc. & Engineering 4
Department
10. Physics CDAC Building 5
11. Chemistry CDAC Building 5
12. Mathematics Mathematics Department 6

--- Page 7 ---
Fig. 6 A Schematic Map of the Campus NIT Agartala

--- Page 8 ---
Physical Reporting
During reporting, the officers will verify the documents uploaded by you with the originals. They
will retain a set of photocopies of all the documents you have uploaded, along with the original
copy of the Migration and Character Certificate. The officers will also check whether the contents
of the income certificate and the affidavit are as per the notice circulated by the Institute. If the
documents are found in order, the family income will be changed to the claimed level, else the
default, Above 5 lakhs will remain unchanged.
After successful verification, you will get a provisional admission letter as shown in the Fig.7.
Please note down, for future use, from the provisional admission letter the following contents
that are marked in red
a) Enrolment Number,
b) Roll Number.,
c) Section Number,
d) Group Number,
e) Name and contact of your Faculty advisor,
f) Login id and Password of the institute MIS.
Do change the password with a suitable one of your choice, at the first login.

--- Page 9 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Jinsnis, Tolpucati)}-799048

url: hthpe} ara .inita.2c.iin

t23Uceqg)
PROVISIONAL ADMISSION DETAIL (2023-24)

General Information

Taken No NITA-UG-D4 546
JEE Main Application Na r KLIsdoo0s7T4a
Student Full Name

Date of Birth E

Caste Category cinwG

Sub Caste Category

Student Mobile © Bo0o00000

Quota © All India

Sat Pom t GENDER-NEUTRAL
Admission Details

Date of Admissian OF /O8 2024
SHOE. BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY

Branch CIVIL ENGINEERING
Payment Type REGULAR emester : FIRST SEMESTER

State of Evigibility HAI Admission Type 1 REGULAR
¥oar [ éanige Category 2 CWS

Entrance Exam Scores

Exam Name t JEE MAIN Rall Mo. Zank/ Percentile

Family Details
Arinual Income [Es ) 1 ABOVE 5.00 000-00.
Payment Details

Transaction DD Payment Mode Beciept Type
OD No
LODLIB2 736318 | 7000 OF /08/ 2023 | ONLINE raVMENT | UME PAYAENT | successy ¥
— a2499952454 140 26200 OF /08/ 2023 OMLIME Parse Hostel Fee SUCCESS-¥

Faculty Adviser

1 PROF. RICH] PRASAD SHARMA Email 1D 2 richishanma.sharmadggmailcaml

Department CIVIL ENGINEERING Moablle No. 2 S42646247q

Dhe.-Stqdest jf instructed ta fogun fo mis.owitaclin oy using rh dogim io Z227UTECOL and [password]
[26126230] morose, the student should 4 up ai the information sought therein. In case the stusent fails
at

provide the requisite information within 7 days from the day of aominsion, fefshe wil be debared from
appcaniog in hie mid-semester examination of the session 2027-24.

Signature of the Candidate Authorized Signature

 


--- Page 10 ---
Hostel Allotment
For the purpose of hostel allotment, refer to the notice F.NITA.74(52)/CW/Notification/2022 dated
9/8/2022. Hostel rooms will be made available on a twin-shared basis. As there are not sufficient
rooms available in the Girls’ Hostel, only those whose Home-State is other than Tripura will be
provided rooms in priority. Girls from their Home State Tripura may get accommodation at a later
date. Such students are advised to arrange for their accommodation for the time being.
.
Fig. 8 Steps to pay Hostel Initial Fees
After physical verification, log in to your MIS account by using your login id and password
mentioned in the Provisional admission letter. After that, eligible students, as per the above-
mentioned notice, should log in to your MIS account and pay Hostel Initial Fees (₹ 7000) and Hostel
Fees (₹ 26200). A schematic for initiation of payment for Hostel Initial Fees is shown in Fig. 8 above,
where the steps are marked in Red. In a similar way pay the Hostel Fees.
Once the Hostel Initial Fees and Hostel Fees are paid, a Hostel room can be self-allotted by the
students. The steps to be followed are marked in Red in Fig. 9.

--- Page 11 ---
Fig. 9. The room allotment page showng the steps
1. Click on the Allot Room.
2. Once allotted you get a pop up (remove pop blocker of the browser, if any)
3. Click on the Report, to get the Room allotment letter.
After the successful allotment of Hostel accommodation, visit the hostel supervisor's office of your
allotted hostel (RNT/Gargi), and show the soft copy of the money receipts for Hostel Initial fees and
Hostel fees, and the Hostel room allotment letter along with the filled hostel application form.
Wish you a comfortable stay at the Hostel.
Attend Classes
:
Based on the allocated section, start attending the classes. Classes for the first-year students are
generally held at New Academic Block (NB) and at Old KV building (WS-2). The section wise class
room distribution are shown in Table 2.
Table 2
1st Year Class Rooms
Section Building Room
A NB 309
B NB 310
C NB 403
D WS-2 R-1
E NB 405
F NB 406
G NB 407
H NB 408
I NB 409
J NB 410
K WS-2 R-2
L WS-2 R-3