
--- Page 1 ---
GUIDELINES FOR PREPARATION OF THESES/
DISSERTATIONS/ REPORTS
PREAMBLE
While utmost attention must be paid to the contents of the thesis/ dissertation/ report
(here-in-after called the 'thesis'), which is being submitted in partial fulfillment of the
requirements of the respective degree, it is imperative that a standard format be prescribed.
Write up of the thesis may be prepared either in M.S. word or Latex. The same format shall
also be followed in preparation of the final soft copies to be submitted to the Library in
future.
1. ORGANIZATION OF THE THESIS/ DISSERTATION/
REPORT
This thesis shall be presented in a number of chapters, starting with Introduction and
ending with Summary and Conclusions. Each of the other chapters will have a precise title
reflecting the contents of the chapter. A chapter can be subdivided into sections, subsections
and subsubsection so as to present the content discretely and with due emphasis.
1.1. Introduction
The title of Chapter 1 shall be Introduction. It shall justify and highlight the problem
posed, define the topic and explain the aim and scope of the work presented in the thesis on
the basis of the literatures cited. It may also highlight the significant contributions from the
investigation.
1.2. Report on Present Investigation
The reporting on the investigation shall be presented in the next chapters with
appropriate chapter titles.
1

--- Page 2 ---
 Due importance shall be given to experimental setups, procedures adopted,
techniques developed, methodologies developed and adopted.
 While important derivations/formulae should normally be presented in the text of
these chapters, extensive and long treatments, copious details and tedious
information, detailed results in tabular and graphical forms may be presented in
Appendices. Representative data in table and figures may, however, be included in
appropriate chapters.
 Figures and tables should be presented immediately following their first mention in
the text. Short tables and figures (say, less than half the writing area of the page)
should be presented within the text, while large table and figures may be presented on
separate pages.
 Equations should form separate lines with appropriate paragraph separation above
and below the equation line, with equation numbers flushed to the right. Equation
number of all the Equation should be chapter wise. The number of Equations should
follow right alignment.
1.3. Results and Discussions
This shall form the penultimate chapter of the thesis and shall include a thorough
evaluation of the investigation carried out and bring out the contributions from the study. The
discussion shall logically lead to inferences and conclusions as well as scope for possible
further future work.
1.4. Summary and Conclusions
This will be the final chapter of the thesis. A brief report of the work carried out shall
form the first part of the Chapter. Conclusions derived from the logical analysis presented in
the Results and Discussions Chapter shall be presented and clearly enumerated, each point
stated separately. Scope for future work should be stated lucidly in the last part of the
chapter.
2

--- Page 3 ---
1.5. Appendix
Detailed information, lengthy derivations, raw experimental observations etc. are to
be presented in the separate appendices, which shall be numbered in Roman Capitals (e.g.
“Appendix IV”).
1.6. Literature Cited
The list of references should appear at the end of each chapter with references listed
either alphabetically or sequentially as they appear in the text of the thesis. If pertinent works
have been consulted but not specifically cited, they should be listed as Bibliography or
General References. Spacing and font size should be consistent inside a single reference, and
there should be double spacing between two different references. The font size and line
spacing of each reference shall follow the format of original write-up. The reference format
of different category of references are given next page:
Reference Format
For referencing an article in a scientific journal and conference proceedings, the
suggested format should contain the following information: authors, year, (and/ or) title and
name of journal, volume number and page numbers.
For referencing an article published in a book, the suggested format should contain
authors, year, the title of the book, editors, publisher along with ISBN No., page number of
the article in the book being referred to.
For referencing a thesis the suggested format should contain, author, submitted or
awarded year, the title of thesis, name of the organization where the thesis was submitted.
A few examples of formats of references are given below and the student should be
consistent in following the style.
i. Journals
Exner, H. E. (1979), “Physical and Chemical Nature of Cemented Carbides”, International
Metals Review, v. 24, pp. 149-173.
3

--- Page 4 ---
Or
Exner, H. E. (1979), International Metals Review, v. 24, pp. 149-173.
ii. Conference Proceedings
Fischmeister, H. F. (1982), “Development and Present Status of the Science and Technology
of Hard Materials”, Science of Hard Materials, Plenum Press, New York, NY, USA, pp. 1-
45.
Or
Fischmeister, H. F. (1982), Science of Hard Materials, Plenum Press, New York, NY, USA,
pp. 1-45.
iii. Books
German, R. M. (1990), “Powder Injection Molding”, Metal Powder Industries Federation,
Princeton, N. J., USA.
iv. Thesis
Johnson, J. L. (1994), “Densification, Microstructural Evolution, and Thermal Properties of
Liquid Phase Sintered Composites”, Ph.D. Thesis, the Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, PA, USA.
v. Technical Reports
Zukas, E. G., Rogers, P. S. Z. and Rogers, R. S. (1976), “Experimental Evidence for
Spheroid Growth Mechanisms in the Liquid Phase Sintered Tungsten Based Composites”,
Informal Report: Los Alamos Scientific laboratory, USA, pp. 1-35.
vi. Patents
Oenning V. and Clark, I. S. R. (1991), U. S. Patent No. 4988386.
4

--- Page 5 ---
vii. Journals in Non-English Language
Weihong L. and Xiuren, T. (1988), “Tungsten Matrix in Cu-W Contact Materials by
Impregnation Process,” Powder Metallurgy Technology, v. 6, n. 8, pp. 1- 4 (in Chinese).
Or
Weihong L. and Xiuren, T. (1988), Powder Metallurgy Technology, v. 6, n. 8, pp. 1- 4 (in
Chinese).
1.7. Publications by the Candidate
Articles, technical notes etc. on the topic of the thesis published by the candidate may be
separately listed after the LAST CHAPTER. This may also be included in the contents.
2. THESIS FORMAT
2.1. Paper
2.1.1. Quality
The thesis shall be printed/ Xeroxed on white bond paper, whiteness 95% or above,
weight 70 gram or more per square meter.
2.1.2. Size
The size of the paper shall be standard A 4; height 297 mm, width 210 mm.
2.1.3. Type Setting, Text Processing and Printing
The text shall be printed employing laser jet or Inkjet printer, the text having been
processed using a standard text processor. The standard font shall be Times New Roman of
12 pts with 1.5 line spacing.
2.1.4. Left and Right Margins
The candidates shall have to take double sided printing with mirrored left (38 mm)
and right (25 mm) margin.
5

--- Page 6 ---
2.1.5. Header
The header must have the Chapter number and Section number (e.g., Chapter 2,
Section 3) on even numbered page headers and Chapter title or Section title on the odd
numbered page header.
2.1.6. Paragraph format
Vertical space between paragraphs shall be about 2.5 line spacing. The first line of
each paragraph should normally be indented by five characters or 12mm. A candidate may,
however, choose not to indent if (s)he has provided sufficient paragraph separation.
A paragraph should normally comprise more than one line. A single line of a
paragraph shall not be left at the top or bottom of a page (i.e., no windows or orphans should
be left).
2.2. Chapter and Section Format
2.2.1. Chapter
Each chapter shall begin
 On a fresh odd number page with an additional top margin of about 75mm.
Chapter number (in Arabic) and title shall be printed at the center of the line
in 6mm font size (18pt) in bold face using upper case alphabets).
 A vertical gap of about 25mm shall be left between the Chapter number and
Chapter title lines and between chapter title line and the first paragraph.
2.2.2. Sections and Subsections
A chapter can be divided into Sections, Subsections and SubsubSections so as to
present different concepts separately. Sections and subsections can be numbered using
decimal points, e.g. 2.2 for the second section in Chapter 2 and 2.3.4 for the fourth
Subsection in third Section of Chapter 2. Chapters, Sections and Subsections shall be
included in the contents with page numbers flushed to the right. Further subsections need not
be numbered or included in the contents.
6

--- Page 7 ---
The Section and SubSection titles along with their numbers in 5 and 4mm (16 and 14
pt) fonts, respectively, in bold face shall be flushed to the left (not centered) with 12 point
and 6 point spacing respectively above and below these lines. In further subdivisions
character size of 3 and 3.5 with bold face, small caps, all caps and italics may be used for the
titles flushed left or centered. These shall not feature in the contents.
2.2.3. Table / Figure Format
As far as possible tables and figures should be presented in portrait style. Small size
table and figures (less than half of writing area of a page) should be incorporated within the
text, while larger ones may be presented on separate pages. Table and figures shall be
numbered chapter wise.
For example, the fourth figure in chapter 5 will bear the number Figure 5.4 or Fig 5.4.
Table number and title will be placed above the table while the figure number and caption
will be located below the figure. Reference for Table and Figures reproduced from elsewhere
shall be cited in the last and separate line in the table and figure caption, e.g. (after
McGregor[12]).
2.2.4. Non-paper Material
Digital or magnetic materials, such as CDs and DVDs may be included in the thesis. They
have to be given in a closed pocket in the back cover page of the thesis. It should be borne in
mind that their formats may become obsolete due to rapid change in technology, making it
impossible for the Central Library to guarantee their preservation and use.
All the non-paper materials must have a label each indicating the name of the thesis, name of
student and the date of submission.
7

--- Page 8 ---
3. Auxiliary Format
3.1. Binding
The evaluation copies of the thesis/dissertation/report may be spiral bound or soft
bound. The final hard bound copies to be submitted after the viva-voce examination. They
have to be hard-bounded with the following color specifications:
Ph.D. Thesis Blue
M.Tech. Dissertation Black
B.Tech./M.Sc. Project Report Brown
3.2. Front, Back and Side Covers
The front cover shall contain the following details:
18 to 22 point's size font (bold) properly centered and positioned at a
distance of 25 cm from the top.
Institute emblem of size 2” height should be placed at the centre of the front cover page.
Name of candidate (in Italic) along with the name of Department, Institute, …… Year is
in 12 to 16-point size, bold shall be placed at a distance of 25 cm from the bottom.
The side cover shall contain the following details:
 Name of degree along with name of thesis and candidates name is to be provided at the
closed side of the bounded book.
Sample copies of the ' Front Cover', and „Side Cover‟ are appended (Specimen 'A') and
(Specimen 'B') respectively.
3.2.1. Lettering in Front Cover and Side Cover
All lettering shall be embossed in silver.
3.3. Blank Sheets
In addition to the white sheets (binding requirement) two white sheets shall be put at
the beginning and the end of the thesis.
8

--- Page 9 ---
3.4. Title Sheet
This shall be the first printed page of the thesis and shall contain the submission
statement: the Thesis/Dissertation/project Report submitted in partial fulfillment of the
requirements of the Degree, Ph.D. /M.Tech./B.Tech./M.Sc., the name and Roll No. of the
candidate, name(s) of the Supervisor and Co-supervisor (s) (if any), Department, Institute
and year of submission.
Sample copy of the 'Title Sheet' is appended (Specimen 'C').
3.5. Dedication Sheet and Thought (or Idea) Sheet
The dedication sheet and the thought (or Idea) sheet are auxiliary pages. If the
candidate so desires (s)he may dedicate his/her thesis, which statement shall follow the title
page. If included, this shall form the page i of the auxiliary sheets but shall not have a page
number. If the candidate so desires (s)he may incorporate one thought (or idea) sheet which
follow the dedication sheet.
3.6. Approval Sheet
In the absence of a dedication sheet this will form the first page and in that case shall
not have a page number. Otherwise, this will bear the number two in Roman lower case “ii”
at the center of the footer.
The top line shall be:
1. Thesis Approval for Ph.D.
2. Dissertation Approval for M.Tech.,
3. Report Approval for B.Tech., and M.Sc. Projects, as the case may be.
The Approval Sheets are to be included only in the hard bound copies which are
submitted after the successful Ph.D. viva voce examination.
A sample copy of the Approval Sheet is appended (Specimen `D')
9

--- Page 10 ---
3.7. Declaration of Academic Honesty and Integrity
A declaration of Academic honesty and integrity is required to be included along with
every thesis/dissertation/report after the approval sheet. The format of this declaration is
given in Specimen `E' attached.
3.8. Certificate
A certificate is obtained from supervisor/supervisor (s) is to be enclosed. The format
of this certificate is given in specimen ‘F’ attached.
3.9. Preface, Acknowledgement and Curriculum Vitae
Candidate should include one page preface, one or two pages acknowledgement and
one page Curriculum Vitae. Curriculum Vitae is to be given at the last of the thesis after
Appendices.
3.10. Contents
The contents shall enlist the titles of the chapters, section and subsection using
decimal notation, as in the text, with corresponding page number against them, flushed to the
right. The format of the contents is given in specimen ‘G’ attached.
3.11. List of Figures and List of Tables
Two separate lists of Figure captions and Table titles along with their numbers and
corresponding page numbers against them shall follow the Contents. After that the list of
symbols as used in the thesis is to be given.
3.12. Abbreviation Notation and Nomenclature
A complete and comprehensive list of all abbreviations, notations and nomenclature
including Greek alphabets with subscripts and superscripts shall be provided after the list of
tables and figures. (As far as possible, generally accepted symbols and notation should be
used).
10

--- Page 11 ---
3.13. Abstract
An M Tech. thesis should contain an abstract not exceeding 300 words (about one
page), and a Ph.D. thesis should contain an abstract/synopsis not exceeding 500 words (about
1 ½ pages) in double spacing. The abstract shall highlight the important features of the thesis/
dissertation/report and shall correspond to the electronic version to be submitted to the
Library for inclusion in the website. The Abstract in the thesis, however, shall have two more
parts, namely, the layout of the thesis giving a brief chapter wise description of the work and
the key words.
3.14. Copyright Notice
The thesis has to contain copyright notice comprising of the followings:
a. The encircled symbol “C” ©
b. The year of the award of the degree
c. The name of the owner of the copyright
d. The sentence “All Rights Reserved”
Example:
© 2012 Anamica Das. All rights reserved
3.15. Units
Units used in the thesis should be SI units.
3.16. Pagination
Auxiliary page from dedication (if any) to abbreviations shall be numbered using
Roman numerals in lower case.
Page numbers for the body of the thesis should be in Arabic numerals and should be
centered at the bottom of the pages. The pagination should start with the first page of Chapter
1 and should continue throughout the text (including tables, figures, and appendices).
11