
--- Page 1 ---
Eee SECs

%

4-Year Integrated Teacher
Education Programme (ITEP)

Central/State University/Institutions
including IITs, NITs, RIEs and
Government Colleges

for the Academic Session

2024-25

eee
eoeo00
eee
eee00
eeeo0
Ce
eee0

 

ee00
eee0

 


--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION BULLETIN: NAHO@NAL COMMON ENTRANCE TEST - 2024

 

NATIONAL TESTING AGENCY

(Vision

The right candidates joining best institutions will give India her demographic
dividend.

A (ission

To improve equity and quality in education by administering research based valid,
reliable, efficient, transparent, fair and international level assessments. The best
subject matter experts, psychometricians and IT delivery and security professionals
will ensure that the current gaps in existing assessment systems are properly
identified and bridged.

Core (Values

NTA will create a system which will promote teaching (by teachers), learning (by
students) and assessment (by parents and institutions). NTA strongly believes in
quality, efficiency, effectiveness, equity and security of assessments. To practice
these values, NTA will constantly engage with its stakeholders, viz. students,
parents, teachers, experts and partner institutions.

 


--- Page 3 ---
CONTENT PAGE NO.
List of Abbreviations 4
Important Information and Dates at a Glance 5-11
Chapter-1 INTRODUCTION 12
1.1 About National Testing Agency (NTA)
1.2 About NCTE
1.3 About NCET 2024
1.4 Role of NTA
Chapter-2 EXAMINATION SCHEME 16
2.1 Mode of Examination
2.2 Medium of Examination
2.3 Scheme of Examination
2.4 Pattern of Examination
2.5 Tests / Subjects covered under NCET 2024
2.6 Duration of Test
2.7 Syllabus of Test
Chapter-3 Eligibility 21
3.1 Eligibility
3.2 List of Qualifying Exam
3.3 Year of Appearance in Qualifying Examination
3.4 NCTE Recognized Universities/Institutions
Chapter-4 Reservation 23
4.1 Reservations
4.2. Provisions relating to persons with disability
4.2.2 Guidelines for conducting written examinations for persons with
specified disabilities
Chapter-5 Choice of Cities 26
Chapter-6 Admit Card 27
Chapter-7 Schedule of Examination 28
Chapter-8 Fields of Application Form 29
Chapter-9 Important Instructions for the Candidates 34
1

--- Page 4 ---
Chapter-10 Unfair Means Practices and breach of Examination Rules 36
10.1 Definition
10.2 Punishment for Using Unfair Means practices
10.3 Cancellation of Result
Chapter-11 Barred Items 38
Chapter-12 Display of Answer Key for Challenge
12.1 Display of Answer Key Challenge
12.2 Display of Recorded Responses
12.3 Marking Scheme of Examination
12.4 Use of Scores of NCET 2024 by Other Organizations
Chapter-13 NCET 2024 Score and Admissions 41
13.1 NCET 2024 NTA Score
13.2 Re-evaluation/ Re-checking of the Result
13.3 Admissions
Miscellaneous 42
Chapter-14
Query Redressal System (QRS)
14.1
Correspondence with NTA
14.2
Weeding Out Rules
14.3
Legal Jurisdiction
14.4
2

--- Page 5 ---
S. No. Annexure Particulars Page
No. No.
1. I Disability Certificate Form-PwBD (II) 43
2. II Letter of undertaking using own Scribe 44
S. No. Appendix Particulars Page
No. No.
1. I List of Central/State Universities/Institutions including IITs, NITs, 45
RIEs, and Government Colleges for Academic Session 2024-25
2. II List of Languages/ Domain Specific Subjects/ General Test covered in 51
NCET 2024
3. III List of Examination Cities for NCET 2024 53
4. IV Procedure for Online Payment of Fees and Helpline for Payment- 57
Related Queries
5. V Computer Based Test (CBT) Guidelines 60
6. VI Procedure to be adopted for compilation of NTA Score for 64
Multi-Session Papers
7. VII Replica of the online Application Form of NCET - 2024
3

--- Page 6 ---
CBT Computer Based Test
NCTE National Council for Teacher Education
CU Central University
NCET National Common Entrance Test
EWS Economically Weaker Section
GOI Government of India
MCQ Multiple Choice Question
MoE Ministry of Education
NDA Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA)
NEGP National e-Governance Plan (NeGP)
NTA National Testing Agency
OBC-NCL Other Backward Classes-Non-Creamy Layer
PwBD Persons with Disabilities
QRS Query Redressal System
RPwBD The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016
SC Scheduled Castes
ST Scheduled Tribes
TPC Test Practice Centre
UPI Unified Payment Interface (UPI)
UR Unreserved
UT Union Territory
UI Under Graduate/Integrated
VLE Village level Entrepreneur
OCI Overseas Citizen of India
4

--- Page 7 ---
IMPORTANT INFORMATION AND DATES AT A GLANCE
(Please refer to Information Bulletin / University/ Institution / Government
College Websites for details
Important Dates and Fee Details for National Common Entrance Test 2024:
National Common Entrance Test 2024 will be conducted in 13 mediums across India in
Computer Based Test (CBT) mode for admission to a 4-Year Integrated Teacher
Education Programme (ITEP) in selected Central / State Universities / Institutions
including IITs, NITs, RIEs, and Government Colleges for the Academic Session 2024-25
as per the schedule given below:
13 April to 30 April 2024
Online Submission of Application Form
(up to 11:30 P.M.)
Last date of successful transaction of fee through
30 April 2024 (up to 11:50 P.M.)
Credit/Debit Card/Net-Banking/UPI
Correction in Particulars 02 May to 04 May 2024
Announcement of the City of Examination The last week of May 2024
03 days before the actual date of the
Downloading Admit Cards from the NTA website
Examination
Date of Examination 12 June 2024 (Wednesday)
Display of Recorded Responses and Answer Keys To be announced later on the website
www.nta.ac.in,
Website(s)
https://ncet.samarth.ac.in/
Declaration of Result on the NTA website To be announced later on the website
The following fee structure is applicable for NCET 2024:
Fee Payable by candidates [NCET 2024] in INR
General (UR) OBC)- (NCL)/ EWS SC/ST/PwBD/ Third gender
₹ 1200/- ₹ 1000/- ₹ 650/-
*Other Backward Classes-Non Creamy Layer as per the central list of Other Backward Classes available on National
Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), Government of India website www.ncbc.nic.in. Only the candidates falling
in this list may mention OBC in the Category Column. State list OBC candidates who are not in OBC-NCL (Central
List) must choose General/Unreserved.
**As per the OM No. 20013/01/2018-BC-II dated 17 January 2019, issued by the Ministry of Social Justice and
Empowerment and the OM No. 12-4/2019-U1 dated 17.01.2019 of MHRD Department of Higher Education regarding
the implementation of reservation for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) for admission in Central Educational
Institutions.
5

--- Page 8 ---
Broad features of NCET 2024 are as follows:
Mode of the Test Computer Based Test (CBT)
Objective type with Multiple Choice Questions
Test Pattern
13 languages (Assamese, Bengali, English, Gujarati, Hindi,
Medium Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Punjabi, Odia, Tamil, Telugu,
and Urdu )
Language: Language to be tested through Reading
Comprehension, Literary Aptitude, and Vocabulary
Domain Subject: As per Class 12 syllabus only.
General Test: General Knowledge, Current Affairs, General
Mental Ability, Numerical Ability, Quantitative Reasoning,
Syllabus
Logical and Analytical Reasoning
Teaching Aptitude: Topics related to the teaching of science,
Arts, Mathematics, Performing Arts, Languages, etc.
Registration Registration will be online at https://ncet.samarth.ac.in
Candidates are requested to fill in the Application Form very carefully.
(a) The fee can be submitted only online through Net Banking/Credit Card/Debit Card/UPI,
or Paytm Services. Processing charges and GST as applicable are chargeable from the
candidate (in addition to the examination fee) by the concerned Bank/Payment Gateway
Integrator. For details/procedure, please see Appendix-IV.
(b) The Confirmation Page of the online Application Form will be generated only after the
successful payment of the fee by the Candidate. In case the Confirmation Page is
not generated after payment of the fee, then the candidate may have to approach the
concerned Bank/Payment Gateway (in the helpline numbers and email given in Appendix-
IV to ensure the successful payment or to obtain the refund of duplicate /multiple
payments.
1. Candidates must carefully read the Instructions (including how to fill up the
Application Form online) given in the Information Bulletin available on the NTA
Website. Candidates not complying with the instructions shall be summarily
disqualified.
2. Candidates should apply for NCET 2024 through the (cid:147)Online(cid:148) mode only. The
Application Form in any other mode will not be accepted.
3. Submission of the Application Form could be made by the candidate online through
the NTA website: https://ncet.samarth.ac.in/ (Access is also available through the
NCTE website (https://ncte.gov.in) to reach to NTA website for the NCET 2024
online application.)
4. Instructions for filling Online Application Form:
 Before starting to fill the application form candidates are advised to read the Prospectus
displayed on the website of the NTA/NCTE/University/Institution/Government College
6

--- Page 9 ---
where admission is sought and be clear about the courses offered by them, seats
available, eligibility as regards age, passing/appearing in qualifying exam, minimum
marks in the qualifying exam, relaxation thereof, reservation, admission procedure, etc
before applying for the NCET 2024, as Universities have their own specific
requirements for admission to specified courses (discipline/stage). NTA will not
entertain the corrections sent by the candidate through Post/Fax/WhatsApp/E-mail/by
Hand.
 Download the Information Bulletin and Replica of the Application Form. Read these
carefully to ensure your eligibility
 Follow the steps given below to Apply Online:
Step 1: Registration Form:
Register for the Online Application Form and note down the system- generated Application
Number. The candidate should supply the required details while filling the Online Application
Form and is also required to create a PASSWORD choose Security Question and enter his/her
Answer. After successful submission of the personal details, an Application number will be
generated and it will be used to complete the remaining Steps of the Application Form and
will also be required for all future reference/correspondence. For subsequent logins, the
candidate will be able to login directly with the respective system-generated Application
Number and created Password.
Step 2: Application Form:
The Candidates can log in with the system-generated Application Number and pre-created
Password for completing the Application Form including filling up personal details,
providing the details of educational qualification, university/ programme selection, test
paper details, choosing the Examination Cities, and uploading the images and documents (if
any)
Upload Scanned Images of the Candidate(cid:146)s Photograph, Signature, and PwBD Certificate
(wherever applicable):
i. The recent photograph should be either in colour or black and white with 80% face (without
mask) visible including ears against a white background.
ii. The scanned photograph and signature should be in JPG/JPEG format (clearly legible).
iii. The size of the scanned photograph should be between 10 kb to 200 kb (clearly legible).
iv. The size of the scanned signature should be between 4 kb to 30 kb (clearly legible).
v. *The size of the scanned copy of the PwBD certificate should be between 50 kb to 300 kb
in pdf (clearly legible)
[Note: The Candidate has to upload only his/her own photograph, signature, and certificate(s)
as mentioned above (and not of anybody else) in a correct/proper manner. In case, it is found
at any time in the future that the Candidate has used/uploaded the photograph, signature, and
certificate(s) of someone else in his/her Application Form, or he/she has tampered with
his/her Admit Card/Result/Scorecard, these acts of the candidate shall be treated under
7

--- Page 10 ---
Unfair Means (UFM) Practices and actions taken as detailed under the provisions of the
Information Bulletin relating to Unfair Means Practices.
Please check your photograph and signature before submission of the Application Form.
In case the photograph or signature is blurred or not visible to identify the identity of the
candidate then, the application will be rejected and no option for correction or revision will
be permitted.
Step 3: Fee Payment:
After completing Step 1 and Step 2, the candidates have to pay the requisite examination fee.
The fee can be submitted only online through Net Banking, Credit Card, Debit Card, or UPI.
Processing charges and GST as applicable are chargeable to the candidate (in addition to the
examination fee) by the concerned Bank/Payment Gateway Integrator.
The Confirmation Page of the online Application Form will be generated only after successful
payment by the Candidate. In case the Confirmation Page is not generated after payment of
the fee, then the candidate may have to approach the concerned Bank/Payment Gateway (in
the helpline number and e-mail given in the Information Bulletin) to ensure the successful
payment or to obtain the refund of duplicate/multiple payments].
 Download, save, and print a copy of the Confirmation Page of the Application Form
(which would be downloadable only after the successful remittance of the fee) for future
reference.
 All 3 Steps can be done together or at separate timings. The submission of the Application of
a candidate could be considered as successful and his/her candidature would be confirmed
only on the successful transaction/receipt of the prescribed application fee from him/her.
5. Candidates shall ensure that the information entered by them in their respective online
Application Forms is correct.
6. Information provided by the candidates in their respective online Application Forms,
like the Name of the Candidate, Contact Details, Address Details, Category, Gender,
PwBD Status, Educational Qualification Details, Date of Birth, Choice of Exam
cities, etc. will be treated as final. Any request for change in such particulars will not be
considered by NTA under any circumstances.
7. All candidates must ensure that they have provided the correct e-mail address and
mobile number.
8. Candidates must ensure that their email address and mobile number to be registered
in their online Application Form are their own, as relevant/important information/
communication will be sent by NTA through e-mail on the registered mail address
and/or through SMS on the registered mobile number only. NTA shall not be
responsible for any non-communication /miscommunication with a candidate in the
email address or mobile number given by him/her other than his/her own.
9. NTA does not edit/modify/alter any information entered by the candidates after
completion of the application process under any circumstances. Any request for
change in information thereafter will not be entertained. Therefore, candidates are
8

--- Page 11 ---
advised to exercise utmost caution before filling up the correct details in the
Application Form.
10. NTA disclaims any liability that may arise to a candidate(s) due to incorrect
information provided by him/her in his/her online Application Form.
11. Candidates are advised to visit the NTA Website(www.nta.ac.in) and check their e-
mails regularly for the latest updates.
12. Candidates shall appear at their own cost at the Examination Centre on the date, shift,
and time indicated on their Admit Cards issued by the NTA in due course through its
Website.
Note:
i. The final submission of the Online Application Form will remain incomplete if Step 3 is not
complete. Such forms will stand rejected and no correspondence on this account will be
entertained.
ii. The entire application process for NCET 2024 is online, including uploading of scanned
images/documents, payment of fees, and printing of Confirmation Page, Admit Card, etc.
Therefore, candidates are not required to send/submit any document(s) including the
Confirmation Page to NTA through Post/ Fax/WhatsApp/Email/by Hand.
iii. Usage of Data and Information:
NTA/Government of India can use the data provided by the End Users (test taker in this case)
for training, research and development, analysis, and other permissible purposes (s).
iv. Candidates will also be required to indicate in their application form the name/s of the courses
opted for them. All candidates will be eligible for these courses provided they fulfill their
eligibility requirements and their data will be shared with University/ies, if required, at a later
date, to facilitate the process of their admission there. Hence, candidate/s are advised to exercise
care while filling the application form.
v. Candidates are advised to fill only one Application Form and to take utmost care while filling
out the mobile number and e-mail address. Candidates are also advised to use the mobile
number and email address that are accessible to them (may be parent/ guardian). One mobile
number and email address can be used for one Application Form only. However, in the case
of twins one mobile can be used for two candidates.
Important Points to Note:
Candidates who will be appearing in NCET 2024 will participate in the Counselling/admission
process of any Central/State University / Institution (IITs, NITs, RIEs, and Govt. Colleges) which
have been granted recognition by NCTE for ITEP for the academic session 2024-25. University/
Institution /Govt. College may fill up the vacant seats thereafter from the pool of NCET-qualified
candidates.
For any queries/ clarifications, candidates can also Email/call the NTA Helpdesk:
Email ID ncet@nta.ac.in
Contact Number 011- 40759000 / 011-69227700
9

--- Page 12 ---
Note:
1. All Candidates shall ensure that the information (like his/her name, mother(cid:146)s name, father(cid:146)s
name, gender, date of birth, category, PwBD status, mobile number, e-mail address,
photograph and signature, choice of cities for exam Centre, etc.) provided by them in their
online Application Form is correct and is their own.
2. Candidates are advised to read the Prospectus displayed on the website of the
University/ies where admission is sought and be clear about the courses offered by
them, seats available, eligibility as regards to age, passing/appearing in qualifying
exams, minimum marks in the qualifying exam, relaxation thereof, reservation,
admission procedure, etc. applicable and be clear before applying for the NCET 2024,
as Universities have their own specific requirements for admission to specified courses
(discipline/stage). NTA will not entertain the corrections sent by the candidate
through Post/Fax/WhatsApp/E-mail/by Hand.
3. In case it is found at any time in the future that the Candidate has used/uploaded the
photograph, signature, and certificate(s) of someone else in his/ her Application
Form/Admit Card or he/she has tampered with his/her Admit Card/result, it would be treated
as Unfair Means (UFM) Practices on his/her part and the actions will be taken under the
provisions of Unfair Means Practices, as detailed in the Information Bulletin.
4. Candidates are NOT allowed to carry Instruments, Geometry or Pencil box, Handbag,
Purse, any kind of Paper/ Stationery/ Textual material (printed or written material),
Eatables and Water (loose or packed), Mobile Phone/ Earphone/ Microphone/ Pager,
Calculator, DocuPen, Slide Rules, Log Tables, Camera, Tape Recorder, Electronic
Watches with facilities of calculator, any metallic item or electronic gadgets/ devices
in the Examination Hall/Room.
5. Candidates are advised to keep visiting the NTA/NCTE/ University / Institution /
Govt. College website(s) as mentioned above (in which candidate is applying) for the
latest updates/public notices / notifications / announcements regarding the NCET 2024
for admission in ITEP for the academic year 2024-25.
10

--- Page 13 ---
Brief Advisory:
Candidates are advised to carry only the following with them into the examination venue:
i. Admit card along with Self Declaration (Undertaking) downloaded from the NTA
Website (a clear printout on A4 size paper) duly filled in
ii. A simple transparent Ball Point Pen
iii. Additional photograph (same as uploaded on the Online Application Form) to be
pasted on the attendance sheet in examination Room/ Hall.
iv. Any one of the authorized photo IDs (must be original, valid, and non-expired) (cid:150)
School Identity Card/ PAN card/ Driving License/ Voter ID/ Passport/ Aadhaar
Card (With photograph)/E-Aadhaar with photograph/ Ration Card with
photograph/ Class 12 Board Admit Card with photograph/ Bank Passbook with
Photograph.
v. PwBD certificate issued by the authorized medical officer, if claiming the relaxation
under PwBD category
vi. Personal transparent water bottle
vii. Sugar tablets/fruits (like banana/apple/orange) in case the candidate is diabetic.
11

--- Page 14 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150) 1
INTRODUCTION
1.1. About National Testing Agency (NTA)
The Ministry of Education (MoE), Government of India (GoI) has established the National
Testing Agency (NTA) as an independent, autonomous, and self-sustained premier testing
organization under the Societies Registration Act (1860) for conducting efficient, transparent,
and international standardized tests in order to assess the competency of candidates for
admission to premier higher education institutions with a mission to improve equity and quality
in education by developing and administering research-based valid, reliable, efficient,
transparent, fair and international level assessments.
NTA has created a system that is promoting teaching (by teachers), learning (by students), and
assessment (by parents and institutions). NTA strongly believes in the quality, efficiency,
effectiveness, equity, and security of assessments. To practice these values, NTA is constantly
engaging with its stakeholders, viz. students, parents, teachers, experts, and partner institutions.
The objectives of NTA, inter alia, include:
1. To conduct efficient, transparent, and international standardized tests in order to assess the
competency of candidates for admission.
2. To undertake research on educational, professional, and testing systems to identify gaps in
the knowledge systems and take steps for bridging them.
3. To produce and disseminate information and research on education and professional
development standards.
National Testing Agency has been entrusted with the responsibility of conducting the National
Common Entrance Test (NCET) for admission to 4-Year Integrated Teacher Education
Programme (ITEP) in selected Central/State Universities/Institutions including IITs,
NITs, RIEs, and Government Colleges for the Academic Session 2024-25.
12

--- Page 15 ---
1.2. About National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE)
The NCTE, as a statutory body under the Department of School Education & Literacy, Ministry of
Education (MoE), Government of India came into existence in pursuance of the National Council
for Teacher Education Act, 1993 on 17th August 1995 with the mandate to achieve planned
and coordinated development of teacher education throughout the country and to govern the
regulation and proper maintenance of norms and standards for teacher education. The
organization is a pan-India jurisdiction and comprises various divisions along with 4 Regional
Committees namely Northern Regional Council, Eastern Regional Council, Southern Regional
Council, and Western Regional Council which are all stationed in New Delhi. The gamut of
functions performed by NCTE is very broad covering all the teacher education programmes
e.g. Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El. Ed), Bachelor of Education (B.Ed.), Master of
Education (M.Ed.), etc. It includes the Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP) for
student-teachers to equip them to teach at the Foundational, Preparatory, Middle, and
Secondary levels of the new school system in alignment with NEP 2020.
1.3. About National Common Entrance Test (NCET 2024)
National Common Entrance Test (NCET) is a national-level examination conducted by the
National Testing Agency (NTA), on behalf of the National Council for Teacher Education
(NCTE). Qualifying in NCET is a mandatory requirement for seeking admission to the 4-Year
Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP) in selected Central/State
Universities/Institutions including IITs, NITs, RIEs, and Government Colleges for the
Academic Session 2024-25.
The NCET Information Bulletin is mainly categorized into examination eligibility, application
submission, examination centres, content and test components, examination pattern,
marks/scores, etc. In all matters concerning NCET 2024, the decision of the NTA and NCTE
will be final and binding on all the applicants.
1.3.1 Background
NEP 2020 enacts numerous changes in India(cid:146)s teacher education sector, one of them is as
referred in para15.7: (cid:147)In order to maintain uniform standards for Teacher Education, the
admission to pre-service teacher preparation programmes shall be through suitable subject
and aptitude test conducted by the National Testing Agency and shall be standardized keeping
in view the linguistic and cultural diversity of the country(cid:148).
1.3.2 Integrated Teacher Education Programme
The 4-year integrated B.Ed. will be a dual-major holistic bachelor(cid:146)s degree, in Education as
well as a specialized subject (such as language, history, music, mathematics, computer science,
chemistry, economics, art, physical-education, etc.). Beyond the teaching of cutting-edge
pedagogy, the teacher education will include a grounding in sociology, history, science,
psychology, early childhood care and education, foundational literacy and numeracy,
knowledge of India and its values/ethos/art/traditions, and more. [NEP 2020: 15.5]
13

--- Page 16 ---
Recognition has been granted to selected Central/State Universities/Institutions which also
include IITs, NITs, RIEs, and Government Colleges for the Integrated Teacher Education
Programme (ITEP) as envisaged in NEP 2020 from the academic session 2024-25. The ITEP
is a Dual Major Programme -the first major is in Education with School Specific Stage
specialization and the second major is in an opted discipline. The approach to the design and
implementation of ITEP are:
 Education in Multidisciplinary Environment
 4-year duration after grade 12 of the school system
 Admission through the National Common Entrance Test (NCET) conducted by NTA
 Minimal degree qualification to become a teacher by 2030
 Responsive to new 5+3+3+4 design
 Introduction of Credit System as per UGC
 Integrated Dual-Major Degree- Disciplinary & Professional Knowledge of Education
 Focus on 21st Century Skills
 Stage Specialization (5+3+3+4): Each student will specialize in one of the following school stages
which will qualify them to become teachers of that Stage:
i) Foundational Stage Specialization (for teaching Pre-School to Grade 2)
ii) Preparatory Stage Specialization (for teaching Grades 3 to Grade 5)
iii) Middle Stage Specialization (for teaching Grades 6 to Grade 8)
iv) Secondary Stage Specialization (for teaching Grades 9 to Grade 12)
A list of participating institutions is given in Appendix 1.
1.4. Role of NTA
The role of NTA is confined to the registration of candidates, the conduct of the test, hosting
answer keys, inviting challenges, finalizing answer keys, preparing and declaring results,
hosting Scorecards, and handing over the score data to the participating Universities/
Institutions/ Government Colleges.
Merit list will be prepared by the aforesaid participating Universities/ Institutions/
Government Colleges, they may conduct their individual counselling based on the scorecard
of NCET 2024 provided by NTA.
The letters/e-mails/grievances/queries/RTI applications/Court cases pertaining to
admission related matters/procedures will not be entertained by NTA. The same may
be addressed to the concerned University/ Institutions/ Government Colleges.
14

--- Page 17 ---
(cid:147)In order to maintain uniform standards for Teacher Education, the admission to
pre-service teacher preparation programmes shall be through suitable subject and
aptitude test conducted by the National Testing Agency and shall be standardized
keeping in view the linguistic and cultural diversity of the country(cid:148).
(NEP, Para 15.7)
The 4-year integrated B.Ed. will be a dual-major holistic bachelor(cid:146)s degree, in
Education as well as a specialized subject (such as language, history, music,
mathematics, computer science, chemistry, economics, art, physical-education, etc.).
Beyond the teaching of cutting-edge pedagogy, the teacher education will include
grounding in sociology, history, science, psychology, early childhood care and
education, foundational literacy and numeracy, knowledge of India and its
values/ethos/art/traditions, and more.
(NEP 2020: 15.5)
 Details of 4 Year ITEP offered by Universities/Institutions is available at the
NTA, NCTE and respective University/Institutions website.
 Candidates are advised to keep visiting the NTA, NCTE and
Universities/Institutions website in which they are applying to, for the latest
updates/public notices/notifications/announcements to be issued from time to
time regarding the NCET (cid:150) 2024 for 4-Year Integrated Teacher Education
Programme (ITEP).
 National Common Entrance Test (NCET) (cid:150) 2024 is meant for Entry/Admission
to ITEP offered by NCTE recognized Central/State Universities, IITs, NITs,
RIEs and Government Colleges for the Academic Year 2024-25.
15

--- Page 18 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150) 2
EXAMINATION SCHEME
2.1. Mode of Examination:
The NCET 2024 will completely be conducted in Computer Based Test (CBT) mode.
2.2. Medium of Examination:
Medium of the Question Papers: Drawing from the National Education Policy (NEP), the
NCET 2024 will be conducted in English, Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada,
Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu, and Urdu.
S. No. Language Examination Centres
1. English All Examination Centres
2. English and Hindi All Examination Centres in India
3. English and Assamese Examination Centres in Assam
4. English and Bengali Examination Centres in West Bengal, Tripura, and
Andaman & Nicobar Islands
5. English and Gujarati Examination Centres in Gujarat, Daman & Diu,
Dadra & Nagar Haveli
6. English and Kannada Examination Centres in Karnataka
7. English and Malayalam Examination Centres in Kerala and Lakshadweep
8. English and Marathi Examination Centres in Maharashtra
9. English and Odia Examination Centres in Odisha
10. English and Punjabi Examination Centres in Punjab, Chandigarh, and
Delhi/New Delhi (including Faridabad, Ghaziabad,
Gurugram, Meerut, Noida/Greater Noida)
11. English and Tamil Examination Centres in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry,
and Andaman & Nicobar Islands
12. English and Telugu Examination Centres in Andhra Pradesh and
Telangana
13. English and Urdu All Examination Centres in India
The option of language for Question Paper should be exercised while filling up the Application
Form online and it cannot be changed at a later stage.
Please note that for the correctness of the questions in all the question papers, the English version
will be taken as the final.
2.3. Scheme of Examination
16

--- Page 19 ---
Subject combinations for each paper, type of questions in each paper, and mode of
examination are given in the table below:
Section Subjects/ Tests Questions to be Attempted
 02 different Language papers are to
There are 38 different languages.
be chosen.
Any two languages need to be
Section 1  Each language paper will have 23
chosen.
questions out of which 20 questions
Language 1 and Language 2.
need to be attempted.
26 Domain-specific subjects are
 03 Domain Specific subjects are to be
being offered under this section. A
Section 2 (cid:150) chosen.
candidate may choose any three
Domain Specific  Each domain-specific subject will
subjects as desired by the
Subjects have 28 questions out of which 25
applicable University/
questions need to be attempted.
Universities/ Institution.
This is a mandatory section.
Section 3 -
The General Test will have 28 questions out of which 25 questions need to be
General Test
attempted.
Section 4 (cid:150) This is a mandatory section.
Teaching Teaching Aptitude will have 23 questions out of which 20 questions need to be
Aptitude attempted.
Note:
1. In total, there will be 160 questions to be attempted out of 181 questions. There will be a choice
of 03 questions in each subject (language/Domain-specific subject/Teaching Aptitude/General
Test).
2. The examination may be conducted on multiple days in two shifts, depending on the number
of Candidates and Subject choices.
2.4. The pattern of Question Paper:
All questions will be Objective type Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs).
S. No. Test paper Total Total questions To be chosen from
Questions to be attempted
1. Language 1 23 20 To be chosen from Section 1
(38 languages).
2. Language 2 23 20 Other than Language 1 in
Section 1.
3. Teaching Aptitude 23 20 Compulsory
4. General Test 28 25 Compulsory
5. Domain Specific Subject 1 28 25 To be chosen from Section 2
(26 Domain-Specific subjects)
6. Domain Specific Subject 2 28 25 Other than Domain-Specific
Subject 1 from Section 2.
7. Domain Specific Subject 3 28 25 Other than Domain-Specific
Subjects 1 and 2 from Section
2.
Total Questions 181 160
2.5. Tests / Subject covered under NCET 2024
The list of Languages, Domain Specific Subjects, and General Test covered in NCET 2024
17

--- Page 20 ---
is given in the following table:
SECTION Code Name
101 English Language and Literature
102 Hindi Language and Literature / िहंदी भाषा और सािह(cid:194)य
103 Assamese
104 Bengali
105 Gujarati
106 Kannada
107 Malayalam
108 Marathi
109 Odia
110 Punjabi
111 Tamil
112 Telugu
113 Urdu
114 English for Communication
115 Hindi for Communication / संचार के िलए िहंदी
201 Arabic
202 Bodo
203 Chinese
Section 1 204 Dogri
(38 Languages)
205 French
206 German
207 Italian
208 Japanese
209 Kashmiri
210 Konkani
211 Maithili
212 Manipuri
213 Nepali
214 Persian
215 Russian
216 Santhali
217 Sindhi
218 Spanish
219 Tibetan
220 Sanskrit
221 Garo
222 Khasi
223 Pali
301 Accountancy/Book Keeping
Section 2 302 Agriculture
(26 Domain- 303 Anthropology
18

--- Page 21 ---
SECTION Code Name
Specific Subjects) 304 Biology/Biological Studies/Biotechnology/Biochemistry
305 Business Studies
306 Chemistry
307 Environmental Studies
308 Computer Science/Informatics Practices
309 Economics/Business Economics
310 Engineering Graphics
311 Entrepreneurship
312 Fine Arts/Visual Arts (Sculpture/Painting)/ Commercial Art
313 Geography/ Geology
314 History
315 Home Science
316 Knowledge Tradition-Practices India
317 Legal Studies
318 Mass Media/Mass Communication
319 Mathematics / Applied Mathematics
320 Performing Arts
321 Physical Education/National Cadet Corps(NCC)/ Yoga
322 Physics
323 Political Science
324 Psychology
325 Sanskrit
326 Sociology
Section 3
327 Teaching Aptitude
(Mandatory)
Section 4
501 General Test
(Mandatory)
2.6. Duration of Test:
The examination will be conducted on multiple days in two (02) shifts per day. Each shift will
be of 180 minutes.
Note: Compensatory time for PwBD Candidates of 20 minutes for each hour examination will be
given.
Note:
The examination may be conducted on multiple days in three shifts, depending on the number
of Candidates and Subject choices.
19

--- Page 22 ---
2.7. Syllabus of Test:
Language - Language to be tested through Reading Comprehension, Literary
Aptitude, and Vocabulary.
Domain Subject and Teaching Aptitude -As given on the NTA website
https://ncet.samarth.ac.in
General Test-General Knowledge, Current Affairs, General Mental Ability,
Syllabus
Numerical Ability, Quantitative Reasoning (Simple application of basic
mathematical concepts arithmetic/algebra geometry/mensuration/stat),
Logical and Analytical Reasoning
Teaching Aptitude: Topics related to the teaching of science, Arts, Mathematics,
Performing Arts, Languages, etc.
The syllabus for the subjects is available on the NTA website https://ncet.samarth.ac.in
20

--- Page 23 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150) 3
ELIGIBILITY AND NCTE RECOGNIZED INSTITUTION
3.1. Eligibility
For appearing in the NCET 2024, there is no age limit for the candidates. The candidates
who have passed the class 12 /equivalent examination or are appearing in 2024 irrespective
of their age can appear in the NCET 2024 examination. However, the candidates will be
required to fulfill the age criteria (if any) of the University / Institution / Government
College to which they are desirous of taking admission.
3.2. List of Qualifying Examinations (QE)
i. The final examination of the 10+2 system, conducted by any recognized Central/ State
Board, such as the Central Board of Secondary Education, New Delhi; Council for the
Indian School Certificate Examinations, New Delhi; etc.
ii. Intermediate or two-year Pre-University examination conducted by a recognized
Board/ University.
iii. Final examination of the two-year course of the Joint Services Wing of the National
Defence Academy
iv. Senior Secondary School Examination conducted by the National Institute of Open
Schooling with a minimum of five subjects.
v. Any Public School/ Board/ University examination in India or any foreign country is
recognized as equivalent to the 10+2 system by the Association of Indian
Universities (AIU).
vi. Higher Secondary Certificate Vocational Examination.
vii. Candidates who have completed the Class 12 (or equivalent) examination outside India
or from a Board not specified above should produce a certificate from the Association
of Indian Universities (AIU) to the effect that the examination they have passed is
equivalent to the Class 12 Examination.
3.3. Year of Appearance in Qualifying Examination
For the year of appearance in the Class 12 / equivalent examination, relevant conditions of
Central/State Universities/Institutions which also include IITs, NITs, RIEs, and
Government Colleges (as applicable) will be applied. The candidate must ensure his
eligibility from the website of respective Central/State Universities/Institutions which also
include IITs, NITs, RIEs, and Government Colleges
21

--- Page 24 ---
3.4. NCTE Recognized Universities/Institutions
Region-wise HEIs (Central/State Universities/Institutions including IITs, NITs, RIEs) for
4-Year Integrated Teacher Education Programme. A list of all participating Central/State
Universities/Institutions including IITs, NITs, RIEs, and Government Colleges for the
Academic Session 2024-25 is given in Appendix 1.
S. Regional Committee Number of Unit Intakes
No. Recognized (Unit Value = 50)
Institutions /
Universities
1. Northern Regional Committee 25 36 2550
2. Eastern Regional Committee 12 11 1150
3. Western Regional Committee 14 15 1400
4. Southern Regional Committee 13 17 1000
Total 64 79 6100
Note:
1. For admission in Central/State Universities/Institutions which also include IITs, NITs, and
RIEs through NCET 2024, the existing policies regarding quota, category, relaxation,
reservations, qualification, subject combinations, preferences, etc. of the respective
University / Institution / Government College shall be applicable.
2. As the eligibility criteria for admission may be unique for every University/Institution, the
candidates are advised to visit the University website to which they are applying for their
respective programs.
3. Candidates are advised to satisfy themselves before applying that they possess the eligibility
criteria laid down by the University they are applying to.
4. Mere appearance in the Entrance Test or securing passing marks on the test does not entitle
a candidate to be considered for admission to the Programme unless he/she fulfills the
Programme-wise eligibility conditions of the University they are applying to.
22

--- Page 25 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150) 4
RESERVATIONS
4.1. Indian nationals belonging to certain categories are admitted under the seats reserved for
them in
accordance with the rules prescribed by the Government of India.
However, in the case of the Central Universities, the reservation policy of the respective
University shall be applicable.
4.2. Provisions relating to Persons with Disability (PwD)
(a) Guidelines for conducting written examination for Persons with Benchmark Disabilities above
40% vide letter dated 29 August 2018 from the Ministry of Social Justice and
Empowerment
Provisions relating to Persons with Disability (PwD):
As per Section 2(t) of the RPwD Act, (cid:147)Persons with Disability (PwD)(cid:148) means a person with a
long-term physical, mental, intellectual, or sensory impairment which, in interaction with
barriers, hinders his full and effective participation in society equally with others.
According to Section 2(r) of the RPwD Act, 2016, (cid:147)persons with benchmark disabilities(cid:148)
means a person with not less than forty percent (40%) of a specified disability where the
specified disability has not been defined in measurable terms and includes a person with
disability where specified disability has been defined in measurable terms, as certified by the
certifying authority.
Facilities for PwBD candidates to appear in the exam
As per the guidelines issued by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities
(Divyangjan) under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment issued from time to time
on the subject: (cid:147)Written Examination for Persons with Benchmark Disabilities(cid:148), for the
candidate with one of the benchmark disabilities [as defined in Section 2(r) of RPwD Act,
2016], holding a Disability Certificate in the prescribed format in the Rights of Person with
Disabilities Rules, 2017
(https://upload.indiacode.nic.in/showfile?actid=AC_CEN_25_54_00002_201649_1517807328299&type=rule&filename=Rules_notifi
ed_15.06.pdf ).
a. The facility of a Scribe, in case he/she has a physical limitation and a scribe is essential
to write the examination on his/her behalf, being so certified in the aforesaid format by a
CMO/Civil Surgeon/ Medical Superintendent of a Government Health Care Institution.
b. Compensatory time of one hour for examination of three hours duration, whether such
candidate uses the facility of Scribe or not.
Services of a Scribe
As per the office memorandum of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (Reference:
F.No. 34-02/2015-DD-III dated August 29, 2018), the PwD candidates who are visually
23

--- Page 26 ---
impaired OR have a disability in the upper limbs OR have lost fingers/hands thereby
preventing them from properly operating the Computer Based Test platform may avail the
services of a scribe (amanuensis).
The scribe will help the Candidate in reading the questions and/or keying in the answers as
per the directions of the Candidate. A scribe will NEITHER explain the questions NOR suggest
any solutions.
PwBD candidates who desire to avail the services of a scribe need to opt for this during the
online registration of NCET (cid:150) 2024.
It is to be noted that the Scribe will be provided by the National Testing Agency (NTA) if
requested.
If it is found at any stage that a candidate has availed the services of a scribe and/or availed
the compensatory time but does not possess the extent of disability that warrants the use of a
scribe and/or grant of compensatory time, the candidate will be excluded from the process of
evaluation, ranking, counselling, and admission. In case such a candidate has already been
admitted to any Institution, the admission of the candidate will be cancelled.
The NTA does not guarantee any change in the category or sub-category (PwD status) after the
submission of the Online Application Form, and in any case, no change will be entertained by NTA
after the declaration of NTA Score for NCET 2024. The category/sub-category (PwD status) entered
in the NCET Database by the candidate may be used by the participating University / Institution /
Organization). Therefore, the candidates are advised to fill in the category/sub-category column very
carefully.
Note:
1. The minimum degree of disability should be 40% (Benchmark Disability) in order to
be eligible for availing reservation for persons with specified disability.
2. The extent of (cid:147)specified disability(cid:148) in a person shall be assessed in accordance with the
(cid:147)Guidelines for the purpose of assessing the extent of specified disability in a person
included under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (49 of 2016)(cid:148)
notified in the Gazette of India by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment
[Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan)] on 4 January
2018.
3. No change in the category will be entertained after the last date specified by NTA for
NCET 2024 Registration.
Candidates must note that the benefit of reservation will be given to them subject to verification of
documents. If it is discovered at any stage that a candidate has used a false/fake/incorrect document
or has furnished false, incorrect, or incomplete information, in order to avail the benefit of
reservation, then such a candidate shall be excluded from all admission processes. In case such a
candidate has already been given admission, the admission shall stand cancelled.
4.2.2 (b) Guidelines for conducting written examination for persons with specified disabilities
24

--- Page 27 ---
covered under the definition of Section 2(s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under
the definition of Section 2(r) of the said Act, i.e. persons having less than 40% disability
and having difficulty in writing
I. These guidelines may be called Guidelines for conducting written examinations for persons
with specified disabilities covered under the definition of Section 2(s) of the RPwD Act, 2016
but not covered under the definition of Section 2(r) of the said Act, i.e. persons having less
than 40% disability and having difficulty in writing.
II. The facility of scribe and/or compensatory time shall be granted solely to those having
difficulty in writing subject to the production of a certificate to the effect that the person
concerned has limitation to write and that scribe is essential to write the examination on his/her
behalf from the competent medical authority of a Government healthcare institution as per
Performa.
III. The medical authority for the purpose of certification as mentioned in point (II) above should
be a multi-member authority comprising the following: -
i. Chief Medical Officer/Civil Surgeon/Chief District Medical Officer...Chairperson
ii. Orthopedic/PMR specialist
iii. Neurologist, if available*
iv. Clinical Psychologist/Rehabilitation Psychologist/ Psychiatrist/Special Educator
v. Occupational therapist, if available*
vi. Any other expert based on the condition of the candidate may be nominated by the
Chairperson. (* the Chief Medical Officer/Civil Surgeon/Chief District Medical Officer may
make full efforts for inclusion of neurologists, occupational therapists from the nearest
District or the Medical College/Institute if the same is not available in the District)"
IV. Compensatory time of not less than 20 minutes per hour of the examination should be allowed
for persons who are eligible for getting a scribe. In case the duration of the examination is less
than an hour, then the duration of the compensatory time should be allowed on a pro-rata basis.
Compensatory time should not be less than 5 minutes and should be in the multiple of 5.
4.3 In the case of the Institutes run/aided/recognized by State Governments, the reservation policy of the
respective State Governments shall be applicable.
Note: For admission in Universities through NCET 2024, the existing policies regarding
reservations, relaxation, quota, category, qualification, subject combinations, preferences etc. of the
respective University shall be applicable.
The NTA does not entertain any change in the category or sub-category (PwBD status) after the
submission of the Online Application Form, and in any case, no change will be entertained by NTA
after the declaration of NTA Score for NCET 2024. The category/sub-category (PwBD status) entered
in the NCET 2024 Application Form by the candidate will be used for the NCET 2024. Therefore, the
candidates are advised to fill in the category/sub-category column very carefully.
25

--- Page 28 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150) 5
CHOICE OF CITIES
The Cities where the NCET 2024 will be conducted are given in Appendix III. While applying,
candidates have to select any two cities of their choice. Efforts will be made to allot the city of
examination to the candidates in the order of preference opted by them in their online Application
Forms. However, due to administrative/logistic reasons, a different city can be allotted.
Choice of Centre Cities will be limited to the State of Permanent Address or State of Present
Address only.
In case, there are very few candidates from a City, the NTA reserves the right to merge one, two,
or more cities.
The decision of the NTA regarding the allotment of the City/Centre shall be final. No further
correspondence or request shall be entertained in this regard.
While filling up the Online Application Form, candidates should select any two Convenient Cities
from Appendix I as their Choice of Cities for the exam Centre in order of their priority.
For convenience, the candidates may select their own city or neighboring cities in their State of
Residence only and not for far away cities in other States. NTA will not be responsible for any
inconvenience due to the incorrect selection of cities by the candidates.
In case, the number of candidates opting for a city as a centre with a regional language is less than a
certain minimum, candidates may be allotted a Centre in another city irrespective of the city opted
by the candidates for appearing in the examination.
Though every effort will be made to allot a Centre in one of the cities selected by the candidate,
the NTA reserves the right to allot a centre in a city other than the candidate(cid:146)s choice.
Allotment of Centres will be done mostly in one of the preferred cities of the candidates and there
will be no human intervention.
Note: All efforts will be made by NTA to consider the comfort and convenience of candidates, including
PwD Candidates while allotting Centres.
26

--- Page 29 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150)6
ADMIT CARD
e-Admit Card
The e-Admit Card would be issued provisionally to the candidates through the NTA website:
https://ncet.samarth.ac.in/, subject to the fulfillment of the eligibility conditions and receipt of the
prescribed application fee by NTA.
The candidate has to download the Admit Card from the NTA website. The candidate will appear
in the examination at the given Centre on the date and shift/timing as indicated in his/her e-Admit
Card.
No candidate will be allowed to appear at the examination Centre, on the date and shift/time
other than that allotted to him/her in his/her Admit Card.
In case a candidate is unable to download his/her Admit Card from the website, he/she should
approach the NTA Help Line Number: 011-40759000 or 011-69227700 between 10.00 A.M. and
5.00 P.M.
The candidates are advised to read the instructions on the Admit Card carefully and strictly
follow them during the examination.
In case of any discrepancy in the particulars of the candidate or his/her photograph and signature
shown in the e-Admit Card and Confirmation Page, the candidate may immediately approach the
NTA Help Line between 10.00 A.M. and 5.00 P.M. In such a case, the candidate would appear
in the examination with the already downloaded Admit Card. However, NTA will take
necessary action to make corrections in the record later.
The date of downloading the Admit Card for the exam will be announced on the NTA website
(https://ncet.samarth.ac.in/)
Note:
a. The Candidates may please note that Admit Cards will not be sent by post.
b. In no case, the duplicate Admit Card for the National Common Entrance Test - 2024 will
be issued at the Examination Centres.
c. The candidates must not mutilate the Admit Card or change any entry made therein.
d. Candidates are advised to preserve their Admit Cards in good condition for future
reference.
e. No Admit Card shall be issued to the candidates whose applications are found to be
incomplete for any reasons (including indistinct/ doubtful photographs/unsigned
Applications) or who do not fulfill the eligibility criteria for the examination.
f. Issue of Admit Cards, however, shall not necessarily mean acceptance of eligibility which
shall be further scrutinized at subsequent stages of the admission process.
27

--- Page 30 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150) 7
SCHEDULE OF EXAMINATION
12 June 2024
Date of Examination
(cid:147)Computer Based Test (CBT)(cid:148) mode
Mode of Examination
Shift 1 Shift 2
Shift
Timing of Examination 09:00 A.M. to 12:00 Noon 03:00 P.M. to 06:00 P.M.
Duration of Examination 180 minutes 180 minutes
Note: Compensatory time for PwBD Candidates, who are eligible for Scribe (whether such candidate
uses the facility of Scribe or not) 20 minutes for each hour examination will be extended as per Govt.
Guidelines. Such extra time will be extended test-wise and not in the aggregate duration of the
morning/afternoon slot.
1. The examination will be held on multiple days, in two shifts in a day.
2. Though the tests are scheduled in 02 shifts, as the case may be, each test within each shift
is distinct and independent of the other.
3. A candidate has the option to choose the components of the test only. However, the
allotment of candidates to the Shift will be based on the options exercised and technical
and administrative considerations.
4. Admit Cards will be issued for each shift based on the components opted for by him/her.
No request for a change of date/shift will be entertained.
5. Both two shifts will start at a specified time. Candidates have to report for the shift/s as
per the time stated in their respective Admit Cards.
28

--- Page 31 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150) 8
PARTICULARS TO BE FILLED IN THE ONLINE APPLICATION FORM
The Columns to be filled in the Online Application Form of NCET 2024 are as follows. All candidates shall fill up
the information as given below:
S. No. Page Section Fields Remarks
Candidate’s Name (As per class X or
1
Equivalent Certificate)
2 Father’s Name
3 Mother’s Name
Mandatory if Father’s &
4 Guardian’s Name
Mother’s Name is blank
5 Candidate’s Date of Birth Select from dropdown
Personal Details
6 Gender Select from dropdown
7 Nationality Select from dropdown
Only Visible If Nationality
8 Citizen of the Country
is Foreign (Other than OCI)
9 Identity Type Select from dropdown
10 Valid Identification Number
11 Premises/House No./Name
12 Sub Locality Optional
13 Locality Optional
14 Country Select from dropdown
15 State/UT Select from dropdown
Select from the list based on
16 District State (State-District details
Registration Present Address attached)
Form
17 Pin code
18 Email Address
19 Confirm Email Address
Mobile Number (without country code
20
or 0)
21 Confirm Mobile Number
22 Alternate Contact Number Optional
23 Premises/House No./Name
24 Sub Locality Optional
25 Locality Optional
26 Country Select from dropdown
Permanent Address
27 State/UT Select from dropdown
Select from the list based on
28 District State (State-District details
attached)
29 Pin code
30 Password (Minimum 8 characters) e.g. Test@123
31 Confirm Password
Choose Password
32 Security Question
33 Security Answer
To be entered as displayed
34 Security Pin Security Pin
on the Screen
29

--- Page 32 ---
S. No. Page Section Fields Remarks
Candidate’s Name (As per class X or
35
Equivalent Certificate)
36 Candidate’s Date of Birth Select from dropdown
37 Gender Select from dropdown
38 Nationality Select from dropdown
Only Visible If Nationality
39 Citizen of the Country
is Foreign (Other than OCI)
40 Category Select from dropdown
41 Are you a PwBD Candidate? Yes/No
42 Type of Disability Only Visible if PwBD is Yes
Only Visible if Type of
43 Other Types of Disability
Disability is Other.
Do you have a benchmark disability of
44 Only Visible if PwBD is Yes
40% or more
Do you need a Scribe (As per the
45 criteria given in the Information Only Visible if PwBD is Yes
Bulletin)?
46 Father’s Name
47 Personal Details Father’s Qualification Select from dropdown
48 Father’s Occupation Select from dropdown
49 Mother’s Name
50 Mother’s Qualification Select from dropdown
51 Mother’s Occupation Select from dropdown
52 Guardian’s Name Optional
53 Annual Family Income Select from dropdown
54 Are You Twin? Yes/No
Application
Name of the other Brother/Sister as only visible if ’Are you a
55 Form
per Class X Certificate Twin’ is yes
Roll Number of Class 10th or its only visible if ’Are you a
56
equivalent of the Twin Twin’ is yes
57 Domicile State Select from dropdown
58 Are you Diabetic? Select from dropdown
59 Place of Residence Select from dropdown
60 Mode of Preparation Select from dropdown
61 Other Modes of Preparation
Medium of Study in Qualifying
62 Select from dropdown
Examination
63 Premises No./Name
64 Sub Locality Optional
65 Locality Optional
66 Country Select from dropdown
67 Present Address State/UT Select from dropdown
Select from the list based on
68 District State (State-District details
attached)
69 Pin code
70 Premises No./Name
71 Sub Locality Optional
72 Locality Optional
73 Permanent Address Country Select from dropdown
74 State/UT Select from dropdown
Select from the list based on
75 District
State (State-District details
30

--- Page 33 ---
S. No. Page Section Fields Remarks
attached)
76 pin code
Do you belong Below the Poverty
77 Yes/No
Line?
78 Are you a Kashmiri Migrant? Yes/No
Ward of Defence Personnel / Ex-
79 Yes/No
Servicemen
80 Claim for NCC Quota Yes/No
81 Claim for Sports Quota Yes/No
Select from dropdown Only
82 Level of Sports Achievement visible if Claims for Sports
Quota is selected Yes
Are you a ward of a University
83 Yes/No
Employee?
Is your Father an Employee of the Only Visible if Ward of
84
University University Employee is Yes
Only Visible if Ward of
85 Name of the University
University Employee is Yes
Only Visible if Ward of
University Employee is Yes
86 Father’s Employee ID
and Is your Father Employee
of University is yes
Only Visible if Ward of
Name of the Department/Affiliated University Employee is Yes
87
College and Is your Father Employee
of University is yes
Only Visible if Ward of
University Employee is Yes
88 Other Quota and Father’s Designation and Is your Father Employee
Category of University is yes
Only Visible if Ward of
University Employee is Yes
89 Father’s Employment Status
and Is your Father Employee
of University is yes
Is your Mother an Employee of the Only Visible if Ward of
90
University University Employee is Yes
Only Visible if Ward of
University Employee is Yes
91 Name of the University and Is your Mother
Employee of University is
yes
Only Visible if Ward of
University Employee is Yes
92 Mother’s Employee ID and Is your Mother
Employee of University is
yes
Only Visible if Ward of
University Employee is Yes
Name of the Department/Affiliated
93 and Is your Mother
College
Employee of University is
yes
Only Visible if Ward of
University Employee is Yes
94 Mother’s Designation and Is your Mother
Employee of University is
yes
31

--- Page 34 ---
S. No. Page Section Fields Remarks
Only Visible if Ward of
University Employee is Yes
95 Mother’s Employment Status and Is your Mother
Employee of University is
yes
96 Result Status Select From dropdown
97 Passing Year Select From dropdown
10th or Equivalent (pre-
98 Qualifying Exam
filled)
99 Place of Schooling Rural/Urban
100 Type of School/College Select From dropdown
101 Other Types of School/College
102 Qualifying Examination Country Select From dropdown
103 Qualifying Examination State Select From dropdown
Select from the list based on
104 Qualifying Examination District State (State-District details
attached)
105 Qualification Details Board Name Select From dropdown
(Class 10th or Equivalent) Only Visible if Board Name
106 Other Board Name selected OTHER from the
dropdown
107 School/College Name Address
108 School/College PIN code
109 Roll Number
110 Result Mode Grade/Percentage
111 Maximum Grade Point
Visible if Result Mode
112 CGPA Obtained
Selected Grade
113 CGPA Equivalent Percentage
114 Maximum Marks
Visible if Result Mode
115 Marks Obtained
Selected Percentage
116 Percentage
117 Result Status Select From dropdown
118 Passing Year Select From dropdown
12th or equivalent (pre-
119 Qualifying Exam
filled)
120 Place of Schooling Rural/Urban
121 Type of School/College Select From dropdown
Only Visible if Type of
122 Other Types of School/College School/College is selected
Other.
123 Qualifying Examination Country Select From dropdown
124 Qualifying Examination State Select From dropdown
Qualification Details
Only Visible if the state is
125 (Class 12th or Equivalent) Qualifying Examination District
selected.
126 Board Name Select From dropdown
Only Visible if Board Name
127 Other Board Name selected OTHER from the
dropdown
128 School/College Name Address
129 School/College pin code
130 Roll Number
131 Result Mode Grade/Percentage
132 Maximum Grade Point Visible if Result Mode
133 CGPA Obtained Selected Grade
32

--- Page 35 ---
S. No. Page Section Fields Remarks
134 CGPA Equivalent Percentage
135 Maximum Marks
Visible if Result Mode
136 Marks Obtained
Selected Percentage
137 Percentage
138 Centre City Preference 1 Select Exam Centre City
Examination Centre from the dropdown, based
139 Details Centre City Preference 2 on permanent and contact
address state/country
140 Select University / Institution Name Select From dropdown
Institution /
Only Visible if the
University/Programme
141 Select Programme Name University / Institution
Selection
Name is selected.
142 Test Paper / Subject 1 Teaching Aptitude (default)
To be chosen as per the
143 Medium of Test Paper / Subject 1
options available
144 Test Paper / Subject 2 General Test (default)
To be chosen as per the
145 Medium of Test Paper / Subject 2
options available
146 Language 1 / Subject 3 Select from dropdown
Select from the dropdown
147 Language 2 / Subject 4
(other than Language 1)
148 Test Paper / Subject 5 Select from dropdown
Test Paper / Subject(s)
Visible if Test Paper /
Selection
149 Medium of Test Paper / Subject 5 Subject 5 is Domain
specific.
150 Test Paper / Subject 6 Select from dropdown
Visible if Test Paper /
151 Medium of Test Paper / Subject 6 Subject 6 is Domain
specific.
152 Test Paper / Subject 7 Select from dropdown
Visible if Test Paper /
153 Medium of Test Paper / Subject 7 Subject 7 is Domain
specific.
The size of the scanned
Candidate(cid:146)s Photograph (with 80%
154 photograph should be
face without mask) (jpg, jpeg)
between 10 kb to 200 kb
The size of the scanned
155 Candidate(cid:146)s Signature (jpg, jpeg) signature should be between
Documents
Upload Images/Pdf 4 kb to 30 kb
Upload
Person With Benchmark Disability
(PwBD) Certificate (pdf) (On The size of the scanned copy
156 Selection of PwBD Candidate with of certificates should be in
benchmark disability 40% or more as pdf between 50kb to 300kb
yes )
33

--- Page 36 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150) 9
IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE CANDIDATES
1. Candidates are advised to report at the Examination Center well in time i.e. 2 hours before
commencement of the examination.
2. Candidates should take their seats immediately after the opening of the Examination Hall. If
the candidates do not report in time due to any reason i.e. traffic jam, train/bus delay, etc, they
are likely to miss some of the important instructions to be announced in the Examination
Rooms/Halls. The NTA shall not be responsible for any delay.
3. The candidate must show, on-demand, the Admit Card downloaded/printed from the NTA
website for admission in the examination room/hall. The Test Centre Staff on duty is
authorized to verify the identity of candidates and may take steps to verify and confirm the
identity credentials. Candidates are requested to extend their full cooperation. A candidate
who does not possess a valid Admit Card and authorized Photo ID shall not be permitted to
take the examination under any circumstances by the Centre Superintendent.
4. A seat indicating Roll Number will be allotted to each candidate. Candidates should find and
sit in their allocated seats only. In case a candidate ventures to change his/her seat and does
not sit on the seat allotted to him/her could face cancellation of candidature. No plea would
be entertained in this regard.
5. The candidate should ensure that the Question Paper available on the computer is as per
his/her opted subject indicated in the Admit Card. In case, the subject of the Question Paper
is other than his/her opted subject, the same may be brought to the notice of the Invigilator
concerned.
6. The candidates may approach the Centre Superintendent/Invigilator in the room for any
technical assistance, first aid emergency, or any other information during the course of the
examination. For any queries or issues regarding the Computer-based Based Test, the
candidates may contact the Helpline Numbers available on the NTA website.
7. In case a candidate, by furnishing false information, appears in more than one shift/date, his
candidature will be cancelled and his result will not be declared.
8. For those who are unable to appear on the scheduled date of the test for any reason, a re-test
shall not be held by the NTA under any circumstances.
Note: Candidates shall appear at their own cost at the Centre on the Date, Tests/ Subjects, and
Timing of Examination as indicated in their Admit Card issued by the NTA. Under no
circumstances the choice of cities for the Centre and Timing of Examination provided in the
Admit Card be changed.
34

--- Page 37 ---
Candidates MUST bring the following documents on the day of examination at the test centre.
Candidates who will not bring these will not be allowed to sit in the examination.
a. Print copy of Admit Card along with Self Declaration (Undertaking) downloaded from
the NTA Website (a clear printout on A4 size paper) duly filled in.
b. One passport size photograph (same as uploaded on the Online Application Form) for
pasting on the specific space in the Attendance Sheet at Centre during the examination.
c. Any one of the authorized photo IDs (must be original, valid, and non-expired) (cid:150) School
Identity Card/ PAN card/ Driving License/ Voter ID/ Passport/ Aadhaar Card (With
photograph)/E-Aadhaar with photograph/ Ration Card with photograph/ Class 12 Board
Admit Card with photograph/ Bank Passbook with Photograph.
d. PwBD certificate issued by the authorized medical officer, if claiming the relaxation under
PwBD category
OR
PwBD Certificate regarding physical limitation in an examination to write as per
Annexures given in Information Bulletin, if claiming the relaxation under PwBD
category.
Rough Work
All calculations/writing work is to be done only in the Rough Sheets provided at the Test Centre
in the Examination Room/Hall and on completion of the test, candidates must hand over the Rough
Sheets to the Invigilator on duty in the Room/Hall
35

--- Page 38 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150) 10
UNFAIR MEANS PRACTICES AND BREACH OF EXAMINATION RULES
10.1. DEFINITION
Unfair Means practice is an activity that allows a candidate to gain an unfair advantage
over other candidates. It includes, but is not limited to:
a) Being in possession of any item or article which has been prohibited or can be used for
unfair practices including any stationery item, communication device, accessories,
eatable items, ornaments, or any other material or information relevant or not relevant
to the examination in the paper concerned;
b) Using someone to write an examination (impersonation) or preparing material for
copying;
c) Breaching examination rules or any direction issued by NTA in connection with the
NCET 2024 examination from time to time;
d) Assisting other candidates to engage in malpractices, giving or receiving assistance of
any kind directly or indirectly or attempting to do so;
e) Contacting or communicating or trying to do so with any person, other than the
Examination Staff, during the examination time in the Examination Centre;
f) Threatening any of the officials connected with the conduct of the examination or
threatening any of the candidates;
g) Using or attempting to use any other undesirable method or means in connection with
the examination;
h) Manipulation and fabrication of online documents viz. Admit Card, Rank Letter, Self-
Declaration, etc.;
i) Forceful entry in /exit from Examination Centre/Hall;
j) Use or attempt to use an electronic device after entering the Examination Centre;
k) Affixing/uploading of wrong/morphed photographs/signatures on the Application
Form/Admit Card/Proforma;
l) Creating obstacles in the smooth and fair conduct of the examination.
m) Any other malpractices declared as Unfair Means by the NTA.
36

--- Page 39 ---
Note: Any candidate with more than one Application Number (more than one SCORE CARDS)
will be treated as UFM, even if found at a later stage, and strict action will be taken against that
Candidate.
10.2. PUNISHMENT FOR USING UNFAIR MEANS AND PRACTICES
If a candidate indulges in any of the above or similar practices during the course of, before,
or after the examination, he/she shall be deemed to have used unfair practices and thus shall
be booked under the UNFAIR MEANS (UFM) case. The candidate would be debarred
for 3 years in the future and shall also be liable for criminal action and /or any other
action as deemed fit.
10.3. CANCELLATION OF RESULT
The result of NCET 2024 of the candidate(s) who indulges in Unfair means Practices will
be cancelled and will not be declared. Similarly, the result of those candidates who appear
from the Centre other than the one allotted to them or allow another candidate/person to
write the exam on his behalf will be cancelled. No plea will be entertained in this regard.
37

--- Page 40 ---
CHAPTER 11
BARRED ITEMS
11.1 Barred Items
11.1.1 The candidates will be subjected to extensive and compulsory frisking before entering the
Examination Centre with the help of highly sensitive metal detectors. The candidates are
not allowed to carry the following items inside the Examination Centre under any
circumstances.
a) Any item like textual material (printed or written), bits of paper, Geometry/Pencil Box,
Plastic Pouch, Calculator, Pen, Scale, Writing Pad, Pen Drives, Eraser, Calculator, Log
Table, Electronic Pen/Scanner, etc.
b) Any communication device like Mobile Phone, Bluetooth, Earphones, Microphone, Pager,
Health Band, etc.
c) Other items like Wallet, Goggles, Handbags, Belt, Cap, etc.
d) Any Watch/Wristwatch, Bracelet, Camera, etc.
e) Any ornaments/metallic items.
f) Any food items opened or packed, water bottles, etc.
g) Any other item that could be used for unfair means, by hiding communication devices like
a microchip, camera, Bluetooth device, etc.
11.1.2 No arrangement will be made at the Centres for keeping any articles/items belonging to the
candidates.
11.1.3 The candidates wearing articles or objects of faith (customary/ cultural/ religious ) should
report at the examination centre atleast two hours before the last reporting time so that
there is enough time for proper frisking without any inconvenience to the candidate while
maintaining the sanctity of the examination. If upon screening, it is discovered that any
candidate is actually carrying a suspected device within such an item of faith, he/ she may
be asked not to take it into the examination hall.
Note: The NTA believes in the sanctity and fairness of conducting the examination, however, it also believes in
the sensitivity involved in frisking (girl) candidates and will issue comprehensive instructions accordingly to the
staff and other officials at the Examination Centres. The frisking of the female candidates will be done inside a
closed enclosure by female staff only.
38

--- Page 41 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150) 12
DISPLAY OF ANSWER KEY FOR CHALLENGE
12.1. DISPLAY OF ANSWER KEY FOR CHALLENGES
1. The NTA will display the Provisional Answer Key of the questions on the NTA website:
https://ncet.samarth.ac.in/, with a Public Notice, issued to this effect on the said
website, to provide an opportunity to the candidates to challenge the Provisional Answer
Keys with a non-refundable online payment of ₹ 200/- per question challenged as
processing charges. The provisional Answer Keys are likely to be displayed for two to
three days.
2. Only paid challenges made during the stipulated time through the key challenge link
will be considered. Challenges without justification/evidence and those filed on any
other medium other than the prescribed link will not be considered.
3. The NTA decision on the challenges shall be final and no further communication will
be entertained. NTA will not inform the Candidates individually about the outcome of
the challenges made.
4. The subject experts will examine all the challenges received and then a final answer key
will be displayed and declared.
5. The result will be compiled based on the final answer key declared. No grievance
with regard to answer key(s) after the declaration of the result/NTA Score of NCET
2024 will be entertained.
12.2. DISPLAY OF RECORDED RESPONSES
The NTA will display the recorded responses and Question Papers attempted by the
candidates on the NTA website https://ncet.samarth.ac.in/ prior to the declaration of the
result/NTA Score. The recorded responses are likely to be displayed for two to three days.
12.3. MARKING SCHEME OF EXAMINATION
For Multiple Choice Questions: To answer a question, the candidates need to choose one option
corresponding to the correct answer or the most appropriate answer. However, if any anomaly
or discrepancy is found after the process of challenges of the key verification, it shall be
addressed in the following manner:
i. Correct answer or the most appropriate answer: Four marks (+4)
ii. Any incorrect option marked will be given minus one mark (-1).
iii. Unanswered/Marked for Review will be given no mark (0).
iv. If more than one option is found to be correct then Four marks (+4) will be awarded to
only those who have marked any of the correct options.
39

--- Page 42 ---
v. If all options are found to be correct then Four marks (+4) will be awarded to all those who
have attempted the question.
vi. If none of the options is found correct a question is found to be wrong or a question is
dropped, then all candidates who have attempted the dropped question will be given four
marks (+4) marks.
12.4. USE OF SCORES OF NCET 2024 BY OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
The scores/results of NCET 2024 may be utilized by other organizations as per their
eligibility criteria/norms/applicable regulations/guidelines/rules.
The University / Institution / Organization may admit any candidate who has appeared for NCET
2024 irrespective of the fact that the candidate has chosen that University / Institution /
Organization in the online Application Form of NCET 2024. Moreover, the candidate must
fulfill the eligibility criteria for the Course where the admission is being taken.
40

--- Page 43 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150) 13
NCET 2024 NTA Score for Admissions in Central and Other Participating
Universities / Institutions / Government Colleges
13.1. NCET 2024 NTA SCORE
a) If the examination is conducted in multi-shift papers, raw (actual) marks obtained by the
candidates in different shifts/sessions will be converted to NTA Score.
b) As per the policy, raw marks will not be given to the candidates if the examination is
conducted in multiple shifts.
c) The detailed procedure for the compilation of the NTA Score is available on the
NTA Website and also in Appendix VII of the Information Bulletin.
d) The NTA Score of NCET 2024 is valid for admission to the academic year 2024 -
25 only.
13.2. RE-EVALUATION / RE-CHECKING OF RESULT
a) The result for NCET 2024 will be processed based on the Final Answer Keys. No
grievance with regard to Answer Key(s) after the Declaration of Result of NCET 2024
will be entertained.
b) The marks obtained by a candidate will be considered further for computation of the
result of NCET 2024.
c) There shall be no re-evaluation/re-checking of the result. No correspondence in this
regard shall be entertained.
d) No Score Card will be dispatched to the candidates and the candidates are advised to
download their Score Cards for NCET 2024 from the website: https://ncet.samarth.ac.in.
13.3. ADMISSIONS
a) Merely appearing in NCET 2024 does not confer any right to the candidate for admission
to the desirous University / Institution.
b) The selection and admission are subject to fulfilling the admission criteria, eligibility,
rank in the merit list, medical fitness, verification of original documents, and such other
criteria as may be prescribed by the University.
c) Admissions are handled at the level of each of the Central/State Universities/Institutions
which also include IITs, NITs, RIEs, and Government Colleges for their respective
programs. After the declaration of the NCET 2024 result by NTA, the respective CUs
will declare the counselling/ admission schedule and merit list based on the NCET 2024
score and the other criteria of the respective University.
For all admission-related procedures/queries, the candidates are advised to refer to the
website of the applied University.
d) NTA does not have any role in the preparation of the Merit List.
41

--- Page 44 ---
CHAPTER (cid:150) 14
MISCELLANEOUS
14.1. CORRESPONDENCE WITH NTA
All the correspondence should preferably be addressed by e-mail. The email query shall be
addressed only if it is not anonymous and contains the name, postal address, and contact
number of the sender. An email containing vague or general queries and other queries as
contained in the Information Bulletin shall not be entertained. Queries shall not be entertained
from a person claiming to be representatives, associates, or officiates of the applicant
candidate. The following information shall not be revealed by NTA:
a. Internal documentation/status.
b. The internal decision-making process of NTA. Any claim/counterclaim thereof.
c. Dates and venue of internal meetings or name of the staff/officers dealing with it.
d. Any information which cannot be revealed in the opinion of NTA.
14.2. WEEDING OUT RULES
The record of National Common Entrance Test NCET 2024. would be preserved up to 90
days from the date of declaration of the result.
14.3. LEGAL JURISDICTION
All disputes pertaining to the conduct of NCET 2024. Examination including Results shall
fall within the jurisdiction of Delhi only. Further, any grievance/representation arising out
of the Result shall be entertained only when raised within 30 days from the declaration of
the result. Further, the copy of the Legal Notice or Writ Petition/Petition/Appeal/Reply may
be served to NTA only through: legal@nta.ac.in
14.4. RTI
Information uploaded on the website shall not be provided to the candidate or any other person
under R.T.I. Act, 2005. The information uploaded on the website shall remain for a specific
period only. Therefore, the candidates are advised to download the uploaded information and
keep it with them for the future. In due course of examination or the midway of process, neither
any application under the Right to Information Act, 2005 shall be entertained nor information
will be provided.
42

--- Page 45 ---
Annexure-I
Form-PwD (IV)
Disability Certificate
Certificate for persons with a disability under the RPwD Act, 2016 having less than 40% disability
Recent PP size
attested photograph
(showing face only)
of the person with
disability
This is to certify that; we have examined Mr./Ms./Mrs. (cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133). (name of the candidate), S/o /D/o
(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133), a resident of (cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(Vill/PO/PS/District/State), aged (cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133). yrs., a person
with (cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133). (nature of disability/condition), and to state that he/she has a limitation which
hampers his/her writing capability owing to his/her above condition. He/she requires the support of a scribe for
writing the examination.
2. The above candidate uses aids and assistive devices such as prosthetics & orthotics, and hearing aids (name
to be specified) which is /are essential for the candidate to appear at the examination with the assistance of a
scribe.
3. This certificate is issued only for the purpose of appearing in written examinations conducted by recruitment
agencies as well as academic institutions and is valid up to __________ (it is valid for a maximum period of
six months or less as may be certified by the medical authority)
Signature of medical authority
(Signature & Name) (Signature & Name) Signature & (Signature & (Signature &
Name) Name) Name)
Orthopedic / PMR Clinical Psychologist/ Neurologist Occupational Other
specialist Rehabilitation (if available) therapist (if Expert, as
Psychologist/Psychiatrist available) nominated
/ Special Educator by the
Chairperson
(if any)
(Signature & Name)
Chief Medical Officer/Civil Surgeon/Chief District Medical Officer(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133)Chairperson
Name of Government Hospital/Health Care Centre with Seal
Place:
Date:
43

--- Page 46 ---
Annexure-II
Letter of Undertaking for Using Own Scribe
I __________________________, a candidate with_______________________(name of the disability)
appearing for the ___________________________(name of the examination) bearing Application No.
__________________at_____________________ (name of the centre) in the District __________,
______________________________ (name of the State). My qualification is
___________________________.
I do hereby state that_________________________________ (name of the scribe) will provide the service
of scribe/reader/lab assistant for the undersigned for taking the aforesaid examination.
I do hereby undertake that his qualification is _________________________________. In case,
subsequently, it is found that his qualification is not as declared by the undersigned and is beyond my
qualification, I shall forfeit my right to the admission and claims relating thereto.
(Signature of the candidate with disability)
Place:
Date:
Photograph of Scribe
(Self-Attested Photograph)
Name of Scribe ID of the Scribe ID Number
44

--- Page 47 ---
Appendix - I
List of Central/State Universities/Institutions including IITs, NITs, RIEs, and Government
Colleges for the Academic Session 2024-25
S. State Region Name and Address of the Approved Stages Approved
No. (Territorial Higher Education Institutions Course Unit
Jurisdiction) (HEIs) (Intake)
1. HARYANA NRC Chaudhary Devi Lal University, B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Sirsa, Barnala Road, Haryana- B.Ed. (50 seats)
125055 B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
2. PUNJAB NRC Guru Nanak Dev University, B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
G.T. Road, Amritsar, Punjab- B.Ed. (50 seats)
143005 B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
B.Com. Secondary 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
3. UTTARAKHAND NRC Department of Education Birla B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Campus HNB Garhwal B.Ed. (50 seats)
University Srinagar Pauri B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Garhwal, Uttarakhand-246174 B.Ed. (50 seats)
B.Com. Secondary 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
4. UTTAR NRC Gautam Buddha University, Near B.A. Middle 1 Unit
PRADESH Kasna, Yamuna Expressway, B.Ed. (50 seats)
Dhanda, Greater Noida Gautam B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Budh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh-201312
B.Ed. (50 seats)
B.Com. Secondary 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
5. UTTAR NRC Institute Of Education B.A. Preparatory 1 Unit
PRADESH Bundelkhand University, Kanpur B.Ed. (50 seats)
Road Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh-284128 B.Sc. Preparatory 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
6. DELHI NRC Indira Gandhi National Open B.A. Secondary 2 Units
University, Maidan Garhi, Main B.Ed. (100 seats)
IGNOU Road, Neb Sarai, South B.Sc. Secondary 2 Units
Delhi, Delhi-110068
B.Ed. (100 seats)
B.Com. Secondary 2 Units
B.Ed. (100 seats)
7. DELHI NRC School Of Education Studies, Dr. B.A. Preparatory 1 Unit
B. R. Ambedkar University Delhi, B.Ed. (50 seats)
Lodhi Road, Aliganj, South Delhi, B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Delhi-110003
B.Ed. (50 seats)
8. HARYANA NRC Central University of Haryana, B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Jant-Pali, Mahendergarh-Dadri B.Ed. (50 seats)
Road, Mahindergarh, Haryana-
123031
9. UTTAR NRC Aligarh Muslim University, B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
PRADESH Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh B.Ed. (50 seats)
B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
10. HARYANA NRC Department of Education, Maharshi B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Dayanand University, Rohtak, B.Ed. (50 seats)
Haryana B.Com. Secondary 1 Unit
45

--- Page 48 ---
S. State Region Name and Address of the Approved Stages Approved
No. (Territorial Higher Education Institutions Course Unit
Jurisdiction) (HEIs) (Intake)
B.Ed. (50 seats)
11. PUNJAB NRC Dr. B R Ambedkar National B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Institute of Technology Lidhran B.Ed. (50 seats)
Bidhipur, GT Road Amritsar
Bypass Jalandhar, Punjab-144027
12. UTTARAKHAND NRC Kumaun University Sleepy Hollow, B.A. Preparatory 1 Unit
Nainital, Uttarakhand-263001 B.Ed. (50 seats)
B.Sc. Preparatory 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
B.Com. Preparatory 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
13. JAMMU AND NRC Central University of Kashmir, B.A. Middle 1 Unit
KASHMIR Tulmullah, Ganderbal, Jammu and B.Ed. (50 seats)
Kashmir-191131
14. JAMMU AND NRC Government College of Education, B.A. Preparatory 1 Unit
KASHMIR Canal Road, Jammu, Jammu And B.Ed. (50 seats)
Kashmir-180016 B.A. Foundational 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
15. DELHI NRC Mata Sundri College for Women, B.A. Middle 1 Unit
Mata Sundri Lane, New Delhi, B.Ed. (50 seats)
110002 B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
16. DELHI NRC Shyama Prasad Mukherji College B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
for Women, North Ave, West B.Ed. (50 seats)
Punjabi Bagh, Punjabi Bagh, Delhi,
110026
17. MAHARASHTRA WRC Mahatma Gandhi Antarrashtriya B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Hindi Vishwavidyalaya, Gandhi B.Ed. (50 seats)
Hills Wardha, Maharashtra-
442001
18. MADHYA WRC Regional Institute Of Education, B.Sc. Secondary 2 Units
PRADESH Bhopal, Shyamla Hills, Bhopal, B.Ed. (100 seats)
Madhya Pradesh- 462002 B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
19. RAJASTHAN WRC Regional Institute Of Education, B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Pushkar Road, Ajmer, Rajasthan- B.Ed. (50 seats)
305004 B.Sc. Secondary 2 Units
B.Ed. (100 seats)
20. MAHARASHTRA WRC SNDT Women’s University, B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Mumbai, Erandwane, Karve Road, B.Ed. (50 seats)
Haveli, Pune, Pune, Maharashtra-
411038
21. MADHYA WRC Doctor Harisingh Gour B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
PRADESH Vishwavidyalaya, University Road B.Ed. (50 seats)
Over Patharia Hills, Sagar, Madhya B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Pradesh-470003
B.Ed. (50 seats)
B.Com. Secondary 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
22. MADHYA WRC Mahatma Gandhi Chitrakoot B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
PRADESH Gramodaya Vishwavidyalaya B.Ed. (50 seats)
Rajaula, Chitrakoot Satna Road, B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Majhgawan, Satna, Madhya
B.Ed. (50 seats)
Pradesh-485334
B.Com. Secondary 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
46

--- Page 49 ---
S. State Region Name and Address of the Approved Stages Approved
No. (Territorial Higher Education Institutions Course Unit
Jurisdiction) (HEIs) (Intake)
23. RAJASTHAN WRC Central University Of Rajasthan, B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Banadrsindri, Nh8, Bandarsindri, B.Ed. (50 seats)
Kishangarh, Ajmer, Rajasthan-
305817
24. ODISHA ERC Maharaja Purnachandra B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Autonomous College, Takhatpur, B.Ed. (50 seats)
Nou Road, Baripada, Mayurbhanj, B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Odisha-757003 B. Ed. (50 seats)
25. ASSAM ERC Tyagbir Hem Baruah College, B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Karchantola, Naduar, Jamugurihat, B.Ed. (50 seats)
Sonitpur, Assam -784189 B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
B. Ed. (50 seats)
26. ASSAM ERC North Lakhimpur College B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
(Autonomous), Khelmati, Nl B.Ed. (50 seats)
Colassamlege Road, North B.Sc. Secondary 1 unit
Lakhimpur, Assam-787031
B.Ed (50 Seats)
27. ARUNACHAL ERC Rajiv Gandhi University, Doimukh, B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
PRADESH Papumpara, Arunachal Pradesh - B.Ed. (50 seats)
791112
28. WEST BENGAL ERC Indian Institute of Technology B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Kharagpur 1, Midnapur, West B. Ed. (50 seats)
Bengal-721302
29. TRIPURA ERC National Institute of Technology B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Jirania, Nit Road, Agartala, West B. Ed. (50 seats)
Tripura -799046
30. MEGHALAYA ERC Kiang Nangbah Government B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
College, Jowai, Nh-6, Jowai, West B.Ed. (50 seats)
Jaintia Hills, Meghalaya-793150 B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
B. Ed. (50 seats)
31. KERALA SRC B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Central University of Kerala, B. Ed. (50 seats)
Periya, Tejaswini Hills, Hosdurg, B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Kanhangad, Kasaragod, Kerala - B.Ed. (50 seats)
671320 B.Com. Secondary 1 Unit
B.Ed. (50 seats)
32. TELANGANA SRC B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Department Of Education and
Training, Maulana Azad National B.Ed. (50 seats)
Urdu University, Gachibowli, B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Manikonda Village, Rajendra B. Ed. (50 seats)
Nagar, Hyderabad, Rangareddy, B.Com. Secondary 1 Unit
Telangana (cid:150) 500032 B.Ed. (50 seats)
33. TAMIL NADU SRC Central University Of Tamil Nadu, B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Nilakkudi, Nannilam, Thiruvarur, B. Ed. (50 seats)
Tamil Nadu - 610005
34. ANDHRA SRC National Sanskrit University, B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
PRADESH Reserviour Colony, Tirupati, B.Ed. (50 seats)
Chittoor, Andhra Pradesh (cid:150) 517507
35. KERALA SRC National Institute Of Technology B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Calicut, Chathamangalam, B. Ed. (50 seats)
Kozhikode, Kerala - 673601
36. PUDUCHERRY SRC School Of Education Sj Campus B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Pondicherry University, Kalapet B.Ed. (50 seats)
Revenue Village R Venkatraman B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Nagar Silver Jubilee Campus,
B. Ed. (50 seats)
Uzhavarkarai Panchayat
47

--- Page 50 ---
S. State Region Name and Address of the Approved Stages Approved
No. (Territorial Higher Education Institutions Course Unit
Jurisdiction) (HEIs) (Intake)
Puducherry - 605014
37. TELANGANA SRC National Institute of Technology, B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Hyderabad Highway, B.Ed. (50 seats)
Hanumankonda, Warangal,
Telangana - 506004
38. PUDUCHERRY SRC National Institute of Technology, B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Puducherry, Thiruvettakudy, B.Ed. (50 seats)
Karaikal, Puducherry (cid:150) 609609
39. ANDHRA SRC Dr. B. R. Ambedkar University, B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
PRADESH Etcherla, Main Road, Etcherla, B.Ed. (50 seats)
Srikakulam, Andhra Pradesh - B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
532410 B.Ed. (50 seats)
40. KARNATAKA SRC Nrupathunga University (Formerly B.Sc. Secondary 1 Unit
Government Science College), Nt B.Ed. (50 seats)
Road Nrupathunga University,
Bangalore, Karnataka - 560001
41. TELANGANA SRC Government Degree College, B.A. Secondary 1 Unit
Behind Csi Church, Luxettipet, B.Ed. (50 seats)
Mancherial, Telangana - 504215
42. ODISHA ERC Indian Institute of Technology, B.Sc., Secondary 1 Unit
Bhubaneshwar B.Ed (50 seats)
43. DELHI NRC Jesus and Mary College, University B.A. Secondary 1 unit
of Delhi, San Martin Marg, B.Ed. (50 Seats)
Chanakyapuri, Delhi, South Delhi,
Delhi-110021
44. Haryana NRC B.A. Secondary 1 unit
B.Ed. (50 Seats)
Institute of Teacher Training and
B.Sc. Secondary 1 unit
Research Kurukshetra University,
B.Ed. (50 Seats)
Kurukshetra
B.Com. Secondary 1 unit
B.Ed. (50 Seats)
45. Delhi NRC Department of Education, B.A. Secondary 1 unit
University of Delhi, North Campus, B.Ed (50 Seats)
University of Delhi, Chhatra Marg,
33, Delhi, North Delhi, Delhi-
110007
46. Chandigarh NRC B.A. Secondary 1 unit
Panjab University, Chandigarh, B.Ed (50 Seats)
Sector 14, Sector 14, Middle 1 unit
Chandigarh, Chandigarh (UT), (50 Seats)
Chandigarh-160014 Preparatory 1 unit
(50 Seats)
47. Delhi NRC Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha, B.A. Secondary 1 unit
University, Dwarka, Golf Link B.Ed (50 Seats)
Road, Delhi, Delhi, Southwest
Delhi, Delhi110078
48. Punjab NRC Indian Institute of Technology B.Sc. Secondary 1 unit
Ropar, Rupnagar, Near Bara Phool, B.Ed. (50 Seats)
Ropar and Shri Chamkaur Sahib,
Rupnagar, Ropar/Rupnagar,
Punjab140001
49. Punjab NRC Punjabi University, Patiala, Arts, B.A. Secondary 1 unit
Block No.5, Patiala, Patiala, B.Ed. (50 Seats)
Punjab- 147002
50. Haryana NRC Guru Jambheshwar University of B.A. Secondary 1 unit
48

--- Page 51 ---
S. State Region Name and Address of the Approved Stages Approved
No. (Territorial Higher Education Institutions Course Unit
Jurisdiction) (HEIs) (Intake)
Science and Technology Hisar, B.Ed. (50 Seats)
Hissar, Haryana -125001
B.Sc. Secondary 1 unit
B.Ed. (50 Seats)
51. Punjab NRC B.A. Secondary 1 unit
Central University of Punjab,
B.Ed. (50 Seats)
Ghudda, Badal Road, Bathinda,
B.Sc. Secondary 1 unit
Punjab-151401
B.Ed. (50 Seats)
52. Maharashtra WRC Shivaji University, Kolhapur, B.Sc. Secondary 1 unit
Maharashtra-416004 B.Ed. (50 Seats)
53. Maharashtra WRC B.A. Secondary 1 unit
Department of Education and B.Ed (50 Seats)
Extension, Savitribai Phule, Pune B.Sc. Secondary 1 unit
University Karwar, Nh 62 Nagaur B.Ed. (50 Seats)
Maharashtra B.Com. Secondary 1 unit
B.Ed. (50 Seats)
54. Gujarat WRC The Maharaja Sayajirao University B.A. Secondary 1 unit
of Baroda, Vadodara (Baroda), B.Ed. (50 Seats)
Gujarat-390002
55. Jodhpur WRC Indian Institute of Technology B.Sc. Secondary 1 unit
Jodhpur, Nh 62, Nagaur Road, B.Ed (50 Seats)
Karwar, Jodhpur, Rajasthan342030
56. Madhya Pradesh WRC Central Sanskrit University Bhopal B.A. Secondary 2 unit
Campus, Bag Sevaniya, Bhopal, B.Ed. (100 Seats)
Madhya Pradesh462043
57. Rajasthan WRC Central Sanskrit University, B.A. Secondary 2 unit
Gopalpura Bypass, Triveni Nagar, B.Ed (100 Seats)
Jaipur Campus, Rajasthan-302018
58. Chhattisgarh WRC B.A. Secondary 1 unit
Institute of Teachers Education, Pt. B.Ed (50 Seats)
Ravishankar Shukla University, B.Sc. Secondary 1 unit
Amanaka G.E. Road, Raipur (cid:150) B.Ed. (50 Seats)
492010 B.Com. Secondary 1 unit
B.Ed (50 Seats)
59. Tamil Nadu SRC National Institute of Technology, B.A. Secondary 1 unit
Thuvakudi, Tanjavur, Main Road, B.Ed (50 Seats)
Thiruverumbur, Tiruchirappalli,
Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadi620015
60. Kerala SRC Central Sanskrit University, B.A. Secondary 2 unit
Guruvayoor Campus Adat, B.Ed. (100 Seats)
Puanattukara, Thrissur,
Kerala680551
61. Mizoram ERC B.A. Secondary 1 unit
B.Ed. (50 Seats)
Mizoram University Tanhril, B.Sc. Secondary 1 unit
Tanhril, Aizawal, Mizoram796004 B.Ed. (50 Seats)
B.Com. Secondary 1 unit
B.Ed (50 Seats)
62. Meghalaya ERC Northeastern Hill University B.A. Secondary 1 unit
Mawlai, Umshing Mawlai, B.Ed. (50 Seats)
Shillong, Shillong, East Khasi B.Sc. Secondary 1 unit
Hills, Meghalaya-793022 B.Ed. (50 Seats)
63. Assam ERC Chaiduar College Gohpur, Nh15, B.A. Secondary 1 unit
Chaiduar, Gohpur, Biswanath, B.Ed. (50 Seats)
49

--- Page 52 ---
S. State Region Name and Address of the Approved Stages Approved
No. (Territorial Higher Education Institutions Course Unit
Jurisdiction) (HEIs) (Intake)
Assam-784168 B.Sc. Secondary 1 unit
B.Ed. (50 Seats)
64. ASSAM ERC Bahona College, Mout Gaon B.A Secondary 1 unit
Nimati Road Charigoan Mouza, B.Ed (50 Seats)
Jorhat, Assam- 785101 Middle 1 unit
(50 Seats)
B.Sc Secondary 1 unit
B.Ed (50 Seats)
Middle 1 unit
(50 Seats)
Note:
 Details of Programmes / Courses offered by the above-mentioned Universities/Institutions
along with their Eligibility Criteria are available at the respective
universities/Institutions’’ websites.
 Candidates are advised to keep visiting the NTA and University/Institution website to
which they are applying, for the latest updates/public notices/notifications/
announcements to be issued from time to time regarding the NCET 2024.
 NCET 2024 is meant for admission to UG courses offered by selected Central/State
Universities/Institutions including IITs, NITs, RIEs, and Government Colleges for the
Academic Session 2024-25
50

--- Page 53 ---
Appendix (cid:150) II
The list of Languages, Domain Specific Subjects, and General Tests covered in NCET 2024 is given
in the following table:
SECTION Code Name
101 English Language and Literature
102 Hindi Language and Literature / िहंदी भाषा और सािह(cid:194)य
103 Assamese
104 Bengali
105 Gujarati
106 Kannada
107 Malayalam
108 Marathi
109 Odia
110 Punjabi
111 Tamil
112 Telugu
113 Urdu
114 English for Communication
115 Hindi for Communication / संचार के िलए िहंदी
201 Arabic
202 Bodo
203 Chinese
Section 1 204 Dogri
(38 Languages)
205 French
206 German
207 Italian
208 Japanese
209 Kashmiri
210 Konkani
211 Maithili
212 Manipuri
213 Nepali
214 Persian
215 Russian
216 Santhali
217 Sindhi
218 Spanish
219 Tibetan
220 Sanskrit
221 Garo
222 Khasi
223 Pali
301 Accountancy/Book Keeping
Section 2 302 Agriculture
(26 Domain- 303 Anthropology
51

--- Page 54 ---
SECTION Code Name
Specific Subjects) 304 Biology/Biological Studies/Biotechnology/Biochemistry
305 Business Studies
306 Chemistry
307 Environmental Studies
308 Computer Science/Informatics Practices
309 Economics/Business Economics
310 Engineering Graphics
311 Entrepreneurship
312 Fine Arts/Visual Arts (Sculpture/Painting)/ Commercial Art
313 Geography/ Geology
314 History
315 Home Science
316 Knowledge Tradition-Practices India
317 Legal Studies
318 Mass Media/Mass Communication
319 Mathematics / Applied Mathematics
320 Performing Arts
321 Physical Education/National Cadet Corps(NCC)/ Yoga
322 Physics
323 Political Science
324 Psychology
325 Sanskrit
326 Sociology
Section 3
327 Teaching Aptitude
(Mandatory)
Section 4
501 General Test
(Mandatory)
Note :
The candidate studying any of the subjects in the field of Shastric traditional subjects i.e.
Sahitya, Vyakarana, Phalitha Jyotisha, Siddhanta Jyotisha, Nyaya, Advaita Vedanta,
Visistadvaita Vedanta, Dvaita Vedanta, Sankhya Yoga, Agama, Mimamsa, Puranetihasa,
Dharanasastra, Rigvedabhashyam, Krishna Yajurveda Bhashyam, Shukla Yajurveda
Bhashyam, Samaveda Bhashyam, Atharva Veda Bhashyam, Vastu, may select Sanskrit
(220) and/or Sanskrit (325) in the online Application Form of NCET 2024. Also,
candidates are advised to select the subjects as per the mapping of Universities.
Important Points to Note:
Candidates who will be appearing in NCET 2024 will participate in the
Counselling/admission process of any Central/State University / Institution (IITs, NITs,
RIEs, and Govt. Colleges) which have been granted recognition by NCTE for ITEP for
the academic session 2024-25. University/ Institution /Govt. College may fill up the vacant
seats thereafter from the pool of NCET-qualified candidates
52

--- Page 55 ---
Appendix - III
List of Examination Cities for NCET 2024
NCET 2024 will be conducted in the following Cities, provided there are sufficient numbers of
candidates in the City:
S. NO. STATE CITY CITY CODE
1 ANDAMAN AND NICOBAR ISLANDS PORT BLAIR AN01
2 ANDHRA PRADESH ANANTAPUR AP01
3 ANDHRA PRADESH CHITTOOR AP05
4 ANDHRA PRADESH GUDUR AP26
5 ANDHRA PRADESH GUNTUR AP07
6 ANDHRA PRADESH KAKINADA AP09
7 ANDHRA PRADESH KURNOOL AP10
8 ANDHRA PRADESH RAJAHMUNDRY AP13
9 ANDHRA PRADESH TIRUPATHI AP16
10 ANDHRA PRADESH VIJAYAWADA AP17
11 ANDHRA PRADESH VISAKHAPATNAM AP18
12 ARUNACHAL PRADESH ITANAGAR/NAHARLAGUN AL01
13 ASSAM DIBRUGARH AM06
14 ASSAM GUWAHATI AM02
15 ASSAM JORHAT AM03
16 BIHAR AURANGABAD(BIHAR) BR01
17 BIHAR BHAGALPUR BR02
18 BIHAR DARBHANGA BR04
19 BIHAR GAYA BR05
20 BIHAR MUZAFFARPUR BR06
21 BIHAR PATNA BR07
22 CHANDIGARH CHANDIGARH CH01
23 CHHATTISGARH BHILAI NAGAR CG01
24 CHHATTISGARH BILASPUR(CHHATTISGARH) CG02
25 CHHATTISGARH RAIPUR CG03
26 DADRA & NAGAR HAVELI SILVASSA DN01
27 DAMAN DAMAN DD01
28 DELHI DELHI/NEW DELHI DL01
29 GOA PANJIM GO02
30 GUJARAT AHMEDABAD GJ01
31 GUJARAT JAMNAGAR GJ06
32 GUJARAT JUNAGADH GJ07
33 GUJARAT SURAT GJ11
34 HARYANA AMBALA HR01
35 HARYANA FARIDABAD HR03
36 HARYANA GURUGRAM HR04
37 HARYANA KURUKSHETRA HR07
38 HARYANA KARNAL HR06
39 HIMACHAL PRADESH CHAMBA HP12
40 HIMACHAL PRADESH HAMIRPUR (HP) HP03
41 HIMACHAL PRADESH SHIMLA HP06
42 HIMACHAL PRADESH KANGRA HP13
43 HIMACHAL PRADESH UNA HP09
44 JAMMU AND KASHMIR BARAMULLA JK01
45 JAMMU AND KASHMIR JAMMU JK02
46 JAMMU AND KASHMIR SRINAGAR (J & K) JK04
47 JHARKHAND BOKARO JH01
48 JHARKHAND DHANBAD JH02
49 JHARKHAND JAMSHEDPUR JH03
50 JHARKHAND RANCHI JH04
51 KARNATAKA BELAGAVI(BELGAUM) KK02
53

--- Page 56 ---
S.NO. STATE CITY CITY CODE
52 KARNATAKA BENGALURU KK04
53 KARNATAKA BIDAR KK05
54 KARNATAKA CHIKBALLAPUR KK36
55 KARNATAKA GADAG KK25
56 KARNATAKA GULBARGA KK08
57 KARNATAKA HASSAN KK09
58 KARNATAKA HOSAPET KK37
59 KARNATAKA HUBLI KK27
60 KARNATAKA MANGALORE KK12
61 KARNATAKA MYSURU(MYSORE) KK14
62 KARNATAKA SHIVAMOGA(SHIMOGA) KK15
63 KARNATAKA TUMKUR KK16
64 KERALA ERNAKULAM KL04
65 KERALA IDUKKI KL05
66 KERALA KANNUR KL07
67 KERALA KOTTAYAM KL11
68 KERALA KOZHIKODE/CALICUT KL12
69 KERALA MALAPPURAM KL13
70 KERALA PALAKKAD KL15
71 KERALA THIRUVANANTHAPURAM KL17
72 KERALA THRISSUR KL18
73 LADAKH LEH LL01
74 LAKSHADWEEP KAVARATTI LD01
75 MADHYA PRADESH BHOPAL MP03
76 MADHYA PRADESH GWALIOR MP06
77 MADHYA PRADESH INDORE MP07
78 MADHYA PRADESH JABALPUR MP08
79 MADHYA PRADESH REWA MP11
80 MADHYA PRADESH SAGAR MP12
81 MADHYA PRADESH SATNA MP13
82 MADHYA PRADESH UJJAIN MP15
83 MAHARASHTRA AKOLA MR02
84 MAHARASHTRA AMRAVATI MR03
85 MAHARASHTRA AURANGABAD (MH) MR04
86 MAHARASHTRA DHULE MR10
87 MAHARASHTRA JALGAON MR13
88 MAHARASHTRA KOLHAPUR MR14
89 MAHARASHTRA MUMBAI MR16
90 MAHARASHTRA NAGPUR MR17
91 MAHARASHTRA NANDED MR18
92 MAHARASHTRA NASHIK MR19
93 MAHARASHTRA PUNE MR22
94 MAHARASHTRA SATARA MR26
95 MAHARASHTRA SOLAPUR MR27
96 MAHARASHTRA THANE MR28
97 MAHARASHTRA WARDHA MR29
98 MANIPUR IMPHAL MN01
99 MEGHALAYA SHILLONG MG03
100 MIZORAM AIZAWL MZ01
101 NAGALAND DIMAPUR NL01
102 ODISHA ANGUL OR10
103 ODISHA BALASORE OR02
104 ODISHA BERHAMPUR OR03
105 ODISHA BHADRAK OR11
106 ODISHA BHUBANESWAR OR04
107 ODISHA CUTTACK OR05
108 ODISHA ROURKELA OR08
109 ODISHA SAMBALPUR OR09
110 PUDUCHERRY PUDUCHERRY PO01
54

--- Page 57 ---
S. NO. STATE CITY CITY CODE
111 PUNJAB AMRITSAR PB01
112 PUNJAB BHATINDA PB02
113 PUNJAB JALANDHAR PB04
114 PUNJAB LUDHIANA PB05
115 PUNJAB PATHANKOT PB07
116 PUNJAB PATIALA PB08
117 RAJASTHAN AJMER RJ01
118 RAJASTHAN ALWAR RJ02
119 RAJASTHAN BIKANER RJ05
120 RAJASTHAN HANUMANGARH RJ23
121 RAJASTHAN JAIPUR RJ06
122 RAJASTHAN JODHPUR RJ07
123 RAJASTHAN KOTA RJ08
124 RAJASTHAN SIKAR RJ09
125 RAJASTHAN SRIGANGANAGAR RJ10
126 RAJASTHAN UDAIPUR RJ11
127 SIKKIM GANGTOK SM01
128 TAMIL NADU CHENGALPET TN25
129 TAMIL NADU CHENNAI TN01
130 TAMIL NADU COIMBATORE TN02
131 TAMIL NADU CUDDALORE TN03
132 TAMIL NADU DHARMAPURI TN26
133 TAMIL NADU DINDIGUL TN27
134 TAMIL NADU ERODE TN28
135 TAMIL NADU KANCHIPURAM TN05
136 TAMIL NADU KANYAKUMARI TN06
137 TAMIL NADU KARUR TN29
138 TAMIL NADU MADURAI TN08
139 TAMIL NADU NAMAKKAL TN10
140 TAMIL NADU SALEM TN11
141 TAMIL NADU THANJAVUR TN12
142 TAMIL NADU THENI TN41
143 TAMIL NADU THOOTHUKUDI TN13
144 TAMIL NADU TIRUCHIRAPPALLI TN14
145 TAMIL NADU VELLORE TN18
146 TELANGANA HYDERABAD TL01
147 TELANGANA KARIMNAGAR TL02
148 TELANGANA KHAMMAM TL03
149 TELANGANA MAHBUBNAGAR TL04
150 TELANGANA WARANGAL TL07
151 TRIPURA AGARTALA TA01
152 UTTAR PRADESH AGRA UP01
153 UTTAR PRADESH ALLAHABAD/PRAYAGRAJ UP03
154 UTTAR PRADESH AZAMGARH UP19
155 UTTAR PRADESH BAREILLY UP04
156 UTTAR PRADESH GHAZIABAD UP07
157 UTTAR PRADESH GHAZIPUR UP23
158 UTTAR PRADESH GORAKHPUR UP08
159 UTTAR PRADESH JHANSI UP10
160 UTTAR PRADESH KANPUR UP11
161 UTTAR PRADESH LUCKNOW UP12
162 UTTAR PRADESH MATHURA UP13
163 UTTAR PRADESH MEERUT UP14
164 UTTAR PRADESH MORADABAD UP15
165 UTTAR PRADESH NOIDA/GREATER NOIDA UP09
166 UTTAR PRADESH VARANASI UP18
167 UTTARAKHAND DEHRADUN UK01
168 UTTARAKHAND HALDWANI UK02
169 UTTARAKHAND HARIDWAR UK03
55

--- Page 58 ---
S.NO. STATE CITY CITY CODE
170 WEST BENGAL ASANSOL WB01
171 WEST BENGAL BURDWAN(BARDHAMAN) WB02
172 WEST BENGAL DURGAPUR WB04
173 WEST BENGAL HOOGHLY WB06
174 WEST BENGAL HOWRAH WB07
175 WEST BENGAL KOLKATA WB10
176 WEST BENGAL MALDA WB20
177 WEST BENGAL MURSHIDABAD WB21
178 WEST BENGAL SILIGURI WB11
Note: While applying, candidates have to select any two cities of their choice. Efforts will
be made to allot the city of examination to the candidates in the order of preference opted by
them in their online Application Forms. However, due to administrative/logistic reasons,
a different city can be allotted.
56

--- Page 59 ---
Appendix (cid:150)IV
Procedure for Online Payment of Fees and Helpline for Payment-Related Queries
After completing Step 2 of the Online Application Form, the candidate may remit the examination fee
(Step 3) in the following manner:
 Check the validity of the Debit/ Credit Card and keep it ready with you while logging on to
the website for submitting the Application Form. The candidates should enter the information
asked for and make payment through a Debit/ Credit Card.
 Through Net Banking, check the balance in your account and keep all credentials ready with
you while logging on to the website to make payments. The candidates should log in with
his/her credentials for net banking and make payments accordingly.
 For payment through a UPI Service, check whether there is a requisite balance in the Bank
Account / Wallet to which the concerned UPI is linked.
 For payment through Paytm, check whether there is a requisite balance in the Account / Wallet
to which it is linked.
The prescribed Examination Fee (please see the Information at a Glance) can be paid through
any Bank/Payment Gateway in any Payment Mode [service/processing charges per transaction
and GST (if applicable) are to be borne by the candidate:
HDFC Bank Ltd
S. No Mode of Payment HDFC BANK
HDFC NIL Charge
1 Net Banking
Other Banks NIL Charge
Transaction up to ₹ 2000/-
HDFC or
2 Debit Cards 0 %
Other Banks
Transaction above ₹ 2000/- 0 %
Domestic Nil Charge
3 Credit Cards
International Nil Charge
Unified Payment Interface
4 Nil Charge
(UPI)
If Paying through HDFC Bank:
Level Name Email ID Contact Number
1 Ecom Support Ecomsupport.delhi@hdfcbank.com
2. Pradeep Yadav Pradeep.yadav10@hdfcbank.com 9625622301
3 Vikram Singh Vikram.singh4@hdfcbank.com 9799810080
SBI
S. No Mode of Payment STATE BANK OF INDIA
SBI
1 Net Banking
Other Banks ₹ 5.00 + GST
2 Debit Cards Nil
Domestic
0.80% + GST
3 Credit Cards
3.50% of Fee+ GST
International
(Minimum Rs 11/-)
57

--- Page 60 ---
Unified Payment Interface
4 NIL Charge
(UPI)
If Paying through the State Bank of India (SBI) :
Level Name Email ID Contact Number
1 Helpdesk3 sbi.05222@sbi.co.in 08026599990
2 Customer Care agmcustomer.Ihodel@sbi.co.in 1800112211
4 Through SMS UNHAPPY (add text) 8008202020
CANARA BANK
Sr. No Mode of Payment CANARA BANK
Other Banks (Including
₹ 13 + GST
Canara Bank)
1 Net Banking
HDFC, ICICI, SBI,
₹ 17 + GST
AXIS
Transaction up to
₹ 2000/-
0.40% + GST
Visa/Master
2 Debit Cards Transaction above
₹ 2000/-
0.85% + GST
Rupay NIL Charge
3 Credit Cards Domestic 1.10% + GST
Unified Payment
4 NIL Charge
Interface (UPI)
If paying through Canara Bank:
Level Name Email ID
1 HelpDesk pgsupport@billdesk.com; dssrosdel@canarabank.com;
tmcodel@canarabank.com; cb0268@canarabank.com;
2 Complaint Management pgsupport@billdesk.com dssrosdel@canarabank.com;
Services tmcodel@canarabank.com; cb0268@canarabank.com
3 Customer Care pgsupport@billdesk.com dssrosdel@canarabank.com;
tmcodel@canarabank.com; cb0268@canarabank.com
4 ThroughSMS ---
ICICI BANK
S.No Mode of Payment ICICI BANK
ICICI NIL Charge
1 Net Banking
Other Banks 4.00 + GST
Transaction upto
ICICI or Rs 2000/- 0 %
2 Debit Cards
Other Banks Transaction above 0.5 % + GST
Rs 2000/-
Domestic 0.40%of Transaction value
3 Credit Cards
International 2.35%of Transaction value
Unified Payment Transaction upto
4 ICICI or other banks
Interface Rs 2000/- 0 %
58

--- Page 61 ---
(UPI) Transaction above 0 %
Rs 2000/- + GST
If Paying through ICICI Bank:
Level Name Email ID Contact Number
1 Customer support Helpline pgsupport.ind@worldline.com
number 1800222884
(9 AM to 6 PM)
(Pls select option 3)
Note:
In case, the fee payment status is not (cid:145)OK(cid:146), or the Confirmation Page of the Online Application
is not generated after fee payment (completion of Step 3), the candidate is advised to contact the
helpline number/email of the concerned Bank/Payment Gateway Integrator, as mentioned the
above: -
(a) NTA Helpdesk Contact details (in case the payment-related issues are not resolved
through the above-mentioned Helplines of the concerned Bank/Payment Gateway
Integrator):
Email: ncet@nta.ac.in
Phone No.: 011-40759000
Procedure to raise payment-related Grievance:
After (successful completion of Step 3, the Confirmation Page of the Application Form, should
be downloaded and a printout of the same may be retained for future reference. The Confirmation
Page of the online Application Form could be generated only after successful payment by the
Candidate.
In case the Confirmation Page is not generated after payment of the prescribed fee, then the
candidate should approach the concerned Bank/Payment Gateway integrator (in the helpline
number and email given above in the Information Bulletin), to ensure the successful payment.
In spite of the above, if a successful transaction is not reflected on the Portal, the candidate may
contact the NTA Helpline. If the payment issue is still not resolved, the candidate may pay a
second time.
However, any duplicate payment received from the candidate by NTA in the course of said
transactions will be refunded through the same payment mode through which the duplicate
payment is received, after fee reconciliation by NTA
Information to be provided by the Candidate while raising any payment-related query/grievance
through QRS/email/Helplines: -
a. Name of the Bank and /or Payment Gateway.
b. Date and time of the transaction
c. Transaction Number
d. Bank Reference Number
e. Proof of transaction
f. Screenshot from the payment portal (in case of payment failure).
59

--- Page 62 ---
Appendix-V
Computer-Based Test (CBT) Guidelines
The major examinations being conducted by NTA are Computer-Based Tests (CBT). A CBT requires
candidates to sit in front of a computer terminal (node) allocated to them against their Roll number and
Admit card. After logging the candidate will get detailed instructions for the examinations. At the
designated time of the start of the examination, the candidates will be able to proceed and see the
questions on the computer screen using the computer mouse. Candidates will have the option to
change/modify/edit/answers already entered at any time during the examination.
Procedure for appearing in Computer Based Test (CBT):
(Sample/mock test will be available on the NTA website: www.nta.ac.in for hands-on practice)
(a) A computer terminal (node) indicating the Roll Number will be allocated to each candidate.
Candidates should find and sit on their allocated computers only. Any candidate found to have
changed room/hall or the computer on their own other than the one allotted would lead to
cancellation of candidature and no plea in this regard would be entertained.
(b) For login, the candidate will have to enter a login ID and password. The computer terminal
allotted to the candidate will display the WELCOME login screen, the Candidate(cid:146)s photograph,
and the NET subject opted by the candidate.
Candidate Login Page
Candidate Welcome Screen
(c) After login, the candidate shall be able to see the detailed instructions for the examination.
Candidates are advised to go through the instructions carefully regarding the type of questions
and marking scheme. At the designated time of the start of the examination, the candidates will
be able to proceed and see the questions on the computer screen.
60

--- Page 63 ---
Please read the instructions carefully
General Instructions
1. The total duration of the examination is as indicated on the Admit Card issued by the
NTA.
2. The clock will be set on the server. The countdown timer on the top right corner of the
screen will display the remaining available time for you to complete the examination.
When the timer reaches zero, the examination will end by itself and you will not be
required to end or submit your examination.
3. The Question Palette displayed on the left side of the screen will show the status of each
question using one of the following symbols:
4. The Marked for Review status for a question simply indicates that you would like to
look at that question again. Questions that are answered and (cid:147)Marked for Review(cid:148) will
be automatically saved and evaluated even if the flag is not removed.
5. The questions and answer options will be displayed in English and the chosen
language. For any doubt or clarification, you are requested to refer to the English
version as the final.
N avigating to a Question:
6. To navigate between questions within a Paper, the candidate needs to do the following:
(cid:149) Click on the question number in the Question Palette at the left of your screen
to go to that question directly in the corresponding section. Note that using
this option does NOT save your answer to the current question.
(cid:149) You can click on the arrow on the top of the question window to go to the next
question. You can click on the which appears on the left side of the question
window for going back to the previous question.
61

--- Page 64 ---
(cid:149) Your answer to a question is automatically saved when you click on the
button on the top right-hand corner of the question window. Please note that
there is no separate SAVE button.
A nswering a Question:
7. Procedure for answering a Multiple Choice Type question:
(cid:149) To select your answer, click on the button of one of the options.
(cid:149) To de-select your chosen answer, click on the button of the chosen
option again.
(cid:149) To change your chosen answer, click on the button of another option.
(cid:149) You can click on the top left-hand side of the
question window when you want to come back to that question later on,
whether you have answered it or not, and proceed to other questions.
(cid:149) When you answer any question "Marked for review", the status of the question
changes automatically to "Answered".
(cid:149) You can click on when you want to
change the status and freeze the answer already given or answer the question.
8. To change your answer to a question that has already been answered, first select that
question for answering and then follow the procedure for answering that type of
question.
N avigating through sections:
9. Sections in this question paper are displayed on the left-hand side of the screen.
Questions in a section can be viewed by clicking on the section name.
10. After clicking the button on the last question for a section, you will automatically
be taken to the first question of the next section.
11. You can shuffle between sections and questions anytime during the examination as per
your convenience only during the time stipulated.
12. You can view the section summary as part of the legend that appears in every section
below the question palette.
I nstruction for Question:
13. For the correctness of the translation for a particular language, only the English version
will be considered as the final version for evaluation purposes.
The keyboard attached to the computer, if any, will be disabled during the entire duration of
the examination. Candidates will have the option to change/modify answers already entered
anytime during the entire duration of the examination.
In case the computer/mouse allotted to any candidate malfunctions anytime during the test,
he/she will be immediately allotted another computer system and the time lost due to this will
be adjusted in the server so as to give the candidate the full allotted time.
62

--- Page 65 ---
The on-screen computer clock counter of every candidate will be set on the server. The
countdown timer on the top right side of the computer screen will display the time remaining
(in minutes) available for the candidate to complete the examination. When the timer reaches
zero, the examination will end by itself. The candidates will not be required to end or submit
the examination.
The Question Status displayed on the bottom left screen will show the status of each question
using one of the following symbols:
The question(s) (cid:147)Answered and Marked for Review(cid:148) status for a question indicates that the
candidates would like to have a relook at that question again. A candidate has the option of
answering a question and simultaneously (cid:147)Marked for Review(cid:148), these answers will be
considered for evaluation. However, if a candidate has simply put (cid:147)Marked for Review(cid:148) for a
question without answering it, the corresponding question marked for review without an
answer will not be considered for evaluation. It may be noted that a candidate can return to any
(cid:147)Marked for Review(cid:148) question any time during the examination by clicking on the
corresponding question number icon displayed on the Question Palette of the corresponding
section.
(a) Blank Sheets for doing Rough Work/calculations shall be provided to the candidates.
The Blanks Sheets would have a Header page for the candidates to write down his/her
Name and Roll Number. All calculations/writing work is to be done only in the Blank
Sheets provided at the Centre in the Examination Room/Hall and on completion of
the test candidates must hand over the rough sheets to the invigilator on duty in the
Room/Hall.
(b) ROUGH WORK:
All calculations/writing work is to be done only in the rough sheet provided at the
Centre in the Examination Room/Hall and on completion of the test candidates must
hand over the rough sheets to the invigilator on duty in the Room/Hall.
63

--- Page 66 ---
Appendix - VI
Procedure to be adopted for compilation of NTA scores for multi-session Papers
(Normalization procedure based on Percentile and Equi percentile method)
Need for Normalization
The NCET 2024 may be conducted in different shifts. Since the question papers for any subject
in different shifts are different and it is quite possible that despite all the best possible efforts
of maintaining equivalence among various question papers, the difficulty level of these
question papers administered in different sessions may not be the same or similar. Some of the
candidates might have ended up attempting a relatively tougher set of questions when
compared to other sets. The candidates who attempted the comparatively tougher examination
are likely to get lower marks as compared to those who attempted the easier one; the scores of
the students across shifts are not directly comparable. There is a need for normalizing the marks
across shifts to make them amenable to such comparisons.
A Committee headed by a Senior Professor from the Indian Statistical Institution Delhi and
comprising Senior Professors from the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi and the University
of Delhi had detailed deliberations to arrive at a methodology.
As already intimated in the Information Bulletin of NCET - 2022 the raw score of each
candidate in each subject will be normalized using the Equi- percentile method. This is done
separately for each subject for which the examination is held in multiple shifts.
For each subject for which the examination is held in multiple shifts, the raw score for each
candidate appearing for the subject will be converted into NTA Score (Percentile Score &
Normalized Score) in the following three steps.
Step 1: Convert Raw Scores into Percentile Scores.
The percentiles are calculated separately for each shift.
1. Record the number of candidates who have appeared in a shift. Denote
this number by N.
2. Sort all the candidates in one shift in decreasing order of their marks.
3. Note the raw marks for each candidate. Suppose this is denoted by T.
Count the number of candidates in that shift whose raw scores are less
than or equal to T. Denote this number by m.
4. The percentile score for this candidate is then calculated as:
P = 100
(cid:1865)
Illustration: ∗
Suppose that the examination in a certain(cid:1840) subject is held in two different
shifts, S1 and S2, say. Consider six candidates A, B, C, D, E, and F out of
which A, B, and C are from shift S1 and the other three are from shift S2.
64

--- Page 67 ---
Let the raw marks of the six candidates be , , (shift S1 marks) and
, shift S2 marks).
(
(cid:1876)(cid:1827) (cid:1876)(cid:1828) (cid:1876)(cid:1829)
F(cid:1877)o(cid:1830)r c(cid:1877)a(cid:1832)ndidates A, B, and C, the percentiles are calculated using the total marks obtained
by candidates appearing in shift S1 (in the same subject) as explained above.
Similarly, for candidates D, E, and F, the percentiles are calculated using the total
marks obtained by candidates appearing in shift S2 (in the same subject) as
explained above.
Let the respective percentiles be denoted by P , P , P , P , P , P .
A B C D E F
The above data is summarized in the following table. The terms in red colour indicate
that these are the output of this step.
Shift S1 Shift S2
Candidate Raw score Percentile Candidate Raw score Percentile
A P D P
A D
B P E P
B E
C P F P
C F
Since the calculation for percentiles in any shift depends only on the data from that
shift alone, there is a separate table for each shift.
Step 2: Pull the percentiles to the scale of the marks for each session to get a Normalized
Score.
 The data across all sessions tabulated at the end of step 1 is collated into
a single table.
 The columns for the shift-wise raw score should be kept separate.
 All the records are then sorted in decreasing order of the percentiles.
Illustration (Continued):
In the illustrative example given above, suppose that the percentiles of the
six candidates satisfy
P >P >P =P >P >P
E A C F B D
Then the collated table would look as given below:
Candidate Percentile RawscoreS1 RawScoreS2
E P (cid:150)
E
A P (cid:150)
A
C&F P =P
C
F
B P (cid:150)
B
D P (cid:150)
D
Candidate C from shift S1 and candidate F from shift S2 have the same percentile.
The relevant entries under (cid:147)Raw Score S1(cid:148) and (cid:147)Raw Score S2(cid:148) are the actual
raw scores and respectively. This has the obvious interpretation that marks
F
of shift S1 are equivalent to marks of shift S2.
(cid:1876)(cid:1829) (cid:1877)
(cid:1876)(cid:1829) (cid:1877)(cid:1832)
65

--- Page 68 ---
Candidates A and B, appearing in shift S1, have a blank entry in column (cid:147)Raw Score
S2(cid:148), as there is no corresponding candidate having exactly the same percentile from
shift S2. Similarly, Candidates D and E, appearing in shift S2, have a blank entry
in column (cid:147)Raw Score S1(cid:148), as there is no corresponding candidate having exactly
the same percentile from shift S1.
 In the remaining part of this Step 2, the blank entries in the two (cid:147)Raw Score(cid:148)
columns are filled up using linear interpolation.
 Consider a record (row) whose entry in the column (cid:147)Raw Score S1(cid:148) is blank.
The blank will be replaced by the interpolated score X which is calculated as:
−
2 1
=
1
+ ( −
1
)
−
2 1
(cid:1876) (cid:1876)
Where: (cid:1850) (cid:1876) (cid:1842) (cid:1868)
(cid:1868) (cid:1868)
- P is the corresponding entry in the (cid:147)Percentile(cid:148) column
- x is the first non-blank entry BELOW X. i.e., x <X and there is no
1 1
other non-blank entry in the column between x and X.
1
- x is the first non-blank entry ABOVE X. i.e., x > X and there is
2 2
no other non-blank entry in the column between x and X.
2
- p is the entry in the (cid:147)Percentile(cid:148) column corresponding to x from the column
1 1
(cid:147)Raw Score S1(cid:148).
- p is the entry in the (cid:147)Percentile(cid:148) column corresponding to x from the column
2 2
(cid:147)Raw Score S1(cid:148).
Note that there may be several blank entries between x and x .
1 2
 All the blank entries in column (cid:147)Raw Score S1(cid:148) can now be replaced by
the interpolated values.
 The blank entries in column (cid:147)Raw Score S2(cid:148) are also replaced using a
similar procedure.
Illustration (Continued):
The table in the illustrative example would look like the following, where the
entries in red indicate the additional output at the end of this step.
Candidate Percentile Raw Score S1 Raw Score S2
E P X
E E
A P Y
A (cid:1877)(cid:1831)A
C&F P =P
C F
B P Y
B B
(cid:1877)(cid:1832)
D P X
D D
(cid:1877)(cid:1830)
66

--- Page 69 ---
Step3: Calculation of the Normalised Score
Now for each subject, there is a score assigned to each percentile value for each
session. The Normalised score, Z, corresponding to a percentile value P, is
calculated as:
Z= Average of ( , ,
, (cid:133) (cid:133) (cid:133) . . )=
+ + +,(cid:133)..+
(cid:1873)(cid:1827) (cid:1873)(cid:1828)t (cid:1873)(cid:1829) (cid:1873)(cid:1872)
(cid:1873) (cid:1873) (cid:1873)
(cid:1873)
Where , , (cid:133) (cid:133) (cid:133) . . den(cid:1827)ote(cid:1828) the(cid:1829) raw scores(cid:1872) corresponding to the percentile P in each of
the different sessions
(cid:1873)(cid:1827) (cid:1873)(cid:1828) (cid:1873)(cid:1872)
Illustration (Continued):
The final table in the illustrative example would be as follows:
Raw Raw Normalized
Candidate Percentile ScoreS1 ScoreS2 Score
E P
E
X
E
(X
E
+ )/2
A P A Y (cid:1877)(cid:1831)A ( +Y (cid:1877)A (cid:1831))/2
C&F P
C
=P
F
(
(cid:1876)
(cid:1827) + )/2
B P B Y (cid:1877)(cid:1832)B ( (cid:1876)(cid:1829) +Y (cid:1877)B(cid:1832))/2
D P
D
X
D
(X
(cid:1876)D
(cid:1828) + )/2
(cid:1877)(cid:1830) (cid:1877) (cid:1830)
Step-by-Step Procedure for Converting from Raw Score to
Normalized Score: -
Example: Suppose a test was held in 4 phases of examinees as per details given
below: -
(Allocation of Days and shifts was done randomly)
No of Candidates Raw Score
Session Day Shift
Absent Appeared Total Highest Lowest
Session-1 Day-1 Shift-1 3974 28012 31986 200 -40
Session-2 Day-1 Shift-2 6189 32541 38730 194 -36
Session-3 Day-2 Shift-1 6036 41326 47362 188 -36
Session-4 Day-2 Shift-2 9074 40603 49677 200 -40
Total (Session-1 to Session-4) 25273 142482 167755 200 -40
67

--- Page 70 ---
i. Highest Raw Score and Percentile Score: -
Session Total Highest Candidates who Percentile Score Remarks
Candidates Raw scored EQUAL
Appeared Score OR LESS
THAN
Highest Raw
Score
100.0000000 i.e., All the
Session-1 28012 200 28012 [(28012/28012) *100] highest raw
100.0000000 scores would
Session-2 32541 194 32541 [(32541/32541) *100] be normalized
100.0000000 to 100
Session-3 41326 188 41326 [(41326/41326) *100] Percentile
Score for their
100.0000000 respective
Session-4 40603 200 40603 [(40603/40603) *100] session.
ii. Lowest Score and Percentile Score: -
Session Total Lowest Candidates who Percentile Remarks
Candidates Raw scored EQUAL Score
Appeared Score OR LESS
THAN
Highest Raw
Score
0.0035699
[(1/28012)
i.e., the Percentile
Session-1 28012 -40 1 *100]
Scores of all the lowest
0.0030730
raw scores are different
[(1/32541)
i.e., Percentile Score
Session-2 32541 -36 1 *100]
depends on the total
0.0024198
number of candidates
[(1/41326)
who have taken the
Session-3 41326 -36 1 *100]
examination for their
0.0024629
respective session.
[(1/40603)
Session-4 40603 -40 1 *100]
Step1: Convert Raw Score into Percentile Score
The percentile score for this candidate is then calculated as:
. ℎ
ℎ ℎ
= 100 x
(cid:1840)T(cid:1867)ota(cid:1867)l(cid:1858) N(cid:1829)o(cid:1853). (cid:1866)o(cid:1856)f (cid:1861)C(cid:1856)a(cid:1853)n(cid:1872)d(cid:1857)i(cid:1871)da(cid:1853)te(cid:1868)s(cid:1868) (cid:1857)w(cid:1853)h(cid:1870)o(cid:1857)(cid:1856) ap(cid:1858)p(cid:1870)e(cid:1867)a(cid:1865)red(cid:1872) i(cid:1857)n t(cid:1871)h(cid:1857)e(cid:1871) (cid:1871)s(cid:1861)e(cid:1867)s(cid:1866)sion
(cid:1875)(cid:1861)(cid:1872) (cid:1870)(cid:1853)(cid:1875) (cid:1871)(cid:1855)(cid:1867)(cid:1870)(cid:1857) (cid:1831)(cid:1843)(cid:1847)(cid:1827)(cid:1838) (cid:1846)(cid:1841) (cid:1841)(cid:1844) (cid:1838)(cid:1831)(cid:1845)(cid:1845) (cid:1872) (cid:1853)(cid:1866) (cid:1846) (cid:1845)(cid:1855)(cid:1867)(cid:1870)(cid:1857)
(cid:1842)(cid:1857)(cid:1870)(cid:1855)(cid:1857)(cid:1866)(cid:1872)(cid:1861)(cid:1864)(cid:1857) (cid:1845)(cid:1855)(cid:1867)(cid:1870)(cid:1857)
68

--- Page 71 ---
Raw Percentile Raw Percentile
Candidat Score Score Candidate Score Score
e S1 S2
A20020720 200 100 B20123935 194 100
A20411664 192 99.969144 B20012622 192 99.9990405
A20018569 190 99.831255 B20656224 100 96.9671093
A20339879 184 99.732901 B20410215 42 69.2904047
A20074407 180 99.432054 B20236444 26 67.7672549
A20751862 88 88.654575 B20128586 14 46.3751151
A20922992 48 74.137715 B20001667 4 27.0887703
A21004667 40 69.290405 B20042147 2 23.9100399
A21141123 22 52.135343 B20051256 0 12.225608
A25465232 8 30.675846 B20481968 -2 11.6211621
A26545946 6 27.584445 B20091701 -12 10.4982563
A25656543 2 24.886459 B20549576 -14 10.3947421
A26625216 1 22.351432 B20098269 -30 10.2430506
A26174451 0 19.997686 B20071356 -36 0.053034
A25463225 -1 15.23523
A26598636 -6 11.104361
A26596462 -40 0.053034
Raw Percentile Raw Percentile
Candidate Score Score Candidat Score Score
S3 e S4
C20150694 188 100 D20479616 200 100
C20087997 186 99.969144 D20040337 194 99.9990405
C20121991 184 99.831255 D20467385 98 88.6545749
C20058572 180 99.732901 D20398094 44 68.9660903
C20060310 172 99.432054 D20428934 40 49.5097099
C20008597 56 78.338974 D20032939 32 46.3751151
C20430859 36 69.00182 D20690279 30 27.0887703
C20518247 20 52.135343 D20840699 28 23.9100399
C20045510 14 38.091932 D20084751 26 20.8800276
C20860609 9 30.675846 D21237483 24 12.1887008
C20861476 5 27.584445 D21077463 1 11.5349248
C20512680 3 24.886459 D20348188 -2 11.0243302
C20069270 2 22.351432 D25463225 -40 0.053034
C20355550 0 12.188701
C20549576 -3 11.23523
C26598636 -22 0.0539983
C26596462 -36 0.053034
69

--- Page 72 ---
Step 2: Pull Back the percentiles to the marks scale for each session to get Normalized
marks.
Percentile Raw Raw Raw Raw
Candidate Score Score S1 Score S2 Score S3 Score S4
A20020720=B20123935=C20150694=D2047961 100 200 194 188 200
6
B20012622=D20040337 99.99904053 - 192 - 194
A20411664=C20087997 99.9691438 192 - 186 -
A20018569=C20121991 99.8312554 190 - 184 -
A20339879=C20058572 99.7329013 184 - 180 -
A20074407=C20060310 99.4320538 180 - 172 -
B20656224 96.9671093 - 100 - -
A20751862=D20467385 88.6545749 88 - - 98
C20008597 78.3389742 - - 56 -
A20922992 74.1377149 48 - - -
A21004667=B20410215 69.2904047 40 42 -
C20430859 69.0018201 - - 36 -
D20398094 68.9660903 - - - 44
B20236444 67.7672549 - 26 - -
A21141123=C20518247 52.1353428 22 - 20 -
D20428934 49.50970986 - - - 40
B20128586=D20032939 46.37511514 - 14 - 32
C20045510 38.0919321 - - 14 -
A25465232=C20860609 30.6758464 8 - 9 -
A26545946=C20861476 27.5844446 6 - 5 -
B20001667=D20690279 27.08877034 - 4 - 30
A25656543=C20512680 24.886459 2 - 3 -
B20042147=D20840699 23.91003991 - 2 - 28
A26625216=C20069270 22.3514324 1 - 2 -
D20084751 20.88002763 - - - 26
A26174451 19.9976858 0 - - -
A25463225 15.23523 -1 - - -
B20051256 12.225608 - 0 - -
C20355550=D21237483 12.1887008 - - 0 24
B20481968 11.62116211 - -2 - -
D21077463 11.53492478 - - - 1
C20549576 11.23523 - - -3 -
A26598636 11.1043613 -6 - - -
D20348188 11.0243302 - - - -2
B20091701 10.49825625 - -12 - -
B20549576 10.39474209 - -14 - -
B20098269 10.2430506 - -30 - -
C26598636 0.0539983 - - -22 -
A26596462=B20071356=C26596462=D2546322 0.053034 -40 -36 -36 -40
5
70

--- Page 73 ---
In the remaining part of Step2, the blank entries in the Raw Score Columns are filled
up using the following linear interpolation Formulae:
2 − 1
= 1 + (cid:1876)2 − (cid:1876)1 ( − 1 )
(cid:1850) (cid:1876) (cid:1842) (cid:1868)
(cid:1868) (cid:1868)
Percentile Raw Score Raw Score Raw Score
Candidate Score Raw Score S1 S2 S3 S4
A20020720=B20123935=C20150694=D20479616 100 200 194 188 200
B20012622=D20040337 99.9990405 199.7512409 192 187.93781 194
A20411664=C20087997 99.9691438 192 171.96504 186 171.96504
A20018569=C20121991 99.8312554 190 167.63275 184 167.63275
A20339879=C20058572 99.7329013 184 164.54257 180 164.54257
A20074407=C20060310 99.4320538 180 155.09028 172 155.09028
B20656224 96.9671093 158.958447 100 158.4442 101.91063
A20751862=D20467385 88.6545749 88 82.580043 112.72997 98
C20008597 78.3389742 56.7810489 60.96241 56 69.707196
A20922992 74.1377149 48 52.158146 47.207694 58.184318
A21004667=B20410215 69.2904047 40 42 36.629757 44.889504
C20430859 69.0018201 39.6972017 38.968549 36 44.097997
D20398094 68.9660903 39.6597121 38.593224 35.966106 44
B20236444 67.7672549 38.4018305 26 34.828858 43.753534
A21141123=C20518247 52.1353428 22 17.231221 20 40.539799
D20428934 49.5097099 20.1081761 15.758363 18.878207 40
B20128586=D20032939 46.3751151 17.8496346 14 17.538962 32
C20045510 38.0919321 11.8814266 9.7051566 14 31.141031
A25465232=C20860609 30.6758464 8 5.8599046 9 30.371981
A26545946=C20861476 27.5844446 6 4.2570079 5 30.051402
B20001667=D20690279 27.0887703 5.2651195 4 4.6325597 30
A25656543=C20512680 24.886459 2 2.6143453 3 28.614345
B20042147=D20840699 23.9100399 1.6148289 2 2.6148289 28
A26625216=C20069270 22.3514324 1 1.7332164 2 26.97122
D20084751 20.8800276 0.374867 1.4813591 1.7104312 26
A26174451 19.9976858 0 1.3303305 1.5367886 25.79696
A25463225 15.23523 -1 0.5151508 0.5995493 24.70105
B20051256 12.225608 -4.6428439 0 0.0072632 24.008493
C20355550=D21237483 12.1887008 -4.6875164 -0.122119 0 24
B20481968 11.6211621 -5.3744647 -2 -1.785703 4.0338503
D21077463 11.5349248 -5.4788463 -2.767984 -2.057041 1
C20549576 11.23523 -5.8415966 -5.436905 -3 -0.760858
A26598636 11.1043613 -6 -6.602352 -3.222382 -1.529777
D20348188 11.0243302 -6.24622 -7.315066 -3.358377 -2
B20091701 10.4982563 -7.8647146 -12 -4.252322 -3.822101
B20549576 10.3947421 -8.1831815 -14 -4.428221 -4.180631
B20098269 10.2430506 -8.6498685 -30 -4.685987 -4.706027
C26598636 0.0539983 -39.9970333 -35.99943 -22 -39.99666
A26596462=B20071356=C26596462=D25463225 0.053034 -40 -36 -36 -40
71

--- Page 74 ---
Step 3: Calculation of Normalized Score: Now for each subject there is a score assigned to each percentile
value for each session. The Normalised score, Z, corresponding to a percentile value P, is calculated as:
Z= Average of ( ,, ,(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133).. )= + + +,(cid:133)..+ / t
Where , ,(cid:133)(cid:133)(cid:133).. denote the raw scores corresponding to the percentile P in each of the different sessions
(cid:1873)(cid:1827) (cid:1873)(cid:1829) (cid:1873)(cid:1872) (cid:1873)(cid:1827) (cid:1873)(cid:1828) (cid:1873)(cid:1829) (cid:1873)(cid:1872)
(cid:1873)(cid:1827) (cid:1873)(cid:1829) (cid:1873)(cid:1872) Percentile Score Raw Score S1 Raw Score S2 Raw Score S3 Raw Score S4 Normalized Marks
Candidate
A20020720=B20123935=C20150694=D20479616 100 200 194 188 200 195.5
B20012622=D20040337 99.999041 199.7512409 192 187.9378 194 193.4223
A20411664=C20087997 99.969144 192 171.965 186 171.965 180.4825
A20018569=C20121991 99.831255 190 167.6327 184 167.6327 177.3164
A20339879=C20058572 99.732901 184 164.5426 180 164.5426 173.2713
A20074407=C20060310 99.432054 180 155.0903 172 155.0903 165.5451
B20656224 96.967109 158.958447 100 158.4442 101.9106 129.8283
A20751862=D20467385 88.654575 88 82.58004 112.73 98 95.3275
C20008597 78.338974 56.7810489 60.96241 56 69.7072 60.86266
A20922992 74.137715 48 52.15815 47.20769 58.18432 51.38754
A21004667=B20410215 69.290405 40 42 36.62976 44.8895 40.87982
C20430859 69.00182 39.6972017 38.96855 36 44.098 39.69094
D20398094 68.96609 39.6597121 38.59322 35.96611 44 39.55476
B20236444 67.767255 38.4018305 26 34.82886 43.75353 35.74606
A21141123=C20518247 52.135343 22 17.23122 20 40.5398 24.94276
D20428934 49.50971 20.1081761 15.75836 18.87821 40 23.68619
B20128586=D20032939 46.375115 17.8496346 14 17.53896 32 20.34715
C20045510 38.091932 11.8814266 9.705157 14 31.14103 16.6819
A25465232=C20860609 30.675846 8 5.859905 9 30.37198 13.30797
A26545946=C20861476 27.584445 6 4.257008 5 30.0514 11.3271
B20001667=D20690279 27.08877 5.2651195 4 4.63256 30 10.97442
A25656543=C20512680 24.886459 2 2.614345 3 28.61435 9.057173
B20042147=D20840699 23.91004 1.6148289 2 2.614829 28 8.557414
A26625216=C20069270 22.351432 1 1.733216 2 26.97122 7.926109
D20084751 20.880028 0.374867 1.481359 1.710431 26 7.391664
A26174451 19.997686 0 1.330331 1.536789 25.79696 7.16602
A25463225 15.23523 -1 0.515151 0.599549 24.70105 6.203938
B20051256 12.225608 -4.6428439 0 0.007263 24.00849 4.843228
C20355550=D21237483 12.188701 -4.6875164 -0.12212 0 24 4.797591
B20481968 11.621162 -5.3744647 -2 -1.7857 4.03385 -1.28158
D21077463 11.534925 -5.4788463 -2.76798 -2.05704 1 -2.32597
C20549576 11.23523 -5.8415966 -5.43691 -3 -0.76086 -3.75984
A26598636 11.104361 -6 -6.60235 -3.22238 -1.52978 -4.33863
D20348188 11.02433 -6.24622 -7.31507 -3.35838 -2 -4.72992
B20091701 10.498256 -7.8647146 -12 -4.25232 -3.8221 -6.98478
B20549576 10.394742 -8.1831815 -14 -4.42822 -4.18063 -7.69801
B20098269 10.243051 -8.6498685 -30 -4.68599 -4.70603 -12.0105
C26598636 0.0539983 -39.9970333 -35.9994 -22 -39.9967 -34.4983
A26596462=B20071356=C26596462=D25463225 0.053034 -40 -36 -36 -40 -38
The above method is based on the work: (cid:147)Normalization of marks in multi-session examinations(cid:148), Abhay G. Bhatt et al, CURRENT SCIENCE,
Vol. 118, No. 1, 10 January 2020.
Note: The NTA is planning to do the NCET 2024 examination in a single shift so that the need for Normalization will
not exist. However, under unavoidable circumstances, if any subject is conducted in multi-shifts, then normalization
will be done. The performance of every candidate will be evaluated using the equi-percentile method wherein
normalized marks of each candidate will be calculated using the percentiles of each group of students in a given shift
across multiple days for the same subject.

--- Page 75 ---
 
   

INFORMATION BULLETIN: NATIONAL COMMON ENTRANCE TEST - 2024 v4


--- Page 76 ---
@ ae Tur ees Ti

 

‘A

National Testing Agency

(An autonomous organization under the Department of
Higher Education, Ministry of Education, Government of India)

Help Line: For Technical support, contact following during
working days between 10.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m.

E-mail ID - ncet@nta.ac,in
Website - www.nta.ac.in, ncet.samarth.ac.in

 

Ufferitg UOIPWIOU
