
--- Page 1 ---
   

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU)

BETWEEN

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY GUWAHATI, INDIA

AND

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA, INDIA

In the field of Student Exchange and Research Collaboration

1.0 Preamble -

The NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA herein referred as “NITA”, is one of the 31 (thirty-
one) National Level Technical Institutes setup by the Govt. of India. The Institute’s mission is
"To help to improve the economic development of the country particularly the North-East states and also
the public systems, through pursuit of excellence in technical education, research, consultancy and
training". Presently the Institute offers eight UG courses and PG courses in several fields along with Post

Doctoral Fellowships. This Institute is autonomous under NIT being act passed by the parliament.

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY GUWAHATI herein referred to as “ITG”is an autonomous body
incorporated under the Institute of Technology Act 1961, as amended up-to-date and established in 1994,
having its office at Guwahati, hereby represented by its Director. IIT Guwahati is the only academic
institution in India that occupied a place among the top 100 world universities — under 50 years of age —in
world ranking. It is one of the most dynamic institutions India, with one of the most beautiful educational
campuses in the country that provides an ideal setting for learning and research. The institute is fully
residential for the students, enriched with world-class facilities and is empowered with a young dynamic

faculty and staff

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY GUWAHATI (IITG) and NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA (NITA), here in after collectively referred to as ‘the Parties’ and individually as ‘the Party’.

Page 1 of 4
Mou IITG-NIT Agartala/68

a

 


--- Page 2 ---
2.0 Purpose:

Desiring to promote co-operation in academic education and research.
HAVE REACHED the following understanding:

Article 1: Forms of Cooperation
The Parties envisage the following cooperation within the scope of this Memorandum of Understanding
(MoU):

Article 1.1: Exchange of Students

Organization of study visits and training, participation in Bachelors', Masters’ and Doctoral courses,
recognition of academic credits, guidance and supervision of student's theses and project works. Towards
this purpose, a few scholarships to meet their living expenses partly or wholly may be made available from
both sides.

4. The number of students and time duration will be worked out on a case-to-case basis and will not

*

exceed five in any given semester.

b. The exchange student will be a full-time registered student who has paid his/her fees at the home
institution. They will not be required to pay admission/tuition fees at the host institute. They will
however have to pay mess dues and other payments related to medical insurarice, etc.

c. Participants may not spend more than one year normally in the exchange programme.

d. Participants will be subjected to the rules and regulations of the host institution.

e. The exchange students will be nominated by the home institute and the same will be processed by
the host institution as per laid down procedures. The host institution will evaluate the nominations

and determine their suitability for selection under the Student Exchange Programme.

Article 1.2: Exchange of Faculty members
Planning and handling of academic programs and courses organization of seminars, workshops and

conferences including the exchange of mutual experiences in teaching, research and industrial practice.

Article 1.3: Research Collaboration
Joint programmes in research and developments including exchange of publication and reports may be
conducted under the following guidelines.
1. Proposals for joi nt-collaborative research work between the parties under this Memorandum
will be submitted with the prior approval of the Head of each institution, or his/her nominee.
> ach institution will nominate one of its members as its representative in-charge of the
cooperative programme. Individual programme of work under this Memorandum will be
jointly planned and conducted by the nominees of both parties.
3. Progress of work of any individual programme will be reviewed and approved by designated
authorities of both parties.

4. The final approval of any project will depend on the availability of guaranteed support funds.
Page 2 of 4
MoU lITG-NIT Agartala/68

Giant Has wt TONY


--- Page 3 ---
Article 1.5: Centre of Excellence
Creation of Centre of Excellence in specialized fields of mutual interest in science, engineering, technology,

management and humanities.

Article 1.6: Others
To jointly organize short-term continuing education programmes, to organize seminars, conferences, or
workshops on topics of mutual interest, and invite faculty members from both the institutions to participate

therein.

Article 2: Specific Co-Operation Projects

Specific co-operation projects shall be negotiated separately between the Parties and in each specific case
shall be established as separate written agreements, stating the respective rights and obligations of the
Parties. Such an agreement for collaboration or exchange programmes will be legitimised by the completion
of a specific MoU. In case of any ambiguity or disagreement between the terms and conditions of this MoU
and those of the separate agreement as mentioned above, the terms and conditions of such separate

agreement shall prevail over the terms of this MoU.

Article 3: Financial Obligations

There will be no financial obligations on both the Parties under this agreement.

Article 4: General Coordinators
Each Party shall designate an administrative office to oversee, and facilitate the implementation of any

agreements arising out of this MoU. National regulations and customs shall be mutually respected.

Article 5: Arbitration Clause

TG and NITA agree to respect each other's right to intellectual property. Further, all rights linked to ideas,
inventions and patents generated during the Mou, shall remain the common intellectual property of the
Parties. The Parties shall not pass on or give usage rights of such property to any third party without the

consent of the other party.

Article 6: Dispute Settlement

Any dispute, controversy, or claim arising out of or in relation to this MoU, including the validity, invalidity,
breach or termination thereof, shall be settled by the parties amicably through mutual consultations and
negotiations.

Article 7: Liability
Except for loss or damages caused through gross negligence or intent, the Parties shall have no liability to
each other hereunder.

Page 3 of 4
Mou IITG-NIT Agartala/68

oo?

 


--- Page 4 ---
Article 8: Legal Relationship

 

This MoU shall be construed as a statement of purpose to promote a genuine and mutually beneficial

collaboration between the Parties. Nothing in this MoU shall be constructed to create any legal relationship

between the Parties.

Article 9: Coming into Force, Amendment and Termination

This MoU shall come into force from the date of its signatures and shall remain valid for a period of 5 years,

This MoU may be modified, renewed or extended with the mutual written consent of the Parties. Either

party may terminate this MoU by giving six (6) months’ notice in writing to the other Party.

IN WITNESS THEREOFF, both the parties have caused this MoU to be signed by their duly authorized

representatives.

Signed on behalf of
Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati

OM tren | WAS
Prof. Gautam Biswas
Director
Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati,
Assam - 7810339, India

Date: 4 A \
Place: N | } A a. tala
Witnessed by:

Ravi Mokashi Punekar
Dean Alumni & External Relations &
Professor in the Department of Design

Signed:

Date:

Signed on behalf of i
National Institute of Technology Agartala

i

Prof. Ajoy Kumar Ray
Director

NIT Agartala

Tripura - 799046

Date: [bh /I

place MIT Agantala,

Witnessed by:
Dr. Prasun Chakraborty

Dean Alumni Affairs & Institutional Relations

Signed:

Date:

Page 4 of 4
Mou IITG-NIT Agartala/68
