
--- Page 1 ---
grKd<.n
fi-efrffi
<r*{r €{errq
National lnstitute of Technology, Agartala
Jirania, TriPUra, lndia, Pin -799046
ffirl-:(za-
oneqnPwzots
NOTIFICATION
The lntellectual Property Right Policy (2020) of NITA is approved by the competent
lutlorityviaenoteno.4lofthefiIebearingno.F.NlTA.3l(28-DR&c)^PM019and
hereby notilied w.e f. the date of approval i e 22'03 202 1 '
Aaz4z4z-
R€gkt r
Ag'rt'l'
N.tlon.l lNtitutc of T'chtroloB/
Copy tol
1. P.S to the Director for kind information pletse'
NITA, for kind informafion please'
2, The Deon(R&C)
3. * A " ll the mcmbers w o e f b tP o R ite P o & li o N y c N tw IT o A rk i f r o & r in N fo IT rm A a t f io o n r ' araanging the uploading of the salne in th€
O. "n ^-,
lnstitute's wcbsile. Zz'.f'zP-'.-
Z?)a
L z
Regiltrar
National Institute of Technology Agartala

--- Page 2 ---
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHT POLICY
(2020)
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARATLA, TRIPURA (WEST)

--- Page 3 ---
1. IPR. NITA CORE COMMITTEE MEMBERS
l. Dr. Ardhendu Saha, Professor, Department of& Dean (R&C), Chairman
2. Dr. Baby Bhattacharya, Associate Professor & HOD, Department ofMathematics,
Convenor
3. Dr Mitali Saha, Associate Professor & HoD, Depanment ofChemistry, Member
4. Dr Subhadeep Bhattacharjee, Associate Professor & HOD, Department ofElectrical
Engineering, Member
5. Dr Suvra Prakash Mondal, Assistant Professor, Department of Physics, Member
2. IPR. NITA INVITEE MEMBERS
l. Dr. Partha Pratim Sarkar, Associate Professor, Department ofCivil Engineering
2. Dr. Srimanta Ray, Assistant Professor & HOD, Department ofchemical
Engineering
3, Dr. Ashim Saha, Assistant Professor, Department ofcomputer Science and
Engineering
4. Dr. Biswanath Bhunia, Assistant Professor, Department ofBioengineering
3. rpR, srANDtNG eQn4rllITIEE (IEBSC
-
l. Ex -Officio- Dean(R&C) Chairman
-
2.Associate Dean(R&C) Member
-
3. Director's Nominee Member
-
4. Two members from IPR Cell (o benominsted bv the Chairman) Member
-
5. Chairman lncubation & Stan-up Cell, NITA Member-Secretary.
This IPR Standing Committee will be formed by Dean(R&C), as the Ex-oflicio Chairman of
theCommitiee.ThislPRSCwillberesponsiblefordetailedformationofprocedure,policydecisions
and amendment of IPR policy to facilitate implementation ofthe IPR policy ofNITA'

--- Page 4 ---
INTRODUCTION
National Institute of Technology Aga(ala (hereafter relefted to as 'NITA') is an academic
lnstitute dedicated to excellence in teaching and research. Its activities, centred on
faculty/students/ /project staff/ supporting staff/visitors are based on knowledge and
intellectual exercise. ln the era of technology domination, where values and perceptions
change at brisk pace, National Institutes of Technology, in particular, have to preserve the
fundamental spirit of academics on one hand and have to march ahead, on the other,
accepting changing realities of business economy based on knowledge generated, protected
and disseminated under the intellectual property regime. In the evolving scenario ofthe world
today, with incrcasing awareness of the 'knowledge asset', an lntellectual Property Rights
(lPR) Policy is needed not only to prcserve the interest of NITA but also to make NITA
faculty/students /project staff/ supporting staffl visitors aware of'knowledge asset and its
impact on the society'.
OBJECTIVES
The objectives ofthe policy are as follows:
a.
To create awareness among the students, staffand facuity likewise about the IP
b. To provide an encoumging environment for research and development for generation
oflP to the faculty, students and other researchers associated with NIT Aga(ala.
c. To provide support in every possible way to the inventors ofthe lP associated with
NITA and safeguard the IP developed.
d. To formulate the regulations and guidelines regarding ownership of the IP and
fevenue shadng upon commercial exploitation ofthe IB
e. Toprovide legal support to the inventors against any case ofunauthorized use oflP
DEFINITIONS
l. "Intellectual property" is dctined as thc tangiblc or intangible results of research,
development, teaching, or other intellectual activity and includes patents. copyrights, designs,
trademarks, service marks, logos etc. Any additional information regarding these intellectual
prope(ies can be obtained from the website of Controller General of Patents, designs and
trademarks.

--- Page 5 ---
2. "Copyright" means the exclusive right granted by law tbr a certain period of timc to an
author to reproduce, print, publish and sell copies of his or her creative work. Copyright
protection is available for most literary. musical, dranratic. and othet types ofcrealive work,
including software. teaching materials, multimedia works. proposals, and research reports.
3. "Creator" means any employee of the NI]A and includes those who are on probation.
those who are employed on temporary basis wither in the institute and/ or in projects and
those who arc research workers, research scholars or students who are responsible for the
creation ofan lntellectual Property. using the facilities ofthe Institute.
4. "Iovetrtor" is the person/s who has something new with utilization oftheir creative minds.
5. "Patent" means a patent granted under the provision ofthe Indian Patent Ac! 1970.
(Patentee"
6. means the person for the time being entered on the Register of Patents kePt
under the Indian PatentsAct, 2002 as the generator or proprietor ofthe patent.
7. "Revenue" is any payment received as per an agreement by the Institute usually for legal
use ofan Intellectual Property through a license.
(Tladernark"
8. is a distinctive word, symbol or picture or a combination ofthese, which is
used by a business entity to discriminate its products and services from those of other
business entities.
EVALUATION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
The evaluation committee comprised of the tPR Standing Committee members along with
the HOD of the respective Departments and invitee members having expertise in the
relevant fields will be responsible for clarification of the issues/appeals related to IPR
patent/copy write application, formulating the procedures of filling and to ensure the
compliance of IPR policy of NITA following the legislations covering IPRs in India. Legal
Advisor as invitee member may be included by the chairman ofthe commiftee as and when
required, The Chairman IPRSC will form the evaluation committee on case to case basis.
The fwrction oflPR Evaluation Commiltee \roulcl be thelollowing:
a) To assess the proposals for filing oflPR .
b) Finalize the procedures and guidelines lor the effective implementation of the IPR
policy at NITA.
c) Track the various IPs filed using MIS facility available at the institute for speedy IP
process if Nqtircd 8ind to facilitate IP protection by drafting agreements'

--- Page 6 ---
d) To collaborate with organizations for filing licensing/assigning of IPR to generate
revenue through commercialization. Efrorts may be made for the commercialization
ofthe patent through saft-up cell of NIT Agartala as far as possible.
e) To implement the IPR policy in a proactive manner for the shared benefits ofboth the
inventor and i.stitute, identification and repo(ing of issues related to the violation of
IPR policy ofthe Institute to the Director for necessary action.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OWItf, RSHIP
a)
NIT Agartala will have the ownership rights on the IP that is developed by the
students, faculty, staff, or any extemal p€rsonnel who not related to the institute
but uses significant resources (funds or facilities) available with the institr.rte
with due recognition to the inventors ofthe IP and protection ofthe ownership
rights of the inventor(s). NIT Agartala will work towards protection through
legal means ofall IP related to academic or professional field ofthe inventor(s)
regardless ofthe medium ofexpression when the inventor(s) is employed by the
lnslitute and the IP shall be jointly owned by the inventor/creator
/originator/author and the Institute. ln case the lP was created by the inventor
/creator/originator/author - when the Institute accepted terms are differcnt from
that stated her€in, the t€rms agreed to shall prevail.
b) However. in case a payment has been made by $e individual to rhe instirute for
utilization offacilities, NITA cannot claim the exclusivity in the ownership and
hence an agrcement on mutual accord can be reached that providos joint
ownership rights to the inventor and NITA.
ln case when an IP is developed/generated from research projects sponsored by
govemment/ non-govemment agencies will be owned by the creator(s), the
Principal Investigator or Chief Consultant, the Institute and the sponsoring
agency. The sponsoring agency will have to bear 50% of the protection cost or
forgo the righls to the lP ln case the project was accepted by the Institute under
terms different fiom that stated herein, the terms agreed to shall prevail. IP
developed as a part of work that has been funded by extemal agencies or
consultancy, then a joint owneNhip must be established with proper rights to
license the innovation.
d) ln issues of copyrightable mate al such as Patent software, lectures (video
lectures), books, circuit designs, images, etc developed by NITA personnel for

--- Page 7 ---
use by extemal agency or industry' the institute shall claim the rights for the
ownership of the IP However, the developers shall be free to use the IP for
research and teaching purposes by reverse license agreement with NITA. Also,
NITA reserves the right to use the IP for academic purposes
e) In case when IP is related to transfer of biological resource and associated
knowledge, inventor(s) has/have to ensure that the provisions under the national
laws on biodiversity and traditional knowledge are not violated during the
course of securing any IP protection or use of such knowledge. NITA aflirms
that it abides with the national laws on biodiversity and traditional knowledge.
0 The inventor/developer/creator/originator of the IP shall hold the ownership
rights if the tP is developed beyond the regular assigned work or normal
professional duty or employment contract or without any significant use of
institute's resources and facilities ln case the IP was created by the
inventor/creator/originator/author when the Institute accepted terms are dillerent
from that stated herein, the terms ageed to shall prevail.
8) For thesis and dissertation reports related to academic activity, both student and
mentor/supervisor will hold the ownership rights However, both should give a
royalty-free right to NITA to use the reports for academic purposes, as and when
required. A declaration for the same must be included in the thesis/dissertation
properly siSned by the student, mentot or superyisor' Moreover, in case an
application has been made for grant of IP and not yet granted, an agreement for
thesis/ dissertation confidentiality at the time of thesis/ dissertation submission
should also be included.
CONFIDENTIALITY AND RIGHTS
a) For IP p.oduced at NITA, the inventors interested to protect their intellectual creations
under IP law ofthe land will be required to disclose their lP to the IPR Cell ofNITA
b) The institute may appoint an advocate/attorney to draft the IPR application as
appropriate for the invention ifrequired.
c) All fees related to the IPR (patent, copy right' Trademark), process (filling' Request
for examination etc.), IP databases, IP search, prior art etc may be born from Institute
fund (Overhead cost of funded Research Projects) Any legal fees (lawyer' attomey'
agent etc.) may be borne by Institute subiect to the recommendation of IPRSC and
approval/discretion of the authorit)

--- Page 8 ---
d) In any case, if the evaluation committee decides against the lP evaluation, all these
costs have to be bome by the inventor personally, in that NITA will agee to forgo the
ownership to the inventor, provided that substantial institute's resources are not
involved in the IP, The inventors, both NITA and non-NITA personnel, shall maintain
confidentiality of the IP during the period when efforts are made for p.otecting and
comme.c ialization ofthe IP.
e) Funds provided partially or fully by a third-party to NITA will be as per rules based
on the contract been the third party and NITA.
DISCLOSURES AI{D CONTIDENTIALITY
Folloving prccedule should be fullowedfor disclosure ofthe IP by lhe inwntors.
a) For all the IP produced and developed at the institute, i.e. NITA, the inventors have to
disclose the IP to Dean (R&C) in a proper format (lP disclosure form) ifthe inventor
choose to protect their intellectual creations under lP law of the land. Along with this
disclosure, the inventors would need to assign the rights of the lP to NITA as per lP
Ownership Right described earlier in this document. Similarly, the students of the
institute arc expected to submit their IP disclosure form along with their thesis work
(B.Tech, BSMS, MSc, M.Tech or PhD) properly signed and lorwarded by their
supervisor and followed by head of the depanment to Dean R&C. It would be the
responsibility ofthe institute to maintain the confidentiality ofthe IB once it has been
submitted to the committee for evaluation/assessment/filing and possibility of
commercialization.
b) For all the IP generating from the externally funded projects and collaborative project,
the lP disclosure shall be done as per the terms and conditions ofthe contract. In case,
where such terms and conditions of the contmct is not in place, the institute policy
shallprevail.
REVEI\ruE SHARING
a)
Upon commercialization ofthe intetlectual property developed at the institute, the
revenue generated from the royalty payments would be shared between the
institute and the inventors.
b) In case ofowner/multiple owners ofthe IP other than the institute, the owners and
the Institute shall come to an agreement before filing the lP as to how to share the
revenue. In case of multiple originators ofan lB ifthe inventors/originators fail to
arrive at a consensus, the tPR Cell will analyze all available information and make

--- Page 9 ---
a recommendation about the revenue sharing to the Director, NITA The decision
ofthe Director, NITA shall be final and binding .
c) NITA reserves the right to determine the share of the different stakeholders
involved in IP creation and dissemination from time to time. Revenue share of
the inventor(s) shall continue even after their association with NITA ends.
POLICY FOR IP LICENSING AI\D ASSIGNING FOR STARTEUP I'ENTIJRES
WITH INVOLVEMENT OF INVENTOR(S) FROM NITA
In order to encourage commercialization of IP registered and owned by NITA, inventor(s) of
such IPs shall be encouraged to promote a sta( up company (following the guidelines
established by NITA) for developing a business proposition leveraging the IP under
consideration. For this purpose, the start up can also be accommodated at the Technology
Business Incubator Unit (TBIU) / Innovation Park/ Research Park at NITA, if so desired by
the Invento.(s), after critical appraisal of the Business Plan following the applicable
procedures, ifany framed by NITA.
The sta( ups in the specified instances shall be licensed IPs owned by NITA on a limited
exclusivity basis initially for a period of3 years. The licensing fee may be decided depending
on the nature of funding available for such a venture including the possibility of making the
know how/technology available, even without any license fee in a particular case. Howevel
all such licensing should be accompanied by an appropriate agreement and a monitoring
mechanism. During the limited exclusivity period, the start up shall have'no rights to give
sub license'to any third party.
Once the start up venture establishes the commercial viability within the said exclusivity
period, the license agreement shall be revised and modified into exclusive over an extended
period mutually decided for a royalty consideration by the parties. In case the sta( up fails to
achieve commercial breakthrough within the allotted period, the exclusivity ofthe license to
the start up shall be forfeited.
Further, as any entity set up under the TBIU is an independent commercial entity, NITA
would not have any rights to IP/Know how developed within the entity unless covered by an
explicit agreement.

--- Page 10 ---
CONFLICT OF TNTERST, DISPUTES AND JURISDICTION
a) lt is the responsibility of the inventors to disclose any conflict of interest or potential
conflict of interest to the evaluation comminee prior to applying for examination/
consideration. ln case ol any dispute. the aggrieved party may contact the Direclor
NITA. In all circumstances, the decision taken by the Director NITA would be final and
abiding by all.
b) The invento(s) may appeal to lhe Director NITA on the occurrence of any disputes between
N ITA and the invenlors regarding ihe implementaiion o f lhe I PR policy The Direclo's de€ision
woukl be final and binding on both inslilute and inventor' All the agreements or contracls
signed by NITA will be under the j urisdiction ofCou(s al Agartala only'

--- Page 11 ---
ANNEXURE J
Intellectusl property disclosure form
Title ofthe lnvention
.
Name and AlJilialion oflnvento(s)
Brief description of the itrverttiotr
Describe the invention so that the other faculty who are knowledgeable in the field can
evaluate the technical and commercial merits ofthe invention.
a) How does this invention relate to new processes, machines, compositions of matter?
b) How is the present invention an improvement over existing comparable invention?
c)
Has the invention been tested experimentally? Are experimental data available?
d) Has invention been patented or protected under confidentiality agreement?
(Please attach sketches, drawing, photographs and other materials that illustrate the
description).
Commercial Potential
a) What are the possible uses / application areas and / or product you feel may embody
aspects of Your invention?
b) Who is the possible end -users ofthe product?
Prior disclosure and possible Intent
a) Has the invention been disclosed to industry representatives or third parties? ifyes,
Name companies and specific individuals and their titles.
b) Has any commercial interest been shown in it and of what nature?
10

--- Page 12 ---
UNDERTAKING
I /we the undersigned, hereby certify that the work
has been undertaken by the undersigned at NITA, making use ofsignificant use ofNITA
resources,
I/ We hereby a$ee to abide by the provision ofthe intellectuat property policy ofthe
lnstitute.
(Month),_
Signed this day of
(Year)_
Name:
Address:
11