
--- Page 1 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Barjala, Jirania, Agartala – 799046 (Tripura)
No.: NITA.70/(9-Chairman AR&IR)/MoA/TEXMIN/2025/L-2 Dated: 2nd June, 2025
POSITION for Centre In-Charge – TEXMiN-NIT Agartala Mining CPS Centre of Excellence (CoE)
Position Center In-Charge
NumberofPosition(s) 01
Posted By NIT Agartala
Location Tripura
SponsoringAgency TEXMiNFoundation, IIT (ISM) Dhanbad
Tenure Initially for a period of 1 years or till project tenure
(Renewable/extendable based on annual performance)
Job Description  Drive the CoE’s vision, annual goals, and innovation roadmap aligned with
TEXMiN’s mission, focusing on digital, sustainable, and smart mining.
 Coordinate proposal calls and oversee the execution of R&D and technology
development projects, ensuring timely evaluations, milestone tracking,
documentation, and impactful reporting to stakeholders.
 Manage fellowship programs and mentor students and researchers engaged in
innovation-driven initiatives.
 Organize hackathons, workshops, and ideathons; promote IP generation; and
support product development and technology transfer with an industry focus.
 Act as a bridge for furtherance and launch of schemes and programs as
mutually decided betweenTEXMiNand NIT Agartala.
Essential Qualifications  First Class Bachelor’s degree in Mining, Mechanical, Electronics, Computer
Science, or allied engineering branches from a reputed institute with
minimum 3 years of relevant experience.
OR
 First Class Master’s degree in Engineering/Technology/Innovation
Management or equivalent with minimum 2 years of relevant experience.
Essential Experience  Proven record of leading interdisciplinary projects, industrial partnerships,
and entrepreneurial initiatives. AND/OR
 Experience in research coordination, innovation program management,
incubation/start-up support, or project execution. AND/OR
 Exposure to mining technologies or Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) like IoT,
AI/ML, robotics, automation, etc., is desirable. AND/OR
 Understanding of IP management, technology transfer, and stakeholder
engagement.
Desirable Profile  Leadership skills with strategic planning capabilities.
 Strong communication, team-building abilities, stakeholder engagement, and
organizational development skills.
 Proven experience in managing interdisciplinary technology programs and
academic-industry collaboration.
Maximum Age limit 40 years
Salary Total Rs. 45,000 per month (consolidated)
Method of Recruitment Online/Offline
Apply to texmin.nitacoe2025@gmail.com
Last Date & Time June 15th , 2025
 Prospective candidates are required to send a copy of their updates cv along with enclosing copies of the
relevant supporting documents regarding age, essential qualification, experience, desirable profile etc.
through emailwithin the due date. Email: texmin.nitacoe2025@gmail.com
Barjala, Jirania, Agartala- 799046, India, website- www.nita.ac.in