
--- Page 1 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

 

F.NITA/38/(195-ChE) /2023/SERB Project/KG/Manpower Dated: / /2024

Recruitment of Junior Research Fellow (JRF)/Project Assistant (PA) for the
research project funded by Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB),
Government of India.

Applications are invited from interested and motivated candidates for the post of
Junior Research Fellow (JRF) )/Project Assistant (PA) under the sponsored research
project. The details of the project and the post for recruitment are given below:

Position: Junior Research Fellow (JRF) / Project Assistant (PA)
Number of Vacancy: | JRF - 01 (One) / PA -02 (two)

Project Title: Production of natural edible pigments (chlorophyll) from
isolated microalgae: Pilot scale study and techno-economic
analysis

Funding Agency: Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB),

ae Government of India

Principal Dr. Kalyan Gayen

Department: Department of Chemical Engineering, NIT Agartala, PO -
NIT Agartala, West Tripura, Tripura

Essential A. Junior Research Fellow (JRF)

Qualification: Essential: Post Graduate Degree in Basic Science OR
Graduate / Post Graduate Degree in Professional Course
selected through a process descried through any one of
the following:

a) Scholars who are selected through National Eligibility
Tests - CSIR-UGC NET including lectureship
(Assistant Professorship) and GATE

b) The selection process through National level
examinations conducted by Central Government
Departments and their Agencies and Institutions such
as DST, DBT, DAE, DOS, DRDO, MoE, ICAR, ICMR,
IIT, IISc, ISER, NISER etc

Desirable: B. Tech / M. Tech in Chemical Engineering

/Biotechnology / allied discipline or M.Sc in

Chemistry/Biochemistry / Biotechnology / Microbiology

/ Science background is encourage to apply.

B. Project Assistant (PA):

Graduation in in Chemical Engineering /Biotechnology /

allied discipline or M.Sc in Chemistry/Biochemistry /

Biotechnology / Microbiology / Science background

Job Description: JRF/PA is expected to execute the project by planning,

National Institute of Technology Agartala
West Tripura, Tripura - 799046
Web: www.nita.nic.in.

     
        
  

 
     

  

 

 
          
    
 

  
    

      
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

@


--- Page 2 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

experimentation, data analysis, report and manuscript
writing within specified time.
Fellowship: JRF - Rs. 37,000/- per month
eee PA - Rs. 20,000/- per month
02.07. 2024; Time: 11:30 AM

Mode of Interview: | Hybrid. (Offline Venue- Department of Chemical
Engineering, NIT Agartala; Online: Google
Meet/Zoom/ Microsoft Team)

 

   
 

 
 
  

  
      
    
   

   

How to apply and selection process: Candidates have to appear in the Walk in
Interview along with an application as per format given. Selection will be based on
the performance of the candidate in the interview.

Advance copy of Application from / CV may be sent to the Principal Investigator.

For any clarification, contact: Dr. Kalyan Gayen (Principal Investigator)
Email: kgayen123@gmail.com; Phone: 8974727421

National Institute of Technology Agartala

Qe West Tripura, Tripura - 799046
Web: www.nita.nic.in.

@


--- Page 3 ---
 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Terms and Conditions

The position is purely on temporary basis and will be governed by the
administrative rules, conditions imposed by Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT
Agartala.

A,

Za:

10.

Ly.

Candidates before appearing for the interview shall ensure that they are
eligible for the position they intend to apply.

Interested candidate should send their filled application including photograph
and signed scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications and
a statement of interest on or before 02.07.2024. The application should be
sent to Dr. Kalyan Gayen, Associate Professor, Department of Chemical
Engineering, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Agartala, Tripura, India or
through e-mail at kgayen123@gmail.com

The project duration is from 3 years for the position and is co-terminus with
the project.

No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of
selection. Institute reserves the right to cancel the process at any point of
time without assigning any reason.

Candidate shall bring along with them the original documents and experience
certificate(s) at the time of joining for verification.

Appointment will be temporary in nature and as per the Institute terms and
conditions.

Only shortlisted candidates will be informed through email provided in the
application form for interview, upon selection engagement letter will be sent
through the email.

The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information,
documents and photographs submitted.

The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning
any reason.

The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register
for PhD program at Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of
Technology (NIT) Agartala. However, for admission to PhD program, the
candidate must meet certain eligibility requirements as per the Ph.D. rules
2018 of NIT Agartala.

The temporary engagement can be terminated without assigning any reason.

Sd/

Dean(R&C)
NIT Agartala

National Institute of Technology Agartala
West Tripura, Tripura - 799046
Web: www.nita.nic.in.

&


--- Page 4 ---
*

Yea SPINA

National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Jirania,Tripura, India, Pin —799046

APPLICATION FORM

Recent passport
size color

photography
affixed

Name of the Applicant
Father’s/Husband’s Name
Nationality

Date of Birth

Category (SC/ST/OBC/GEN/EWS)
Gender (Male/Female)

Marital Status

NET Qualified (Yes/No)

GATE Qualified (Yes/No)

Title of the project undertaken in
M.Tech /M.Sc./B.Tech

Research Experience (If any) (Attached
Certificate)

Aadhar No. (attach copy of Aadhar
Card)

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No, +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in

 


--- Page 5 ---
14. Educational Qualification (Higher School onwards) (Attached Certificate) :

15. List of SCI Journal:
16. List of Scopus Journal:
17. List of Conference Paper:

18. Book/Book Chapter/Patent:

UNDERTAKING

I hereby declare that all the information furnished above is true, correct and complete to the best of
my knowledge and belief.

Signature of the Candidate

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in

 
