
--- Page 1 ---
 

 

F.NITA/38/(157-ChE) /2021/CSIR/Manpower

TST Weal AI SETReT

National Institute of Technology Agartala

AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

Dated: / /20

Applications are invited from interested and motivated candidates for the post of

Junior Research Fellow

(JRF) in a time bound research project for a temporary

period, purely on contractual basis in the Department of Chemical Engineering,
NIT Agartala.as per following details.

 

| Position:
Number of Vacancy:

01 (One)

 

Project Title:

Funding Agency:

Development of an integrated process for co-production
of biobutanol from sugarcane trash and lignin
nanoparticles (LNPs) as green carrier for bactericidal
agent

Council of scientific and industrial Research (CSIR),
Government of India

 

Principal Investigator: {I

Dr. Kalyan Gayen
Email: kgayen123@gmail.com; Phone: 8974727421

 

 

Department:

 

Department of Chemical Engineering, NIT Agartala, PO
~ NIT Agartala, West Tripura, Tripura

 

Project Tenure:
Job Description:

03 (three years)

JRF is expected to execute the project by planning,
experimentation, data analysis, report and manuscript
writing within specified time.

 

 

—
Essential Qualification:

 

B.S. 4 years programme/ B. Pharm /M.B.B.S/
Integrated B.S.-M.S./M.Sc/B.E./B. Tech or equivalent
degree with 55% marks and passing of NET-LS/GATE
test (as per CSIR-HRDG guidelines)

Desirable: B. Tech / M. Tech in Chemical Engineering
/Biotechnology / allied discipline or M.Sc in
Chemistry / Biochemistry if Biotechnology /
Microbiology / Science background is encourage to

apply.

 

 

The upper limit is relaxable up to 5 years in case of
candidates belonging to SC/Tribes/OBC, Women and

 

Age limit: 28 years
ae relaxation:
_ physically handicapped candidates
Fellowship: Rs. 31,000/ per month

 

Date of Interview:

26.03. 2024; Time: 11:30 AM

 

| Mode of Interview:

 

Hybrid. (Offline Venue- Department of Chemical
Engineering, NIT Agartala; Online: Google
Meet/Zoom/ Microsoft Team)

 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
West Tripura, Tripura - 799046
Web: www.nita.nic.in.

Junior Research Fellow (JRF)

—

@


--- Page 2 ---
TST Waal BI SPAM

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799 046 (TRIPURA)

 

How to apply and selection process: Candidates have to appear in the Walk in

Interview along with an application/CV on plain paper giving details of all
educational qualifications, experience, contact address, phone no., E - mail etc.
and submit photocopies of relevant documents at the time of interview. Selection
will be based on the performance of the candidate in the interview.

Advance copy of CV may be sent to the Principal Investigator.
For any clarification, contact: Dr. Kalyan Gayen (Principal Investigator)
Email: kgayen123@gmail.com; Phone: 8974727421

Terms and Conditions

The position is purely on temporary basis and will be governed by the

administrative rules, conditions imposed by Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT

Agartala.

1. Candidates before appearing for the interview shall ensure that they are
eligible for the position they intend to apply.

2. Interested candidate should send their filled application including photograph
and signed scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications and
a statement of interest on or before 26.03.2024. The application should be
sent to Dr. Kalyan Gayen, Assistant Professor, Department of Chemical
Engineering, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Agartala, Tripura, India or
through e-mail at kgayen123@gmail.com

3. The project duration is from 3 years for the position and is co-terminus with
the project.

4. No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of
selection. Institute reserves the right to cancel the process at any point of
time without assigning any reason.

5. Candidate shall bring along with them the original documents and experience
certificate(s) at the time of joining for verification.

6. Appointment will be temporary in nature and as per the Institute terms and
conditions.

7. Only shortlisted candidates will be informed through email provided in the
application form for interview, upon selection engagement letter will be sent
through the email.

8. The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information,
documents and photographs submitted.

9. The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning
any reason.

10. The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register
for PhD program at Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of
Technology (NIT) Agartala. However, for admission to PhD program, the
candidate must meet certain eligibility requirements as per the Ph.D. rules
2018 of NIT Agartala.

11. The temporary engagement can be terminated without assigning any reason.

Sd/

Dean(R&C)
NIT Agartala

National Institute of Technology Agartala
West Tripura, Tripura - 799046
Web: www.nita.nic.in.


--- Page 3 ---
a
‘
}

 

 
   

National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Jirania,Tripura, India, Pin —799046

 

 

 

  

APPLICATION FORM
Recent passport
size color

Application for the post Of .........:ccceseeceesecseseeseeneseeaeeeenesseneetaeeassesien photography

affixed

Advt. NO.t cc cccccceeeeeeee eee eeeeeeeees Dated:.......:esceeer eee eee

1 Name of the Applicant

2 Father’s/Husband’s Name

3 Nationality

4 Date of Birth

5 Category (SC/ST/OBC/GEN/EWS)

6 Gender (Male/Female)

7 Marital Status

8 NET Qualified (Yes/No)

9 GATE Qualified (Yes/No)

10 ‘Title of the project undertaken in
M.Tech /M.Sc./B.Tech

11 Research Experience (If any) (Attached
Certificate)

12. Aadhar No. (attach copy of Aadhar
Card)

13. Present AGAreSS .....cccccsccceecceeeeeneeeneeeceaseeneeenarossunesenessesesaueeaananeseen ren enssaeeegaeees
arash sen atu-cvew-atate enecnnueceniesnsen pncens CSECORE ASAP SRA ATE Pink Code? nn. sscesssauesiunemeeaewnenees
E-mail ID: ......ccccccec eee ee eee een e nent eee n en ee ean aes Phone/Mobile Nou: .......cceseseereeeeeeeee ences

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in

 


--- Page 4 ---
a a o

14. Educational Qualification (Higher School onwards) (Attached Certificate) :
passing

15. List of SCI Journal:

16. List of Scopus Journal:
17. List of Conference Paper:

18. Book/Book Chapter/Patent:

UNDERTAKING

| hereby declare that all the information furnished above is true, correct and complete to the best of
my knowledge and belief.

Signature of the Candidate
Date? scciirinediaeevess
PIGGO? Cece eseaspenvseues

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in

 

 

 

 
