
--- Page 1 ---
     
   
      

National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Jirania,Tripura, India, Pin —-799046

Adve. Nos 2 soa Le ade AST EES oC Datedep pant te ee ae
F.NITA.38/189-ChE/2022/SR/Project Proposal/Proposal-1/NTFP/Part-2/JRF
Recruitment of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) for the funded research project

Applications are invited for the post of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) under the sponsored
research project. The details of the project and the post for recruitment are given below:

   
 

 

Title of the Project : Microbial assessment for developing inoculums for artificially
infecting agarwood tree for sustainable agar cultivation in Tripura and
north-east region

Funding Agency : NTFP-NCE, Govt of Tripura
Project duration : 04 years.
Principal Investigator : Dr. Srimanta Ray, Dept. of Chemical Engg.

Monthly : INR 31,000/- Year 1&2 and INR 35,000/- - Year 3 onwards
Emolument (Candidate with GATE qualification may be entitled to higher emoluments as per DST
Office Memorandum dated 26 June 2023, subject to approval of funding agency)

Essential Qualifications : First Class Master Degree in Life Science/ Biotechnology/
Microbiology/ Botany/Biochemistry or any other allied
subjects with hands-on skill/knowledge of Microbial
isolation and characterization and Molecular Biology/
Biotechnological Techniques.

Desirable Qualifications 1. Candidates with experience in skill/knowledge related
to plant biotechnology/culture will be preferred.
2. Preference will be given to applicants with publication
in Scopus/SC] indexed journal in the related field.
3. Preference will be given to applicants with experience
in the related field.
4. Willing for field visit and travelling, if needed.

Description of responsibilities : Developing microbial inoculums, isolation and characterization.
Date of Interview (Walking Date of Interview: 20.06.2024 (tentative and may subject to change)
interview online/offline, place, _ Mode: Online

date to be mentioned) (Reporting Date Time and Link will be informed by email)

Selection Process: Presentation followed by Interview
Venue: Online.

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in

GE Scanned with OKEN Scanner


--- Page 2 ---
Terms and Conditions:

The position is purely on tem : ;
. porary basis and will be a eC ti
imposed by Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Agata Oo BS deceive Fe eres

 

1. vin before appearing for the interview shall ensure that they are cligible for the position
y Intend to apply. Mere fulfilling the criteria does not entitle the candidate for shortlisting or

selection. For shortlisting the decision of the Project Investigator and for the selection the decision
of the selection panel will be the final binding for all.

Interested candidate should send their — (i) filled application including photograph and signed, (ii)
annexure referred in the application (iii) scan copy of educational qualifications, (iv) research
publications, (v) experience, (vi) skills acquired related to advertisement and (vii) statement of
interest for the position latest by 17.06.2024. The application received on later date till the date of
interview may also be considered, if the application is found suitable for the project by the PI.

The application should be sent (as a single PDF) to Dr. Srimanta Ray,
Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Agartala, Tripura,
India through e-mail at srimanta.chemical@nita.ac.in

 

3. No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection. Institute
reserves the right to cancel the process at any point of time without assigning any reason.

4. Candidate appearing through online mode shall bring all documents submitted online along with
them including the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience certificate(s) at the time of joining
for verification.

5. Only shortlisted candidates will be informed through email provided in the application form for
interview, upon selection engagement letter will be sent through the email.

6. The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information, documents and photographs
submitted,

7. The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason.

oo

. Appointment will be temporary in nature and as per the Institute terms and conditions. The
continuation of appointment will be based on satisfactory annual performance appraisal. The
temporary engagement can be terminated without assigning any reason.

-

The position is co-terminus with the project duration. In the event of the JRF wish to leave before
completing of the tenure, he/she will be required to submit at least three months’ notice in advance
from the planned date of leaving the project and in the event of failure he/she may be required to
refund the stipend drawn by him/her from the date of joining to the date of leaving the project.

10. The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register for the PhD program
at the Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology (NIT) Agartala.
However, for admission to the PhD program, the candidate has to meet the eligibility
requirements as per the Ph.D rules 2018 of NIT Agartala.

Sd/

Dean(R&C)
NIT Agartala

National Institute of Technology Agartala

Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in

GE Scanned with OKEN Scanner


--- Page 3 ---
 

APPLICATION FORM

POOR PURPOSES ICCOCTOCC IOS

National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Jirania, Tripura, India, Pin —799046

 

Recent passport
size color
photography

secccccecsesscoes affixed

 

AdVt. NO. ceccecceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Dated eeeee teen esse eens

] Name of the Applicant

2 Father’s/Husband’s Name

3 Nationality

4 Date of Birth

5 Category (SC/ST/OBC/GEN/EWS)

6 Gender (Male/Female)

7 Marital Status

8 NET Qualified (Yes/No)

9 GATE Qualified (Yes/No)

10 Title of the project undertaken in
M.Tech /M.Sc./B.Tech

11 Research Experience (If any) (Attached
Certificate)

12 . Aadhar No. (attach copy of Aadhar
Card)

13. Present Address ........ccossccssssscssecssssscnsssccassceeesssoncssacsssansssesssssscessecssecssecessenees
Wal Skea ced amuenneroenncicnitanaavets Pin Code wnssesnensistneeen
E-mail ID: .......cceccceceeeeeeeeeneeeeeeneeensueeae ane Phone/Mobile No.: ...........2.e.ceceeeceeeeee ee

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046

Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in

GE Scanned with OKEN Scanner


--- Page 4 ---
 

14, Educational Qualification (Higher School onwards) (Attached Certificate) :

   

15. List of SCI Journal: (Attach Annexure)

16. List of Scopus Journal: (Attach Annexure)

17. List of Conference Paper: (Attach Annexure)
18. Book/Book Chapter/Patent: (Attach Annexure)
19. Work Experience: (Attach Annexure)

20. List of Relevant Skills: (Attach Annexure)

UNDERTAKING

I hereby declare that all the information furnished above is true, correct and complete to the best of
my knowledge and belief.

Signature of the Candidate
PANES gn casiersnsever ster

Place: .........ceeeeeees

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in

GE Scanned with OKEN Scanner
