
--- Page 1 ---
i

     
      

| sss National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Jirania,Tripura, India, Pin —799046

   

F.NITA.38/189-ChE/2022/SR/Project Proposal/Proposal-1/NTFP/Part-2/JRF

      
   

Dated: —/ _/2023

Recruitment of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) for the research project funded by

Applications are invited for the post of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) under the sponsored
research project. The details of the project and the post for recruitment are given below:

Title of the Project : Microbial assessment for developing inoculums for artificially
infecting agarwood tree for sustainable agar cultivation in Tripura and
north-east region

Funding Agency
: NTFP-NCE, Govt of Tripura

Project duration : 04 years.
Principal Investigator : Dr. Srimanta Ray, Dept. of Chemical Engg.
Monthly : INR 15,500/- Year 1&2 and INR 17,500/- - Year 3 onwards
Emolument (for candidate without NET/GATE qualification or equivalent)

INR 31,000/- Year 1&2 and INR 35,000/- - Year 3 onwards

(for candidate with NET/GATE qualification or equivalent)

Essential Qualifications : First Class Master Degree in Biotechnology/Microbiology/

/any other allied subjects with hands-on skill/knowledge of i

Microbial isolation and characterization and Molecular

Biology/ Biotechnological Techniques.

|. Candidates with experience in skill/knowledge related

Desirable Qualifications to plant biotechnology/culture will be preferred.
‘ 2. Preference will be given to applicants with publication

in Scopus/SCI indexed journal in the related field.

3. Preference will be given to applicants with experience
in the related field. a

4. Candidate with NET/GATE/Equivalent qualification
will be preferred.

5. Willing for field visit and travelling, if needed.

Description of responsibilities : Developing inoculums for artificially infecting agarwood tree for
agar cultivation.

Date of Interview (Walking To be decided subject to approval and availability of expert
interview online/offline, place, Mode: Offline — through written test and interview
date to be mentioned) Venue: NIT Agartala. Proposed date: 02.11.2023.

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046

Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Urk- www.nita.ac.in Vy
el"
ye


--- Page 2 ---
SeiEL ih reer ear rN OA

FER Pa PRN sei-tisnnae rane

soe rime en RR oh ee

1 ere CERN Scere eEtY ee

seaeidienietnibiemsmneemeesseeaniaeeue ene

i

ee

@ Terms and Conditions:

The position is purely on temporary basis and will be governed by the Administrative rules, conditions
imposed by Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Agartala.

+.

10.

12.

Candidates before appearing for the interview shall ensure that they are eligible for
the position they intend to apply.

Interested candidate should send their filled application including photograph and signed
scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications, experience, skills
acquired related to advertisement and a statement of interest for the position

on or before 31.10.2023.

The application should be sent. (as a single PDF) to Dr. Srimanta Ray,
Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Agartala,
Tripura, India through e-mail at srimanta.chemical@nita.ac.in

 

No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection,
Institute reserves the right to cancel the process at any point of time without assigning
any reason.

Candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and
experience certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification.

Only shortlisted candidates will be informed through email provided in the application
form for interview, upon selection engagement letter will be sent through the email.

The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information, documents
and photographs submitted.

The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason,

Appointment will be temporary in nature and as per the Institute terms and
conditions. The continuation of appointment will be based on satisfactory
annual performance appraisal. The temporary engagement can be terminated
without assigning any reason.

. The position is co-terminus with the project duration. In the event of the JRF leaving

before completing two years, he/she will be required to refund the stipend drawn by
him/her from the date of joining to the date of leaving the project.

The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register for PhD
program at Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology
(NIT) Agartala. However, for admission to PhD program, the candidate must meet
certain eligibility requirements as per the Ph.D rules 2018 of NIT Agartala.

Sd/

Dean(R&C)
NIT Agartala

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in
