
--- Page 1 ---
12-09-2024

--- Page 2 ---
UBRT Were tear aren
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Jirania, Tripura, India, Pin - 799046

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

IT / Communication / equivalent with Artificial Intelligence /
Computer Vision / Acoustic Communication / any other related
specialization.

ii, Qualification for Project Associate-I (PA): Master's Degree in
Natural or Agricultural Sciences / MVSc or Bachelor's degree in

Engineering or Technology or Medicine from a recognized

University or equivalent.

Desirable: M.E. / M.Tech. or B.E / B.Tech in Computer Science

and Engineering / IT / Communication / equivalent with Artificial

Intelligence / Computer Vision / Acoustic Communication / any

other related specialization.

 
   
     

      

Description of
responsibilities

The primary role is to assist in research activities under the guidance of the
Principal Investigator (PI) as well Co-Principal Investigator (Co-PI).
Research activities include design and development of underwater acoustic
communication and Object detection. Preparation of high-quality
documentation, including detailed reports and presentations etc.

Number of Post__|: [1 (One) JRF/1 (One) Project Associate-T Cd
Date of Interview Date : 27.09.2024; Time: 10:00 AM

(Walk-in Venue: Computer Science & Engg Dept. Room No: 103
interview Mode of interview: Walk- in/Offline/Online.
online/offline)

  
 
  
   
 

   
  
   

  
  
   

  
  
 

 

    

A
XY
age
o&

on®

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. 191381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in


--- Page 3 ---
 

UPS Wen hrat CRIA see
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Jirania, Tripura, India, Pin - 799046

 

SR RS EP

OS ee ee ee te

RE TT FN ER NE BONE ORR PN TO, LU em eS
¥v

Terms and Conditions:

The position is purely on temporary basis and will be governed by the Administrative
rules, conditions imposed by Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Agartala.

1.

11.

Candidates before appearing for the interview shall ensure that they are eligible for the
position they intend to apply.

Interested candidate should send their filled application including photograph and
signed scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications and a statement of
interest on or before Interview Date and Time. The application should be sent to Dr.
Ranjita Das , Department of Computer Science & Engineering, National Institute of
Technology (NIT), Agartala, Tripura, India and Dr. Jayakumar L, Assistant Professor,
Department of Computer Science & Engineering, National Institute of Technology (NIT),
Agartala, Tripura, India through e-mail to ranjita.nitm@gmail.com and jkaylogu@gmail.com
keeping tih@iitg.ac.in in CC

The project duration is maximum 2 years for the position and is co-terminus’ with
the project,

No TA/DA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection.
Institute reserves the right to cancel the process at any point of time without assigning any
reason.

Candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience
certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification. ,

Appointment will be temporary in nature and as per the Institute terms and conditions.

Only shortlisted candidates will be informed through email provided in the application
form for interview, upon selection engagement letter will be sent through the email.

The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information, documents and
photographs submitted.

The Institute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason.

. The candidate selected for the above position will have the option to register for PhD

program at Department of Computer Science & Engg, National Institute of Technology
(NIT) Agartala. However, for admission to PhD program, the candidate must meet certain
eligibility requirements as per the Ph.D rules 2018 of NIT Agartala.

The temporary engagement can be terminated without assigning any reason,

< Sd/
\
a?
i 1
os Dean(R&C)
NIT Agartala

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin:- 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2346630/6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url:- www.nita.ac.in

rare Som Te

eee eneseecrst

ee es SRR SSE US Nene eee oe

a ste

as BE Hees oe

a

Lanes eee

hee a0 7 beretteiiewi wen eh te er me

~pnnats

arate Pia Bae SEEMS
