
--- Page 1 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala — 799046 (Tripura)
OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC

 

 

Date.29./09/2023

   

Sub:- List of the candidates provisionally selected, from the waiting-list, for admission in
MCA programme for 2023-24 academic session under Institute Spot Round.

 

 

The following are the candidates who are selected provisionally, from the waiting list, for
admission in MCA programme of NIT Agartala for 2023-24 academic session against the vacant
seats left after admission through NIMCET-2023.

a NIMCET-2023 Allotted
SI.No | Candidate Name Application No Catego

| 1 | HRISHABH PATLE 23002975 OBC-NCL
DHEERAJ KUMAR 23012705

The candidates shall deposit the requisite admission fee for 1*t semester MCA programme
of Rs. 51,825/-..

 
     

 
   

Instructions to candidates (for online provisional registration and admission):

 

1. Visit the online portal of NIT Agartala https://mis.nita.ac.in/ and choose the option
Apply Online PG Admission. From 30/09/2023 to 01/10/2023.

Register yourself using NIMCET Application No. and follow instructions.

Pay requisite fee.

Enter and fill the required details correctly in the portal. (Mandatory)

Candidates must ensure that they have submitted the MIS Form by clicking
“Submit” in the portal. In case of any technical difficulty, candidates must

emai] immediately to nitmisagt@gmail.com.
6. After submission of all the information an online provisional registration slip will
be generated. All are instructed to save the online provisional slip for future
reference. (Candidates must enable the pop-ups in their browser to download the
online provisional registration slip)
The details filled by the candidates will be verified online by the officials of NIT
Agartala.
The provisional admission may be given, subject to submission of original documents on
physical reporting at NIT Agartala.
7. All are instructed to save the online provisional slip for future reference.
8. All the candidates must submit their original Migration and Conduct/ Character
certificate, from the last Institution attended, during physical reporting at the
Institute.
9. Hard copies of all below mentioned documents in Table-1 (duly self-attested) must
be submitted to the Department during physical reporting at the Institute, to be held
during 03/10/2023 (Tuesday).

oe ee

 
  

   

 

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala- 799046, India, website- www,nita,ac.in, Ph-0381-2546630, 2548537, Fax: 0381-254636 tig
/

   

     


--- Page 2 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala — 799046 (Tripura)
OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC -

 

 

 

 

. Table-1 bs
a) | NIMCET Rank card (mandatory) = es wee
b) | Proof of date of birth (mandatory) (10 admit) ~ - 3 Ke
) | Mark sheet(s) of X and XII/ Diploma (mandatory) toh fe
d) | Photo id proof, as per guidelines of Gol (mandatory) “. i hy,

Mark sheets of all semesters of Qualifying Degree (scanned ¢ Opy of Original). If final
result of qualifying degree is awaited, an undertaking mustbe ewe’ as per
prescribed format at Annexure- A.(mandatéry) Pr

ey

 

Pass Certificate of Qualifying Degree, wherever applicable

 

—

Migration Certificate issued by ‘the Institution last attended, wherpver’ applicable

Conduct/Character Certificate issued byt, the Institution last attended, wherever
applicable

Colour photograph as uploaded in NIMCET (mandatory)

SC/ ST/PwD/OBC-NCL/ EWS certificate (if and whichever applicable). OBC-NCL/
EWS certificates must be issued on or after 01/04/2023.

Proof of Payment. (mandatory) |

—

 

—

Certificate for final year appearing candidates from the Institute signed and sealed by
Principal/HoD/Registrar/Director (wherever applicable)

m)| Undertaking as per prescribed format at Annexure- B. (For all candidates)
(mandatory)

 

n) | Undertaking as per prescribed format at Annexure- C.(For all candidates) (mandatory)

 

10. Candidates must bring all original documents for verification.
11. All candidates must fulfil all the minimum eligibility criteria as prescribed by
NIMCET-2023.

 

Students whose results are awaited, must fill up the undertaking form in prescribed format |
as in Annexure- A for submitting the certificates (Mark/Grade Sheet, Degree/Provisional

Degree Certificate, TC, Conduct Certificate ‘and Migration certificate, etc) latest by isth
October, 2023.

Followi ints to} 1 by tl tidates:
1. The fee for 1“ semester MCA programme is Rs.51,825/-.
2. The different heads of fees (including tuition fee) may be changed after Ist semester by
the Competent Authority. In such case, students are required to pay the changed fee.
3. For all hostel related matters, candidates may contact the Office of the Chief Warden, NIT Jf Yo
Agartala. Contact details are available in the Institute Website. — pe

 
 
     

 

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala- 799046, India, website- www, nita.ac.j in, Ph-0381 -2546630, 2548537, Fax: 038


--- Page 3 ---
 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala — 799046 (Tripura)
OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC

 

4. Refund

If an admitted student cancels admission/withdraws/leaves the Institute without completing
the entire programme, all fees paid will be forfeited by the Institute, and student will be
eligible for academic caution money refund only on filling up of the No-dues cum
cancellation certificate. This clause is applicable even before formal registration to the 1"
semester and starting of classes.

** Candidates are advised to visit Institute website regularly for any updates.

 

Dean (Academic Affairs)

Copy to
1. PS to the Director, NITA, for kind information of the Director.
2. Registrar, NIT, Agartala for kind information.
3. HOD (CSE), for kind information.
4. FIC MIS for kind information and necessary action.
5. System administrator with a request to upload the same in the Institute website.

2
Prof, «fan 7 y

Dean (Academic Affairs)

 

 


--- Page 4 ---
ANNEXURE- A

Undertaking for Appearing Candidate

I, Mr./ Ms. , Son/ Daughter of ‘
Resident of with NIMCET Application no, , do hereby undertake
as under: ,

| am a bonafide student of {Name of the Institute/

 

University) and have completed the final examination and all other requirements to be eligible for the award
of the degree of in the Department of and my result
has not been published yet. I will produce all the marksheets and certificates of qualifying degree fulfilling the
minimum eligibility criteria and special eligibility criterion, as per NIMCET- 2023, along with
TC/Conduct/Migration etc, on_or before 15 October, 2023, failing which my admission in the programme
allotted by NIMCET- 2023 at NIT Agartala will stand cancelled and NIT Agartala will not be liable for the same
and all fees paid will be forfeited. 1 will not appeal to the Institute authority for further extension of date for
submission of my result. In any case, the decision taken by authority of NIT Agartala will be final.

Signature of the candidate with date:
Name of the candidate:

Name and Signature of Parent with date:


--- Page 5 ---
of

ANNEXURE- B

Undertaking (for all candidates)

I, Mr./ Ms. . , Son/ Daughter of Resident
with NIMCET application no. , do hereby undertake as under:

I will not have any objection if my provisional registration and admission in MCA programme is cancelled

in event of my failure to submit all required document(s) within date as notified by NIT Agartala.

I further declare that at any point of time, if any of my uploaded/ submitted document(s) as well as

information given by me is/ are found to be false/ untrue, then my provisional registration and admission at

NIT Agartala will stand cancelled, and decision taken by NIT Agartala will be final.

Signature of the candidate with date
Name of the candidate:

Name and Signature of Parent with date:


--- Page 6 ---
Annexure-C
UNDERTAKING

| do hereby undertake that | will not claim any scholarship/fellowship
from the Institute during the whole period of MCA programme from
academic session 2023-24.

Date:

(Full Signature of the candidate)
