
--- Page 1 ---
ft€irffi
rr$nq
Eiqerrq errr{ffiTT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
BORJALA, JIRANIA, TRIPURA-799046
sffi
I'.N ITA.20(26 4-ECE)12023 -z+lvi
Date 07106112024
ryIEMQ
Sub:
Names of shortlisted canclidates provisionally selected for written test and/or Interview
at NIT Agartala for adrnission in Ph.D programme under Visvesvaraya ph.D scheme
Phase II, for the Jr_rly - Decelnber 2024 acaclemic session.
Based on the recommendation of the ECE Department, the undersigned is directed to
infonn that the following candidates have been provisionally shorllisted for appearing in the
written test and/or Interview in connection with admission in ph.D programmJ
uncler
Visvvecssvaraya rPnh..uD ssccheme Phase ll" fror the July - December 2024 academic session:
SL No. Application ID Name of the applicant Applied Category
I NAGTBXPFGU DHIRAJ DAS SC
tNJr,
NAG'|M8 I suuniJm,r I<UMAR StrARMA OBC-NCt
Instruction to the canclidates
" l) l'he shortlisting of canclidates are purely provisional, Candidates are required to
submit all relevant documents, on the date of written test/ interview, strictiy as per
mentioned in the notification for consideration.
2)
Candidates must produce all original documents of eclucational qualification frorr
Madhyamik (secondary) onwarcls, CATEA,IET score card (wherever appUcu6f";, proof
of date of birth, proof of caste (SC/ST/OBC-NCI-) (for Ogb-NCL, certificates must be
issued on or after 0llQ4/2024), PWD certificate (wherever applicable), EWS certificate
(issued on or after 0rl04l20tq, certificate of Lxperlenc. if uny, copies of research
publications if any along with self-attested copy of att ttie documents.
4 3) ) All the candidates must fullfill eligibility criterla as per notificarion dated 2710512Q24.
Written test/ interview will be conduited in physical mode at NIT Agartala in the
Electronics & Communication Engineering - C D o e m p m ar u tm ni e c n a t t io o n n 19/06/2024. Cindidates are
instructed to repoft to the Electronics & Engineering Department,
NIT Agartala at 9.30 am on l9/06t2024.
5)
Candidates are instructed to visit institute website regularly for any further updates.
ln case of any query, the candidates may email to (goutarl-eJglAgilA4g.!!) Dr. Goutam
Kumar Gupta, Asstt' Professor (ECE) & Nodal officer, vis*wurfih.D
scheme,
NIT Agartala.
AR(
Copy to
.
1. PS to the Director, NIT Agartala for kind information of the DireJor.
2. Dean (Acadernic Affairs), for kind information.
3. Registrar, NIT Agarlala for kind information.
4. FIOD ECE, for kind information.
5. Nodal Officer, Visvesvaraya Ph.D scheme NIT Agartala, for information and takilg
necessary action.
6. Asso, Dean (PG) for infonlation.
7. Systenr administrator, NIT Agartala for inforrnation and with a request to upload it
in the Institute website.
AR (A
Barjala, Agartala-799046, l nd ia. website- rvrvut n itn.!S.ir!