
--- Page 1 ---
Minutes! 19" BOG/ NITA
12" June 2011

“S%> NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 7990.54

 

ihe ake oe a oh ake
Minutes of the Nineteenth Meeting of the
Board of Governors

held on 12" June 2011

At Conference Room of NIT Agartala

PEE A tA A REAP HE AP A

The Nineteenth meeting of the Board of Governors of the Institute was held on
12™ June 2011 at 10 am in the Conference Room of NIT, Agartala, Tripura. In the
meeting all the members of Finance Committee, who are also the members of Board of
Governors were present.

The following members were present in the meeting.

(i) Prof. P. N. Singh 3 Chairman, BOG of NIT Agartala.

(2) Prof. P. K. Bose : Member, Director of NIT, Agartala and
Director (1/C) of NIT Silchar.

GB) Prof. Alok kK. Gupta : Member, Representing large, medium

and small scale industries, Professor,
Allahabad University.

(4) Mr. Sriram Taranikanti : Commissioner & Secretary, Department
of Higher Education, Govi. of Tripura.
Representative of the Govi. of Tripura.

(5) Mr. R. Kk. Bandyopadhyay j Representative of the Jomt Secretary,
Ministry of HIRD, Govt. of India.

(6) Mr. Tapash Roy i Member, Representing Alumni.

(7) Prof. A. K. Sarkar : Member, Representing Faculty, NIT,
Agartala.

(8) . Mr. P. N. Das : Member, Representing Faculty, NIT,

” Agartala, -

(9) Dr. D. Bhattacharya : Secretary, Registrar, NIT, Agartala

Shri S. K. Ray, Prof. G. Barua, and representatives from the AICTE, UGC could
not attend the meeting due to their prior engagements and were granted leave of absence.

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman, BOG of NIT Agartala presided over the meeting.

At the outset the Chairman welcomed all the members, specially thanked Prof.
Alok K. Gupta, Mr. Sriram Taranikanti and Mr. R. K. Bandyopadhyay to have made it

possible to attend the meeting.
Fans

Page 1 of 5
TBShoits choc is i


--- Page 2 ---
Faas

Minutes! 19" BOG/NITA
12" June 2011

Then the Director, Prof. P. K. Bose welcomed all the member. He specially
thanked Mr, R. K, Bandyopadhyay, Dy. Secretary of MHRD, Prof. Alok K. Gupta from
Allahabad University, Mr. Tapas Roy, DGM of CSE, Kolkata and Mr, Sriram
Taranikanti, Commissiover & Secretary, Govt. of Tripura, Department of Higher
Education for attending the meeting inspite of their busy schedule.

The Chairman again welcomed all the members present in the meeting and invited
the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussion on agenda points,

PART-—A

Item No. 1; Confirmation of the Minutes of Seventeenth and Eighteenth Board of
Governors meeting.

No comment has been received from any of the members. The Board confirmed
the minutes of the Seventeenth and Eighteenth meeting of the BOG held on 13" February
2011 and 27" March 2011 respectively with the following change in its observation
against in Item No. 5, regarding formulation of guide lines for essential credentials of the
faculties for consideration of being recommended to the Board. The Board decided that it
is the sole authority of the Senate io select faculty representative to the Board and the
Board has full faith in the wisdom of the Senate.

Item No.2: Action taken on the decision of the Seventeenth and Eighteenth meeting
of the Board of Governors respectively held on 13" February 2611 and
27" March 2011.

The committee noted the action taken report with the following observation/
modification.

(1) In respect of SI. No. 1, on the observations made by the Board in its 17"
meeting regarding formation of a new Board of Governors, it was pointed
out that as per the NIT Act “two persons to be nominated by the
Government of the State in which the Institute is situated, from amongst-
persons, who, in the opinion of that Government are technologists or
industrialists of repute” [Ref. NIT Act, 2007, Article 11 (d)]. The State
Government may be requested to nominate their representative

accordingly.

(ii) In respect of Sl. No. 2, the typographical mistake was corrected. In place
of CDPA, it would be CPDA.

Gii) In respect of SI]. No. 18, the proposal for providing redundant internet
connectivity may be changed to proposal for an Additional Intemet
Connectivity.

7355 he lb. mare : Page 2 of 5 . Fortin


--- Page 3 ---
Minutes! 19" BOG/NITA
. 12" June 2011

PART - B

Item No.3: A report on the 3 " Convocation ceremony of the Institute held on 27"
March 2007.

The members applauded the conduct of the 3”* Convocation in a very successful
way by the Institute and also for the renovation of the old Auditorium in a befitting way.

Iiem No.4: Yo consider the recommendation of the Selection Committee for the
recruitment of the Registrar & Dy. Registrar, NIT Agartala.

At first the sealed envelope containing the recommendation of the Selection
Committee for the post of Registrar was placed before the Board for its perusal and
directives. The Director, Prof. P. kK. Bose opened the envelope and read out the
recommendation of the Selection Committee. The Board after perusal of the Bio-data of
the recommended candidate, approved for ihe selection of Dr. Nabin Kumar Kole, for the
post of Registrar and his pay may be protected as per Govt. rules.

Next, before opening of seuled envelope containing the recommendation of the
Selection Committee for the post of Dy. Registrar, the Secretary of Board, informed the
Board that after the Interview, in the process of re-checking of the credentials of the
persons called for interview it was found that one of the applicants called for interview
for the post of Dy. Registrar, crossed the age limit of 45 years as stipulated in the
advertisement. The Director supplemented that all the eligible candidates were called for
interview and no candidates who fulfilled the essential qualification were left out. The
Board asked the Director to place all applications, so that the members of the Board could
check qualifications of the candidates, who meet the prescribed qualifications. It was
found that al] members, who have qualified have been called for the interview. However,
one of the three candidates, called for interview by name Mr. Nishit Kumar
Mukhopadhyay has crossed the upper age limit of 45 years for the post of Deputy
Registrar and as such is not eligible.

Then the sealed envelop was opened. The Director read out the recommendation
of the selection committee. The Selection Committee recommended a panel of two

candidates for the post of Dy. Registrar:

(i) Mr. Nishit Kumar mukhopadhyay.
(1) Mr. Sumanta Chakraborti.

The Selection Committee recommended that in the event of the First person fail to
join after getting appointment within a stipulated period, the second man may be given
the appointment letter. The Board however felt that as the candidate recommended at SI.
No. 1 was over aged it unanimously resolved and recommended to offer the appointment
of the Deputy Registrar to the second person in the panel viz. Mr. Sumanta Chakraborti.

JL
Typha
hers h wlio howte 7 Page 3 of 5 :


--- Page 4 ---
Minutes! 19" BOG/NITA
12" tune 2011

It was further resolved to protect his pay at the present post. The Board felt that the
selection process was not vitiated as no eligible candidate was lefi oui. Besides, there is a
need to appoint the Deputy Registrar as there is acute shortage of the administrative staff.

_ item No.5: Yo consider for allowing the regular pay scale with other allowances as
applicable to the Central Government employees to the Contractual

Teaching staff (recruited for term basis of one year each) working in
NIT Agartala.

The proposal was withdrawn.
Hem No.6: To consider subsidized 1 Ghps NIN connectivity in the Institute.

The Board approved the recommendation of the Finance Committee in this

regard.

To consider the recommendation of the 26 Building & Works
Committee meeting held on 11 June 2011 at 6:00 pin in NIT Transit

House, Kunjaban, Agartala.

Item No. 7:

The committee noted the recommendations of the Building & Works Committee
meeting held on 11" June at 6:00 pm in NIT Transit House and approved.

Item No.8: To consider the recommendation of the 1 5" Finance Committee
meeting held on 1] " June 2011 at 5:00 pm in the Conference Room of

NIT Agartala.

 
 

The Committee approved the recommendation of the Finance Committee, taken
during discussion on the Finance Committee Agenda at the beginning of the meeting of

the Board of Governors.

Item No.9: To consider the medical reimbursement rule for the regular Teaching
employees of the Institute.

The Board after discussion at length, suggested that detailed proposal regarding
empanelment of Hospital and Nursing Homes along with empanelment of Doctors,

Page 4 of 5 tudughr

SSFS he (be haeeeee 4


--- Page 5 ---
6) Minutes/ 19" BOG/ NITA
12" June 2011

Pathological Laboratories in Agartala may be placed in the next Finance Committee
meeting for subsequent consideration of the Board.

The State Government representative further added that simultaneously, in view
of the Jarge number of Central Govt. establishments, CGHS may also be requested to
- empanel some of the local Hospitals at North Eastern Region, specially at Tripura.

Item No. 10: To consider the Leave Rules of permanent teachers of NIT Agartala.

The Committee after thread bare discussion suggested that since it involves
financial matters, the same may be placed in the Finance Committee meeting to be held
next and subsequent consideration of the Board.

PART -C
Item No. 11: Items approved by the Director or Chairman submitted for noting of the
Board.

The Board ratified the action taken by the Chairman / Direcior.

ADDITIONAL AGENDA

(On Table Discussion)

Addl. Item No.1: To consider enhancement of sitting allowance rate for the
Board and other committee members under the Board.

The Board approved the recommendation of the Finance Committee in this
regard.

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chairs.

7 Pidiiigfr

SRR ie cL hk,

(Dr. D. Bhattachary ‘ (Prof. P. N. Singh)
Secretary Chairman
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar NIT Agartala

NIT Agartala

Page 5 of 5
