
--- Page 1 ---
Minutes/ 23" BOG/ NITA
- 20" May 2012

WEST TILPURA, PIN: 799055
A af oe He ok a ate /
‘Yinutes of the Twenty Third Wreeting of the
Board of Governors
held op 20" Way 2012

 

At Conference Room of NIT Transit House

a EE DEHN A ttt

 

The twenty third meeting of the Board of Governors of the Institute was held on 20" May
2012 at 12 noon in ihe Conference Room of NIT Transit House, Kunjaban, Agartala,

The following members were present in the meeting.

(1) Prof. P, N. Singh : Chairman, BOG of NIT Apartala,

(2) Prof. P. K. Bose : Member, Director of NIT, Agartala

(3) Prof, Nitindra Nath Som ; Member, Former Professor of Jadavpur
University,

(4) Dr. Bindu Dey : Member, Advisor, Department of

Biotechnology, Govt. of India

(5) Prof. Sekhar Datta : Membcr, Professor of Tripura Institute of
Technology,

(6) Shri.P. N, Das : Member, Representing Faculty, NIT,
Agartala.

(7) Shri K. Ambuly : Invitee, Secretary to the Govt, of Tripura,

Dept. of Higher Education,
(8) Dr. A. K. Chakraborty : Secretary, Registrar (I/C), NIT, Agartala

The representatives of Ministry of HRD, Govt. of India and Shri Tridib Chakraborty,
Principal, Women’s Polytechnic could not attend the meeting.

The Chairman and Director welcomed Prof. N. N. Som, former Professor and Dean of

Jadavpur University; Dr. (Mrs) Bindu Dey, Advisor, Dept. of Biotechnology, Govt. of
India, Shri K, Ambuly, Secretary to the Govt. of Tripura, Dept. of Higher Education and

the other members of the BOG.
-Fraivge

dei on™ Page 1 of 3


--- Page 2 ---
Minutes! 23" BOG/NITA
"20" May 2012

The Chairman then invited the Director and the Registrar (I/C) to initiate discussion on
agenda items, °

Agenda-wise decisions are noted below:

Item No. 23.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of Twenty Second Board of Governors
Meeting.

 

The minutes of twenty second Board of Governors meeting held on 5" April 2012 was
confirmed by the Board,

Ttem No. 23.2: Action taken on the decision of the Twenty Second meeting of the
Board af Governors held on 5 April 2012.

 

The action taken are noted in the meeting.

Item No. 23.3: To note the minutes of three Special Building & Works Committee
meetings of NIT Agartala held on 25" April 201 2, 11" May 2012 and
18" May 2012 at NIT Transit House, Agartala.

The minutes of the special meeting of the BWC dated 25" April, 11" Amy and 18" May
2012 are noted and approved.

* Item No. 23.4: To consider the minutes of 18"" Finance Committee meeting held on
20" May 2012 at 11 am in the Conference Roam of NIT Transit
House, Kunjaban, Agartala.

The minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee has been perused by the members

of the BOG and after thread bare discussion itis resolved to accept the recommendation
of the Finance Committee to award the work for the construction of Sports Complex,

Item No. 23.5: To consider the recommendations of the Sarangi Committee
regarding teachers qualifications, career benefit, recruitment rules
etc,

After hearing the comments by the various members of the BOG, this agenda item is

deferred.
. | fus mel
we Page 2 of 3 .
\s piri .


--- Page 3 ---
Minutes! 23" BOG/ NITA
20" May 2012

Item No. 23.6: Any other item with permission of the Chair,

Item No. 23.6.1: To consider the appointnent of Assistant Registrar (Academic)
of NIT Agartala,

The recommendations made by the Interview Committee for selection of the post of
Assistant Registrar (Academic), NI'T Agartala, held on 14" May 2012 at Conference
Room of NIT Agartala, were placed before the Board. After opening of the sealed
envelope during the meeting, the recommendations of the Selection Cominitice, the
Board approved the regular appointment of Mr. Tanmoy Ghosal, S/O Sri Tapan Kr,
Ghosal with one additional increment at the initial sta ge to the post of Assistant Registrar
(Academic) as recommended by the Selection Committee. The terms & conditions of
appointment should be mentioned in appointment letter,

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chairs.

£ ;: - fie |
We arecbel | falc!

(Dr. A. K, Chakraboty) (Prof. PN. Singh),
Registrar (I/C) and Secretary of Board of Governors Chairman, Board of Governors
NIT Agartala NIT Agartala

Page 3 of 3
