
--- Page 1 ---
Minutes! 29" BOG/ NITA
February 27, 2014

NATIONAL ENSTITUPE OF TECHNOLOGY ACAITTALA
WEST TNIPUIA, PIN: 799055

ab ede Si a

 

Rrinmutes of the 29" Meeting of the
Board of Governors
held on 27" February 2OLE

At Conference Hall of NIT Agartala

pra A Par RE ed At tt ty PAY A I A neat te amr ain tind nt nett tt Ee Ha

The 29" meeting of the Board of Governors of the National Institute of Technology
Agartala was held on February 27, 2014 at 13:30 am in the Conference Hall of NIT,

Agartala.

The following members were present in the meeting :

(3) Prof. PN. Singh : Chairman, BoG of NIT Agariala,

(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya : Member, Director of NIT, Agariala

3) Shri Kishor Ambuly : Member, Secretary to the Government of
Tripura, Higher Education Department,
Agartala,

(4) Shri Rajesh Singh Solanki : Under Secretary, MHRD, Govi. of India,

(Representative of MHRD, Govt. of India,
Dept. of Higher Education,).

 

(5) Prof. Nitindra Nath Som : Member, Former Professor of Jadavpur
Universily.

(6) Prof. (Mrs) Uma Bhattacharya Member, Professor, Department of Computer

. Science & Technology, Benga] Engg. &

Science University (BESU), Shibpur.

(7) Prof. Sekhar Datta : Member, Principal, Tripura Institute of
Technology. ;

(8) Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma : Member, Professor, NIT, Agariala.

(9) Mr. John Debbarma : Member, Asst. Professor, ME Dept., NITA

(10) Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti : Secretary, Registrar, NIT, Agartala

Prof. A. Srinivasan,-Dean of Faculty Affairs, Indian Institute of Technology CIT),
Guwahati (nominee of the Director, JIT Guwahati), could not attend the meeting.

Prof, P, N. Singh, Chairman of the Board of Governors (BoG), NIT, Agartaia, presided
over the meeting.

Prof. P.N. Singh, Chairman, Board of Governors, NIT Agartala, introduced Prof. Gopal
Mugeraya, Director, NIT Agartala to all the Members of the Board of Governors and

welcomed him. m : £
nt upg

e pee
aT fee 3
\e in Page 1 of 7 pier

at \


--- Page 2 ---
A

Minutes! 29" BOG/ NITA
February 27, 2014

The Chairman of the Board of Governors introduced Prof. (Mrs) Uma Bhatlacharya,
Professor in the Department of Computer Science & ‘Technology, Bengal Ingineering &
Science University (BESU), Shibpur, West Bengal to the Members of BoG and
welcomed her to the meeting of the Board of Govemors of NIT Agartala, He also
welcomed Shri K. Ambuly, Secretary to the Government of Tripura, Deptt. of Higher
Education and other members of the BoG.

Members of the Board were informed about the sad demise of Tridib Chakraborty, the
Principal of Women’s Polytechnic and @ former BoG Member and Asis Sarkar, Asst.
Professor of Mechanical Engineering Dept, WIT Apartala. The Board expressed the
eondoluiecs and one minute sjience was observed praying for eterna} peace of the
departed soul of Late Tridib Chakraborty, Principal of W omen’s Polytechnic & a former
BoG Member and Late Asis Sarkar, Asst. Professor of Mechanical Engineering Dept.
who expired prematurely. ,

The Board of Governors appreciated and placed on records the contribution of al)
previous BoG Members namely, Dr. (Mrs) Bindu Dey, Scientist-G, Advisor of Bio-
Technology, Dept. of Bio-Technology, Ministry of Science & Technology, Government
of India: Tridib Chakraborty, Ex-Principal, Women’s Polytechnic, Government of
Tripura, Agartala; and Shri Priyanath Das, Associate Professor, represented as Faculty
Members of NIT Agartala.

The Chairman then invited the Director and the Registrar (ic) to initiate discussions on
Agenda items.

tem No. 29.1: Confirmation of (A) the Minutes of 27 (Special) Board of
Governors (BoG) Meeting; and (8) agi" (Special) Board of
Governors (BoG) Meeting.

(A) ‘The minutes of 27" (Special) Board of Governors meeting held on July 25", 2013
were circulated to all the Members for comments / observation. Shri John Deb Barma,
Member & Asst. Professor of ME Dept. submitted his comments. After detailed
discussions, the BoG confirmed the minutes of the 27" (Special) Board of Governors

Meeting.

(B) The minutes of 28" (Special) Board of Governors meeting held on December 10,
9013 were circulated to all the Members for comments / observation. Shri Satpal
Sharma, Under Secretary, MURD, Govt. of India, (Representative of Financial Advisor,
Dept. of Higher Education, ‘MHRD), submitted his comments. Since the Institute has
already submitted 4 detailed report as suggested by Shri Satpal Sharma, hence after °
detailed discussion the BoG confirmed the minutes of the 28" (Special) Board of

Governors Meeting.
Heong
——
iN : “ate 201
Wr, a7 (o> |

\ Page 2 of 7


--- Page 3 ---
Minutes! 29" BOGE NITA
February 27, 2014

Item No. 29.2; Action taken on the decisions of the 26" BoG, 27" (Special) and 28"

(A)

(Special) meetings of the Board of Governors held on 18" June,
2013, 25" July 204 and 10" December, 2013.

The action taken report for 26" BoG Meeting were noted with the following
observations :

SLNo.2, Item No.26.2 : The MHRD representative was requested to see for
expediting the mater to communicate the decision of the MHRD in regard to
reservation regarding yecruitment of Associate Professor / Professor to NIT
Agartala.

SINo.7, Hem No.26.18 : The term CAS should be renamed as Up-Gradation of
Grade Pay and the Order of eligible faculty members as per recommendation of
the 26" BoG may be issued accordingly keeping in mind the observations of the
Tripura High Court in W.P.CC) 158 of 2013 and WP. (C) 97 of 2013.

 

(B) The action taken report for 27" (Special) BoG Meeting was noted.

(C)The action taken report for 28” (Special} BoG Meeting was noted with the

following observations |

@ The Chairman, Administrative Reforms & Campus Development
Committee, NIT Agartala, submitied the Report to the Chairman, Board of
Governors in the meeting and briefed about the report to the Members.

(i) Prof, Sekhar Dutta, Chairman, Fact Finding Committee of the incidents
took place following the sad demise of Rabul Kumar, apprised the Board
Members its findings and informed that the final Report will be submitted

by next 20-25 days.
(iii) Prof. Nitindra Nath Som, Chairman, Academic Development Committee

of NIT Agartala informed the BaG Members that a detailed report will be
submitted at the earliest.

+

Item No. 29.3: Implementation of 4-tier flexible faculty structure in the National

Institute of Technology Agartala.

The BoG adopted and approved the proposal of Ministry of HRD, Government of India

for implementation of 4-tier flex

ible faculty structure for the existing and new faculties

along with the Recruitment Rules and Guidelines attached to the letter dated 15.01.2014
of MHRD.

i ‘

Xe —Prrpieg hn
\ On mre foal
qt V4 Page 3 of 7 aT fer] ely


--- Page 4 ---
Minutes! 29" BOG/ NTA
February 27, 2014

Item No. 29.4: To consider amendment of the First Statues of NIT Agartala for
raising the refirem ent age of Director io 70 years.

The BoG adopted the proposal to revise the superannuation age of the Director, NITs

from 65 to 70 years.

Item No. 29.5: To consider the age of superannuation for the post of Registrar.

The BoG approved that the non-teaching posts including the post of Registrar will be
filled up as per the Recruitment Rules framed by MEHRD. The superannuation ape
mentioned in the Recruitment Rules of MHRD will be strictly followed for all the posts
and even for the post of Regisirar also.

Item No. 29.6 : Proposal for appointment of Deputy Director in the NITs.

The BoG approved the proposal of the MHRD for appointment of the Deputy Director of
NTs.

Item No. 29.7: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 30" Building
& Works Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.

The BoG approved ithe recommendations of the 30th Building & Works Committee

Meeting held on December 09, 2013.

Item No. 79.8: Ratification of the recommendations of the minutes of 31" Building

& Works Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.

The BoG ratified the action taken by the Chairman on the recommendations of the 31°

Building & Works Committee meeting held on February 02, 2014.
Iter No.29.9: To consider the Annual Report for the year 2012-13,

The BoG approved the Annual Report 20 12-13 of NIT Agartala along with the audited
statement for the year 2012-13.

{tem No.29,.10: To consider for inclusion of services of three faculty members of
Civil & Trahsportation Engineering Department with the Civil
Engineering Department.

The BoG approved the proposal for inclusion of the following three(3) faculty members
_of Civil & Transportation Engineering Department to the Civil Engineering Department
of NIT Agartala and from now onwards they will be designated as Asst. Professor, Civil

Engineering Department :

i) Shri Dipankakr Sarkar, Asst. Professor, Civil Engg. Dept.
ii) Shri Debdulal Tripura, Asst. Professor, Civil Enge- Dept.
iil) Shri Parthopratiin Sarkar, Asst. Professor, Civil Engg. Dept.

Pape 4 of 7 + - Me
BN - . Lasugh 2
tog . ee
TE Paoanftl

4


--- Page 5 ---
 

Minutes! 29" BOC NITA
February 27, 2014

Item No.29.11: To consider for awarding of the Scholarship as “Moutoshi Kar
Memorial Merit Scholarship”.

The BoG approved the proposal for awarding the “Moutoshi Kar Memorial Merit
Scholarship” every year to the topper of the 3' Semester student of Civil Engineering
Department in the Alumni Meet of NIT Agariala,

Item No. 29.12: To consider the Association of Non-Teaching Staff of NIT Agartala.

The BoG decided that only one Association will be allowed to be formed in NIT Agartala
for the Non-Teaching staff of NIT Agartala. Before allowing permission, the Association
should form By-laws and objectives of the Association, ete. and has to take registration
from the appropriate authority.

Iiem_No.29.13: To consider the establishment of a Guest House / Convention
Centre in Kolkata in IIT Kharagpur line for NITs of the North-
East. . .

The BoG approved the proposal for establishment of a Guest House / Convention Centre

in Kolkata for NITs of the North-East.

Engineering Department, NIT Agartala.
Afier detailed discussion the BoG has taken the following decisions : ~

(1) Disciplinary Proceedings : BoG decided to approve the Disciplinary Proceedings
initiated against Prof. Mishra vide Memo No.F.NITA.2.1(246-Estt)/08/7396
dated 28.10.2013 and ratified the action taken by the Director (i/c) with
retrospective effect. The BoG also authorized the Director to take follow up

action on this matter.

(2) Dept. of Bio-Technology Associateship : BoG decided to ask Prof. Mishra to
apply for leave out of his credit from 11.7.2013 to 18.9.2013, Otherwise the leave
and service will not be regularized and salary should not be released.

(3) The BoG authorized the Director to make an enguiry, by forming an Inguiry
Committee, as prescribed in Rule 14 of CCS(CCA) Rules 1965 and take follow
up action on the outscome of the enquiry as per Rule ibid. The Inquiry Committee
may be requested to submit the report within 3(three) months from the date of
appointment. Further, the BoG authorized the Director to take al] necessary steps

and action on this issue.

Besides above, the BoG authorized the Director to take appropriate action against
Prof. Mishra on any issue as follow up action of above matters or issues likely to

Pup Lnghh

\ \ % P eae
\ der, Page § of 7 271 e2 jae! tf

come afresh.


--- Page 6 ---
Minutes! 29" BOG/NITA
February 27, 2014

  

Yéem No.29.15: Claim of Mx. Prasenjit Dutta, Assistant Professor for the benefit of
LTC admissible to fresh recruits every year, :

The BoG has gone through the provisions of the Rules in repard to the claim of Shri
Prasenjit Dutta, Asst. Professor, NIT Agartala and decided that Shri Dutta is not entitled
to every year HTC/LTC admissible to fresh recruits.

Item No.29.16: To consider the extension of facilities of TEQUP-U Project to the
faculty members of Humanities & Social Science Department of

NITA.

The BoG approved the proposal] to extend the facilities of TEQIP-H Project lo the faculty
members of Humanities & Social Science Department of NIT Agartala.

Item-No. 29.17: To consider the reallocation of responsibilities of the Dean and TloD
-- ratification thereof.

The BoG noted the proposal and ratified the decision of the Director, NYT Agartala,
regarding changes of Deanships and HoDs of NIT Agartala.

Item No.29,18: Present Status of TEQUP-I Project of NITY Agartala. °

Dr. Ardhendu Saha, Coordinator, TEQIP-I Project, presented the present Slatus of
TEQIP-II Project of NIT A gartala and apprised the Board Members.

The BoG expressed that the TEQIP-II activities are to be expedited and must meet the
expectation. The TEQIP-I Coordinator was advised to be more active for completion of
the works under TEQIP-II as per dead line given by NPIU.

Item No. 29.19: To consider for setting up of Branch of different Banks along with
ATM facilities and fixation of rent, lease agreement, etc..

The BoG approved the proposal and authorized ‘the Director, NIT Agartala to take

appropriate decision. :

Item No.29.20 : To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 13" Senate
meeting of NIT Agartala.

The Minutes of the 13" Senate Meeting of NIT Agartala, held on February 17, 2014 were

approved.
forms

\ :
\ Woe Page 6 of 7 tem
Ware, ay fen rely


--- Page 7 ---
 

Minutes! 29" BOGENITA
February 27, 2014

Item No.29.21: To consider the recommendation of the minutes of 23" Rinance
Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.

The Minutes of the 23" Finance Committee meeting held on February 27, 2014 were

approved. '

Item No.29.22: Proposal for construction of a Central Lecture Hall Complex having
27 Class Rooms at NIT Agartala.

The proposal for construction of a Centra] Lecture Hall Complex having 27 Class Rooms
at NIT Agartala was approved.

Tiem No.29.23: Any other item with permission of the Chair.

Police Case against the staff of NIT Agartala.

Prof. P.N. Singh, Chairman, BoG, NIT Agartala, informed the Members of the BoG that
after sad demise of Rahul Kumar, one case was registered under Jirania PS vide
No.105/134/S304(A) IPC and the employees of NIT Agartala were called by the
Investigating Officer of Jirania PS every now and then in connection with the said case.
Dr. Parimal Chakraborty, Medical Officer of NITA Medical Unit was called by Jirania
PS on 24/2/2014 and had to take bai] in connection with the said case.

The Chairman and the Members of the BoG requested Shri Kishor Ambuly, Member,
BoG, NIT Agartala & Secretary to the Government of Tripura, Dept. af Higher
- Education, to take appropriate steps so that the employees of NIT Agartala are not
harassed in connection with the said case.

’ The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chair. °

Vv Papin > fo] 7e!Y

o
Mee
(Sumanta Chali banti) ‘ (Prof. P. N. Singh)
Secretary, Board of Governors Chairman, Board of Governors

& Registrar (i/c), NIT Agartala . NIT Agariala

Page 7 of 7
