
--- Page 1 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala
OFF'ICE OF THE REGISTRAR
MII{UTES OF
FORTYFIRST
MEE,TII{G
SE,I{ATE,
HELD OI{
r4rH JIILY, zoz3
AT
AM.
10.00

--- Page 2 ---
f,fi
National Institute of Technology Agaftala
OFF'TCE OF THE REGISTRAR
B
ffiK PAGB
,
t

--- Page 3 ---
ffi Td'm
Eirt
National Institute of Technology Agartala
registra nita.ac.in
NITA .5 I (7 - ACAD)/SENATF,|2023 I 4l A* f STg Date:oLlll12023
Minutes of the 4L't Senate Meeting
gy
The 41't meeting of SENATE of National Institute of Technolo Agartalawas held on
14th July, 2023 at 10.00 am in the Board Room of N{T Agartala. The following members and
invitee members attended the meeting:
1. Prof. Sarat Kumar Patra Chairman
Director, NIT Agartala
2. Prof. Uday Shanker Dixit Member
ilf
Guwahati, Assam
3. Prof. Manish Pal Member
Professor (CE) & Chairman (AA & IR), NIT Agartala
4. Prof. R. P. Sharma Member
Professor (CE), NIT Agartala
5. Prof. Ratul l)as Member
Professor (CE), NIT Agartala
6. Prof. Sujit Kumar Pal Member
Professor (CE), NIT Agartala
7. Prof. Ardhendu Saha Member
Professor (EE), NIT Agartala
8. Prof. Priyanath I)as Member
Professor (EE) NIT Agartala
9. Prof. Debasish Bhattacharya Member
Professor (MA), NIT Agartala
10. Prof. Ajoy Kumar f)as Member
Professor (ME) & Dean (R&C), NIT Agartala
11. Prof. Prasun Chakraborti Member
Professor (ME) & Dean (P&D), NIT Agartala
t2. Prof. Swapan Bhaumik Member
Professor (ME) & Dean (AA), NIT Agartala
13. Prof. Vipin Kumar Tripathi Member
Prdfessor & HoD (ME), NIT Agartala
14. Prof. Debasis Neogi Mernber
Professor (MHSS), NIT Agartala
15. Prof. Ram Naresh Rai Member
Professor (PE), NIT Agartala
16. Prof. Aparna Nath V[ember
Professor & HoD (PH), NIT Agart ala
17. f)r. Rajsekhar Panua Invitee
Dean (F W), NIT Agartala
18. f)r. John Deb Barma Invitee
Dean (S W-l), NIT Agartala
19. Dr. Uttam Kumar Bera Invitee
Dean (S W-2), NIT Agartala
20. Head of the Department Invitee
Bio Engirreering Department, NIT Agart ala
!
Barjq$ Agartala-7990f6, India. Website-]!I{!!!ita.ac.in
MTNUTES oF THE 41" SENATE 14/07 /2023 Page 1

--- Page 4 ---
ffi'ffi
National Institute of Technology Agartala
re g ist ra r @nita.a c. i ir
2t. Head of the Department lnvitee
Chemical Engineering Department, NIT Agartala
22. Head of the Department Invitee
"Civil
Engineering Department, NIT Agartala
- ., r / a <l Head of the Department Invitee
Computer Sc. & Engineering Department, NIT Agartala
24. Head of the Department Invitee
Electrical Engineering Department, NIIT Agart ala
25. Head of the Department Invitee
Electronics & Comm. Engineering Department,
NIT Agartala
26. Head of the Department Invitee
Production Engineering Departmen{, NIT Agartala
27. Head of the Department Invitee
Chemistry Department, NIT Agart ala
28. Head of the Department Invitee
Mathematics Department, NIT Agart ala
29. Head of the Department Invitee
MHSS Department, I.{IT Agartala
30. Col" {Dr.) Ashish Badola Secret&ty, SEhIATE
Regi s trar, NIT Agart ala
Professor Sarat Kumar Patra, Director & Chairman SENATE NlTAgartala
welcomed Prof. Uday Shanker Dixit, Professor, ME Department, IIT Guwahati,
one of the external rnembers of SENATE of NIT Agartala. The Chairman
SENATE then welcorned all the members and invited them to take part in the
discussion on the agenda points of the meeting. Following this, the Chairman
SENATE invited Prof. Swapan Bhaumik, Dean (Academic Affairs) to place all
the agenda points for open discussion.
The Dean (Academic Affain) then welcomed all the mernbers of the
SENATE r,vho were present in the moeting and requested to come forward with
their valuable suggestions on the agenda points. All the agenda points were
placed one by one. The members present in the nreeting took part in the
discussion and gave their considered views. After detailed discussion, the
following decisions were taken:
,S/4llOL
Item h[o. Confirmation of the Minutes of the 40th Mceting of SENATE hetd
on24/03/2023.
The N{inutes of the 40*h rnoeting of SENATE held on24/03/2023 were
confirmed.
Item No. S/41/02 Action taken report on 40rhmeeting of SENATE
The SENATE perused and ac.cepted the action taken on the item no.
5/40/08, Sl40l10 and Sl4Ol11 of 40s meeting of SENATE held on
24/03/2023.
Agartala-7990A6' India' website-www'nita'ac'in
MTNUTES oF rHE 4l* TE 14/o7,ro?i'j:la'
'ENA

--- Page 5 ---
ffi,m
National Institute of Technology Agartala
registrar@nita.ac.in
5/40/08 - Finalization of seat capacity, educational qualification and
fee structure for the foreign candidates for admission at NIT
Agartala in UG, PG and Ph.D programmes.
5/40/10 - Removal the name(s) of the UG, Dual Degree, PG and Ph.D
students who did not complete their semester registration for
2 (two) semesters or more.
Sl40/ll - Implementation of Rule for award of division/ class to the
students of PG and Dual Degree programmes at per clause
19.1 ofthe UG Rule ofNIT Agartala.
Item No. S/41l03 Consideration and approval of academic calendar of ODD 2023-24
session (modified) and EVEN 2023-24 session.
The SENATE approved and confirmed the calendar of the EVEN
2023-24 session (fresh). The house discussed about the modification on
the calendar of ODD 2023-24 session and decided that the mid-
semester examinations to be completed within 15ft September,2023, as
scheduled earlier, and the end-semester examination to be completed
within 30tr November, 2023. The academic calendars are plaied at
ANNEXURE- I.
Item No. Sl4ll04 Consideration and approval regarding constitution of BUGS of the
Institute.
The SENATE approved and confirmed that tenure of the BUGS
committee to be one year, 50Yo of the members can be changed every
year and the committee can be re-constituted each year by replacing the
members completing tenure of 2 years.
The house also suggested that the issue of inclusion of a member from
industry may be discussed in the next maeting.
Item Nlo. Sl41l05 Consideration and ratification of the reconstituted BPGS of the
Institute.
The SENATE ratified and confirmed the re-constituted Board of Post
Graduate Studies (BPGS) for tenure of 2 years. The committee may be
seen at ANNEXURX,- II.
Item No. S/4U46 Consideration and approval of inclusion of a new elective subject in
Environmental Engineering specialization under Civil Engineering
Department.
The SENATE approved and confirmed the inclusion of an elective
course titled t'Sustainable Design of Technology Systems" in the
curriculum of elective pool of M. Tech in Environmental Engineering
specialization. The house suggested that the CE Department may float
the course as an Open Elective for students of all Departments of the
Institute.
Ba rj a,la, Aga rta la -7 gg0 {6,, India. We bsite-www. n ita. ac. i n
MII{UTES OF THE 41'1 SENATE t4/07 /2023

--- Page 6 ---
ffi,m
w f\, tR \n f\. +
National Institute of Technology Agartala
re g i st ra r@nita.ac. i ir
The house authorized the Chairman, SENATE regarding the approval of
the detailed syllabus of the rnentioned course.
Item No. Sl41/07 Consideration and approval for Introduction of new elective course
(Elective - IV) for B.Tech. Programme of Electrical Engineering
Department.
The SENATE approved and confirmod the new elective course titled
"Introduction to Electric Vehicle Technology" und€r Elective- IV of
B.Tech. programme of EE Department.
The house authorized the Chairman, SENATE regarding the approval
of the detailed syllabus of the rnentioned cours€.
Item No. S/41l08 Consideration and approval of Student Discipline Manual to be
followed by the students of NIT Agartala.
The SENATE accepted in principle the Student Discipline Manual for
NIT Agartala. Further, it was suggested that a committee of following
members may further recomm€nd on the draft Student Discipline
Manual and may be placed in the next meeting:
Role in
Sl. no. Name and designation
cornmittee
1. Prof. Swapan tshaumik, Prof. (ME) & Dean (AA) Chairman
2. Prof. IJmesh Mishra, Prof., CE Deptt. Member
J a . Dr. John D€b Barma, Asso. Prof. tME) & Dean{SW- 1) Member
4. Dr. [Jttam Kr. Bera, Asso. Prof. (MA) & Dean (SW - 2) Member
Mr. R"K. Bhogendro Meitei, Assff. Prof. {ME) &, Chief
5. Convenor
Warden
ltern No. S/41/09 Consideration and approval for Guidelines and Evaluation
Parameters f,or Summer Internship .Project and Dissertation of
MBA Programme under the Department of Managemento
Itrumanities & Social sciences (MHSS).
The SENATE approved and confirmed the proposal of the Department
of MHSS regarding the Guidelines and Evaluation Parameters for
Summer Internship Project and Disseftation of MBA Programme. The
guidelines is enclosed at ANNEXURE- III.
Item No. 5/41/10 Consideration and approval for guiding Ph. D scholar(s) from
other Institut{s) by the faculty of i\IT Agartala.
The SEjNATE approved the f,aculty members of NIT Agartala may be
issued NOC by the Dean (FW) for supervising uG, PG and Ph. D
students of other institutes of {nstitute of, National Importance {INI),
Government Stand alone University, Institutes having NIRF ranking
within 150 in rcspective category, and CSIR labs, with the following
conditions:
'+.
Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. Website-ww.nilgd!
MINUTES OF THE 41" SENATE 14107 /2023 r Page 4

--- Page 7 ---
W f*\ tR \f\ n. ff + i.,M
National Institute of Technology Agartala
registra r@nita.ac.in
l. A faculty member cannot supervise more than 5 (five) students
from outside Institute simultaneously.
2. Chairman SENATE may approve on special grounds for
supervising of more than 5 (five) students.
3. In cases of Ph. D scholar sup€rvision, point in respect of Clause
7 .8 of the Institute Ph. D Regulations 2018 will not be considered
while calculation of total points for supervising Ph. D scholar at
NITA.
Item No. S/4llLI Consideration and approval of starting PG courses at NIT
Agartala in part-time mode with a minimum duration of 3 (three)
years.
'fhe SENATE accepted in principle about starting of Masters
programmes at NIT Agartala in part-time mode. The hous€ advised
that the detailed draft guidelines/ modalities and regulation may be
discussed in the BPGS and put before the SENATE in the subsequent
meeting.
ltem No. S/4llI2 Consideration and approval of conversion from regular to part-
time for students in 2od year of M. Tech programme of NIT
Agartala, if the student receives and joins employment
The SENATE accepted in principle about the conversion of regular to
part time for M. Tech students at NIT Agartala. The house advised that
the detailed draft regulation may be discussed in the BPGS and put
before the SENATE.
Item No. S/4lll3 Consideration and approval of including MCA qualification for
admission in Ph. D programme under CSE Department.
The SENATE approved and con,firmed proposal of the CSE
Department to include MCA degree under admission to Ph. D in
Computer Science & Engineering. The house deliberated the following:
1. Candidates with pure science background and having MCA a
subsequent degree will be considered.
2. MCA degree may be considered equivalent to B. Tech. and
candidates should possess MCA with 85% or 8.5 CGPA (in a 10
point scale). A relaxation of 5% or 0.5 CGPA (in a 10 point scale)
for SC/ST/ Phlaically challenged or differently abled candidates
with valid NET/ GATE scor€, will be considered for Ph. D
programme in Computer Science & Engineering Departrnent.
3. In such cases, the candidates if selected Will have to carry out and
complete a minimum of 24 credits course works, in-line with B.
Tech, to continue the Ph. D programme at the Institute.
4. Such scholars will be governed by the regulations of the regular
and part-time scholars of the Institute, as applicable.
1
Barjala, Agartala-7 99016' India. Website-ry.n!ta.ac;!4
MTNUTES OF THE 41" SENATE 1,4/07 /2023 ,. Page 5

--- Page 8 ---
w f'", x& \ r\ f'\. f + fi,ffi
National Institute of Technology Agartala
registra r@nita.ac.in
Item l{o. S/4I/14 Consideration and approval for linancial assistance to the Ph. D
scholar under Project Staff Category on closure of project at NIT
Agartala.
The SENATE approved and confirmed that student admitted to Ph. D
programme can be provided financial assistance for a period of 3
(three) y€ars following the project closure {with total duration of 5
years).
In such cases, scholarship may be given at par to the Full-time with
Scholarship category till a rnaximum of 3 years or submission of thesis,
whichever is earlier, strictly based on satisfactory performance and
recommendation of the Department. This will be applicable from 2024-
25 academic session.
Item No. S/41/Ls Consideration and approval for initiation of new PhD programm€
(EXECUTIVE Ph. D) at NIT Agartala.
The SENATE accepted in principle to initiate new PhD programme
(EXECUT{VE Ph. D) at NIT Agartala. The house advised that the
detailed draft guidelines, as followed by NIT R.ourkela and other
Institutes may be explored. Fees for the course may be discussed in the
BPGS and put before the SENATE as a detailed proposal.
Item No. S/41/L6 Consideration and approval for amendment in the minimum
qualification criteria of B. Tech/ B.E or Equivalent degree students
for direct admission in PhD programnr€.
Th€ SENATE approved andconfirmed the following amendment in the
Ph. D Regulation 2018, in terms of the minimum qualifrcation criteria
as below:
B.E.i B.Tech./ B.Pharm or similar discipline graduates, from an
Institute/ University with average NIRF ranking of within 100
(Engineering ca*egory) over last 3 years, and Institutes of National
trmportance, with academic record as 7O%o ot 7.5 CGPA in a l0 point
scale, can.be considered for direct admission in PhD programm€. Such
candidates must have valid GATEI NET score card tenable for the year
of admission.
ltem No. S/4L|I7 Consideration of enhancement of the honorarium to the foreign
examiner and Indian examiner for the Ph. D thesis evaluation.
The SENATE approved and confirmed to enhance the honorarium to
the foreign examinsr for evaluation of Ph. D thesis from USD 300 to
USD 400. Further, in -regards to the lndian examiner, after threadbare
discussion and referring to NIT D€lhi, NIT Sikkim, IIT Guwahati, IIT
Palakkad, etc., it was resolved that the thesis evaluation fee for Indian
examiner to be enhanced from Rs. 5,000/- to Rs. 10,000/-.
Barjala, Agartala -7990!6, India. Website@
MINUTES OF THE 41'1 SENAT E 14 /07 /2A23 :. Page 6

--- Page 9 ---
ffi,ffi
National Institute of Technology Agartala
re g i st ra r @nita. a c. i ri
Item No. Sl41l18 Consideration and approval to start Institute fellowship to M. Tech
and Ph. D students in Engineering not having GATE score card.
The SENATE approved and confirmed that an amount of maximum of
50Yo of the GATE/ MoE scholarship, to be considered as 'Institute
fellowship' for the students admitting in the M. Tech and Ph. D
programmes of all branches of the Institute. Such student will also
work as Teaching Assistant (TA) in the Department and scholarship
will be given on satisfactory performance of academic activities in the
Department, as certified by the Head of Department.
Item No. Sl4lll9 Consideration and approval of amendment to the rule concerning
the essential qualification for obtaining minimum qualifying marks
in the written examination for admission to Ph. D, M. Tech and
M.Sc. programmes through the Institute-level examination.
The SENATE approved and confirmed the following:
A. In respect to admission in Ph. D programmes, following points
are applied:
Candidates with GATEAIET scorecard may be given preference
in the weightage.
The amended weightage criteria for Ph.D. admission through
Institute- level examination
:
Sl. no. Weiehted criterion Proposed Marks
I Undergraduate l0
2. Post-Graduate 20
15 Marks Maximum
(1 paper in SCI/SCIE/SSCI/Scopus
3. Paper Publication indexed j ournal-l 5 marks,
I paper in SCOPUS indexed
Conference- 10 marks)
Written 30
4.
(may be onlinel offline) (Cut-off marks - 09)
GATEAIET scorecard
5. l5
(preference to be given)
10
6. lnterview
(Minimum qualifying marks - 5)
Total Marks 100
the qualiffing criterion.
out of which 10 Questions will be from UG level of the candidate
applying to the Department and 20 Questions will be from the
specializations under the concerned Department, as the minimum
eligibility is PG Degree. Multiple Choice Based Questions will be
considered for 30 marks.
Ba rj alao Aga rta la -7 99046, I ndi a. We bsite-www. nita. ac. i n
MINUTES OF THE 4l't SENATE 14/07 /2023 ji

--- Page 10 ---
w 1-\ Ee \n f\, f + fi,ffi
National Institute of Technology Agartala
registra r@nita.ac. itr
GATE score, for them 30 Questions will be of at B. Tech level as
MCQ.
B. Following points are proposed for admission to M.Tech. &
M.Sc. Programmes (Non-CCMT and Non-CCMN) through the
Institute-level examination
At lea$ 4Aoh marks on the overall weightage rnay be considered
as the qualifying criteriorl.
o The amended weightage criteria for M. Tech. & M. Sc. (Non-
CCMT and Non{CMND admission, against vacant s€ats after
admission through CCMT & CCMN through Institute-level
€xamination:
Criterion 1Oto l}tk/Diploma B. Tech GATE/NET Written lnterview
10
30
(Minimum
Marks t0 15 25 l0 (Cut-off
qualifying
marks - 09)
mad<s - 5)
ltem No. S/4UZA Consideration and approval to enhance the provision of Research
Operating Grant to Fh. D and M. Tech. Scholars.
The SENATE approved and confirmed the proposal of enhancement of
Research Operating Grant {ROG) to INR 40,000/- and INR 20,000/-
p€r annum for Ph. D and M. Tech. scholars respectively. The house
su,ggested that modalities may be framed by the O/o the Dean (FW)
and may be placed for further approval of FC and BoG.
ltem Nlo. S/4ll2l Consideration and approval of minor modification of Ph. D forms
related to thesis examiner details, thesis evaluation, Oral
Examination Board, and final rscomm€ndation & approval of
degree.
Th€,SENATE approved and confirmed the rnodifred Ph. D forms 14,
l4(A), 15 and lf. The house suggested that these forms may be
uploaded on the Institute rvebsite after publication of the minutes of
this nreeting. The modified forms are presented in ANNEXURE- IV.
Item No" S/4I/22 Consideration and approval of starting fellowship to the Ph. D
scholars under Self-Financed utegory at NIT Agartala if quatify
in GATE/ NET examination at a later stage.
The SENATE approved and confirmed that scholan admitted
provisionally under Full-time self financed category may be allowed
for MoE scholarship if the scholar qualifies GATE/ NET/JRF within I
(one) year from the date of admissiron. An extension of 1 (one) more
y€ar may be given subject to recomrnendation of the Department and
subsequent approval of the Chairman, SENATE. The house further
resolved that tenure of scholarship for such scholar to be from the date
Barj ala, Aga rta la -7 99A t6, I ndi a. Website-www. qita. ac. in
MINUTES OF THE 41'1 SENATE M/A7 /2A23 ,

--- Page 11 ---
w f\ s& \r\. R. f + fi'ffi
National Institute of Technology Agartala
registra r@nita.ac.in
of submission of the score card/ certificate till the date of submission of
provisional thesis or 5 (five) years from the date of admission,
whichever is earlier. Such scholarship will be governed by the rules
and regulations of the Govt. of India and the Institute, amended from
time to time. Further, the enrollment number in MIS to remain
unchanged if scholarship is approved for any scholar under such
circumstances. This will be applicable from2024-25 academic session.
Item No. S/41123 Consideration and approval of sending the Ph. D thesis to the
Indian examiner if the foreign examiner accepted to evaluate thesis
and unwilling to re-evaluate the modified thesis after suggested
revision "After modification the thesis should be referred back to
me, for final assessment.tt
The SENATE approved and confirmed that, if the foreign bxaminer
suggests for revising the thesis and sent back to him / her for re-
evaluation, the revised thesis is again sent to him/ her. In case, the
foreign examiner ref,uses to re-evaluate the revised thesis due to
different reasons, in such cases, the revised thesis is to be sent to the
Indian Examiner for comments and compliance to examiner queries.
Item No. S/41124 Consideration and approval of selection of supervisor of Ph. D
scholars admitted categories other than Full-time with Scholarship
and calculation.of points for such supervisors.
The SENATE approved and confirmed that scholars admitted in
categories other than Full-time with Scholarship may be allowed to
select supervisor of their choice based on availability. A faculty
member will be allowed to supervise upto 2 (two) scholars who gets
admission rmder QIP and Visvesvaraya schemes.
Further, it was also resolved that point will not be calculated as per
clause 7.8 of Ph. D regulation 2018 for faculty members supervising a
scholar under any category except Full-time with Scholarship (under
MoE and Institute), QIP and Visvesvaraya schemes.
Item No. S/4L/25 Consideration and approval of relaxation of marks by 5o/" in final
qualiffing degree to the SC/ST/Physically challenged candidates
for admission in Ph. D programmes.
The SENATE approved and confirmed the amendment of tlre minimum
eligibility requirement for the purpos€ of admission in Ph. D
programmes as below:
A minimum 650/o of marks or CGPA of 6.5 (on a 10 point scale) for all
candidates. For SC/ ST/ Physically challenged or differently abled
candidates, a relaxation of 5%o or 0.5 CGPA (in a 10 point scale) will
be allowed. Conversion of grade to percentage or vice-versa is not
allowed.
Ba rj ala, Aga rta Ia -7 99A 6, I nd ia. Website-www. nita, ac. tn.
MINUTES OF THE 41" SENATE L4/07 /2023 :' Page 9

--- Page 12 ---
w f*\, :l& \ f\ n ff r i,,ffi
National Institute of Technology Agartala
registrar@nita.ac.in
Item No. 5/41/26 Consideration and approval of renewal of MoU between fl-IT
Agartala and IISER Kolkata.
The SENATE approved and confirmed the renewal of MoU between
NIT Agartala and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research
(IISER) Kolkata at ANNEXURE- V.
The house also suggested that the O/o the Chairman (AA & IR) may
share the summary of outcomes of the MoUs with all the Senators in
the meeting during any proposal of renewal / extension is placed for
approval.
Item No. S/41/27 Consideration and approval of MoU and JDP Agreement between
NIT Agartala and IIT Jammu
The SENATE approved and confirmed the proposal regarding signing
a MoU and Joint Doctoral Degree Program (JDP) Agreements for
collaborative academics and research between NIT Agartala and IIT
Jarnmu. The house authorized ttre Chairman, SENATE for the approval
of the final MoU and JDP for signing. The agreement id enclosed in
ANNEXTJRE- VI.
ftem No. S/4L128 Consideration and approval for Utilization of CPDA fund for visit,
conference, etc..r throughout the year.
Currently, faculty members of the Institute are allowed to visit outside
the Institute during the vrcation period.
The SENATE accepted in principle the process of utilization of CPDA
fund for visit, conferenoe, etc., throughout the year. Further, the house
suggested that the 0/o the Dean{FW) may place for further approval of
FC and BoG. Similar guidelines will be allowed for other funding
souf,ces also.
Itenr hlo. S/41/29 Consideration and approval for CPDA during probation period of
faculty srembers.
Tlrc SENATE accepted in principle the allocation of CPDA fund for
faculty rnember-s of Institute recruited in Pay level of Institute during
their probation period. The house suggested that the O/o the Dean
(FW) may place forfurther approval of FC and BoG.
Item No. 5/41/30 Consideration and approval for Extra page charges for reputed
SCVSCIE journal from CPDA fund.
Th€ SENATE accesed the proposal for payment of the charges for the
extra page in unpaid reputed SCil6CIE journals, Patent filing, may be
utilized from the fund bf CPDA. Article Publication charges for full
paper may not be permissible from CPDA fund. The house suggested
that the O/o the Dean (FW) may place for further approval of FC and
BoG.
Barjala, Agartala-7990!6, India. Website-ggw.nita.ac.in
MINUTES OF THE 4l't SENATE t4/07 /2A23 Page 10

--- Page 13 ---
sir€rffir,m
ffi
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Item No. S/4ll3l Consideration and approval of starting Post-Doctoral Fellowship
programme at ll-IT Agartala.
The SENATE agreed in principle to offer Post-Doctoral Fellowship
(PDF) programme at NIT Agartala. The house advised that the detailed
draft guidelines/ modalities as followed by NIT Silchar may be
explored, discussed in BPGS and put before the SENATE.
Item No. S/41132 Consideration and approval of rules of attendance of students.
The house perused the proposal of the attendance of students and
deliberated that a committee consisting of following members may be
constituted to frame a guideline and same may be placed before the
subsequent SENATE meeting for approval:
Role in
Sl. no. Name and designation committee
1. Prof. Swapan Bhaumik, Prof (ME) & Dean (AA) Chairman
2. Prof. Ardhendu Saha, Prof., EE Deptt. Member
3. Prof. Sujit Kumar Pal, Prof., CE Deptt. Member
4. Prof, Debasish Bhattacharya, Prof., MA Deptt. Member
5. Dr. Kamalesh Debnath, Asstt. Prof. (ECE) & Asso. Dean (uG) Convenor
Item No. 5/41133 Consideration 'and approval regarding amendment in the
procedure of semester registration for students of 1\[IT Agartala.
The SENATE approved the proposal of amendment in the semester
registration process of students, as below:
Students will be allowed to register for a period for payment of semester
registration fee as well as subject registration in the MIS before the date
of commencement of classes, which will be termed as Pre-registration"
The registration to be completed in a 3 (three) working days of start of
semester.
1. Upto l't to 3'd working day, normal fee charged.
2. From 4th to 7th days, & fine of Rs. 5000/- imposed as penalty.
3. Beyond the date in sl. no.- 2, fine of Rs. 10,000 l-be imposed as
penalty up to. 15 days.
In case, student admitted to hospital, immediate calamity in the family,
and similar? may be dealt on case to case basis under discretionary
power of the Chairmdn, SENATE, on recommendation of concerned
HoD and Dean (AA).
Ba rj ala, Aga rta la -7 990 46, I ndia. We bsite-www. rtit4. 4c. i n
MINUTES OF THE 4l't SENATE !4 /07 /2023 : Page 11

--- Page 14 ---
w,ffi
w n rR \n n
+
National Institute of Technology Agaftala
registra r@nita.ac.ih
Item No. 5/41134 Consideration and approval of procedure to nominate faculty
members to the Board of Governors (BoG) by SENATE.
The SENATE approve'd and confirrned the proposal of procedure to
nominate one Professor and one from other category {Associate
Professor or Assistant Proftssor) to the Board of Governors (BoG) by
SENATE. The procedure of nomination is given in ANNEXURE- VII.
Item N0. S/41l35 Consideration and approval of UG and PG coordinator and Co-
coordinatorship for academic programmes in Departments and
their tenure.
The SENATE approved andconfirmed the following:
HoD will nominate UG and PG Coordinator and Co- coordinator for 2
(two) years. One of them will be replaced each year on completion of
at least 2 years term. The senior faculty member of the two members
on designation will be the Coordinator.
Item No. S/4L136 Consideration and approval of fee strucfure for the 4- year
Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP) to be
commenc€d from 2023-24 academic session.
The SENATE approved and confirmed that the fte structure of BS-MS
course (first 8 semrsters) of the lnstitute to be followed for the -year
ITEP course commencing from 2Q23-24 session, given in
AilINEXURE- VIU.
Item No. 5/41137 Consideration and approval of MoU between NIT Agartala and
North Eastern Space Application Centre (hlESAC), Meghalaya.
Th€ SENATE approved and confirmed'the proposal of signing MoU
between NIT Agartala and North Dastern Space Application Centre
OIESAC), Adeghalaya. The draft MoU is placed in ANNEXURE- IX.
Item No. 5/41/38 Any other itern, with the permission of Chair.
Fbllowing 3 {three) other i$ems were discussad in the rneeting.
Item f{o. S/4IlA/l Consideration and approval of fund for contractual faculty
members for attending conferense, reseaf,ch related work.
The house discussed that the contractual faculty members serving the
Institute with consolidat€d pay may be allowed for expenses limited to
an amount of Rs. 50,000/- per y€ar for the purpose of attending
conference to present pap€r, lesearch related aspects, etc. The members
perused that this will enhance the number of publication of the
Institute, improve research quality and in turn help the Institute in the
,. NIRF rankings. The SENATE also decided that faculty member
MINUTES OF THE 4l-t SENATE t4/07 /2023 i Page 12

--- Page 15 ---
ffifirffitu
National Institute of Technology Agartala
registra r@nita.ac.in
serving at least 1 (one) year at the Institute in contractual position on
consolidated pay to be eligible for this fund sanction.
Further, the house suggested that the O/o the Dean (FW) may place
proposal for further approval of FC and BoG.
Item hlo. Sl4l/Al2 Consideration and approval of semester registration and fee for
students in exchange schemes of the Institute.
The Chairman (AA & IR) raised that some students undergoing their
studies in other Institutes in exchange program under MoU are facing
problems related to the payment of fees and subsequent semester
registration.
The house discussed the issue and resolved the following:
1. In cases, where the visiting Institute does not require any semester
fee, students have to pay their full applicable fee at NITA.
2. In cases, where the visiting Institute asks for full semester fee at
visiting Institute, the visiting students have to pay 20% of their
applicable fees at NITA, to continue their enrolment at NITA.
3. This applies only to tuition fee.
4. User charges, like all other fees, student activity fee, etc., and
Hostel fee r;i'illnot be charge by NIT Agartala.
Item No. S/4ll*l3 Consideration and approval of duration of retention of the answer
sheets of old examinations (mid-semester and end-semester).
The Head of some Academic Departments raised the issue of retention
of the answer sheets of mid-semester and end-semester examinations at
the Institute which are older of more than 5 years. The SENATE
members discussed in detail and resolved that faculty members to
retain answer sheets of examinations of students for a period upto 2
(two) years from examination. When a faculty member leaves the
Institute on long term leave/ relieved/ superannuates, the scripts will be
handed over to the HoD.
The meeting ended with thanks to all.
{u
k
(Col. (Dr") Ashish Badola)
Chairman, SEI\ATtr Registrar & Secretary, SEI{ATE
Ba rj al a, Aga rta la-7 990 46, In d i a. We bsi te-wwlv,? rli tn. a c. i n
MINUTES OF TI-IE 4l 't SENATE L4 /07 /2023 Page 13