
--- Page 1 ---
Minutes/ 27" (Special) BOG
" ONITA f duly 25, 2013

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799055
Ce af eae ee a oe a -
Minutes of the 27 (Special) Meeting of the
- Board of Governors
held on July 25, 2013

 

At Conference Room of NIT Transit House, New Delhi

ALI ta Pt Pt ta tr tt en APRIL A YA AEA AP aR Py Ae

The 27" (Special) meeting of the Board of Governors of the Institute was held on
July 25, 2013 (Thursday) at 3:30 pm in the Conference Room of NIT Transit
House, New Delhi.

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman of the Board of Governors (BoG), NIT Agartala,
presided over the meeting.

The following members were present in the meeting :

(1) Prof. P. N. Singh : Chairman, BoG of NIT Agartala.
(2) Prof. P..K. Base ""~ “t : Member, Director of NIT, Agartala
(3) Shri Yogendra Tripathi . : Joint Secretary & Financial Advisor,
MHRD, Govt. of India,
(4) Shrik. Ambuly — . : Invitee, Secretary to the Govt. of Tripura,
; Dept. of Higher Education
(5) Shri Rajesh Singh :  Director,NITs,MHRD, Govt. of India
(6) Prof. Nitindra Nath Som : Member, Former Professor of Jadavpur
‘ oo University.
(7) Prof. Sekhar Datta: : Member, Principal, Tripura Institute of
Technology. a
(8) Dr. R. P. Sharma : Member, Professor, Civil Engineering
: Dept., NIT Agartala.
(8) Shri. John Deb Barma Member, Assistant Professor, Mechanical
Engineering Dept., NIT Agartala.
(10) Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti : Secretary, Registrar, NIT, Agartala

Shri Tridip Chakraborty, Principal, Women’s poner; Government of Tripura,
- could not attend the meeting.

The Chairman, Board of Governors of NIT Agartala and the Director, NIT
Agartala, welcomed Shri Yogendra Tripathi, Joint Secretary & Financia! Advisor,

Page 1 of 5 He ule”
apie

a5 al

 


--- Page 2 ---
 

Minutes? 27" (Special) HOG
NITA / duly 25, 2015

Shri Rajesh Singh, Director, NiTs and Shri Kishore Ambuly, Secretary, Higher
Education,Govt. of Tripura and the other Members of the BoG,

The Chairman, Board of Governors then invited the Director, NIT Agartala and
the Registrar (I/C) to initiate discussion on agenda items.

Item No. 27.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of 26" Board of Governors
Meeting.

The minules of the 26" Board of Governors meeting held on June 18, 2013 were
circulated among the members for comments/ observations. No comments were
received from the Board Members. The minutes of the 26" Board of Governors
meeting was confirmed. The action taken report of the 26"" Board of Governors
meeting will be placed in the next BoG meeting.

ltem No. 27.2: issue relating to discontinuation of the services of (i)
Dr. Bidyut Kumar Bhattacharyya, (ii) Dr. Harwant Singh
Chhabra and (iii) Dr. S.K. Mukhopadhyay.

The Board of Governors of NIT Agartala was appraised about the discontinuation
of services of (i) Dr. Bidyut Kumar Bhattacharyya, (ii) Dr, Harwant Singh Chhabra
and (iii)Dr. S.K. Mukhopadhyay, issued by the Director, NIT Agartala vide Orders
No.F.NITA.2.2(68-Estt)/Contd/2012/287 1-76, dated 276.2013, (ii)
No.F.NITA.2.2(7 1-Estt)/Contd/2012/2922-27, dated 286.2013 and (iii)
No. F.NITA.2.2(67-Estt)/Contd/2012/2852-55, dated 26.6.2013 respectively. The
BoG was also apprised of the circumstances in which the discontinuation orders
were issued,

 

The BoG has also carefully perused the order dated 40.07.2013 passed by the
Hon'ble High Court of Tripura in CM Appl. 224 of 2013 arising out of WP (C)
No.200 of 2013 filed by Dr. Bidyut Kumar Bhattacharyya, the orders dated
49.07.2013 passed in WP (C) No.206 of 2013 In ihe case of Dr. Harwant Singh
Chhabra and in WP (C) No.207 of 2013 passed in the case of Dr. S.K,
Mukhopadhyay.

ln future to avoid recurrence of omission of credential of appointees, the BoG
ordered the ‘Director to do needful to verify all necessary original documents as
regards to eligibility qualifications of candidates at the time of selection and
before submitting joining report to NITA.

The BoG further resolved to fix up the responsibility of lapses on overlooking the
essential qualifications and other credentials while selecting the candidates and
before reporting for duty in the institute.

Pursuant to'the said orders of the Hon'ble High Court, the BoG has ciscussed

the issue of ‘discontinuation of the incumbents named above and have arrived at

the following conclusion and decision in the cases of said three incumbents

individually in the following manner —
|

c fb
\s", ‘ Page 2 of 5 fuows
4 re


--- Page 3 ---
 

a)

Minuves/ 27" (Special) BOG
NITA / July 25, 2013

Regarding Dr. Bidyut Kumar Bhattacharyya : There is huge shortage
of Professor and Senior Faculty in all Departments of NIT Agartala. Due to
exigency and number of vacancies at the level of Professor as reporled by
the Chairman, Selection Committee, the Selection Committee members
opined to take some faculty on contractual basis for managing the
upcoming semester classes. Without scrutinizing the details relevant
qualification of Dr. Bidyut Kumar Bhattacharyya, he was interviewed over
phone from USA. The Selection Committee noticed that some of his
publication in IEEE giving an impression that he might be suitable as
Professor of Electrical Engineering without verifying the relevance of his
essential degrees whether suitable for the that post or not, which is a
lapse on the part of the Selection Committee. Dr. Bhattacharyya does not
have any relevant qualification to. act as a Professor of Electrical
Engineering, his all essential degree e.g. B.Sc., M.Sc. and Ph.D are in
Physics and does not have 10 years of teaching experience which is an
essential experience for the post of Professor. Dr. Bhattacharyya did not
supervise any Ph.D. scholar in his service period which is also an
essential requirement to become a Professor of the concerned
Department.

The fact came under question when two applications under the RTI Act
2005 were received by NITA. The said information, therefore, was of great
concern for the Director, NITA who is responsible to administer the affairs
of the Institution including the academic interest of the students. So, when
the interest of the students was of paramount consideration, no third issue
can supersede the same. The BoG is also of the view that whenever such
a lapse is detected, it is the responsibility of the concerned authority to
rectify the same and thereby, the continuation of Dr. Bhattacharyya in the
post of Professor of Electrical Engineering was rightly found of no use for
the students of said branch.

As per the Statute of NIT under section 27 the services of the temporary
employee shall be liable to termination at any time by notice of one month
in writing given either by the employee to the appointing authority or by
the appointing authority to the employee for all.

The BoG resolved to give Dr. Bhattacharyya one month notice for
termination of his appointment and the order be issued by the Director

immediately.

Regarding Dr. Harwant Singh Chhabra : The BoG has carefully gone
through the erder of the Hon’ble High Court dated 19-7-2013 and the
other: relevant records placed before the BoG by NITA and found that
NITA:has received a letter from MHRD vide No.7/7/2013 dated 10-6-2013
wherein it is noticed that Dr. Chhabra ex-faculty of RGIIM, Shillong used
to send frequent complaints against the Director I/C of the said Institution
seeking her immediate removal and while making such complaints Dr.
Chhabra used his designation as Dean Academic, Chairman, Placement

> cc
Page 3 of 5 Ane Lig “

: es
\ ce > Geir

\ \ “S


--- Page 4 ---
 

Minutes! 27" (Speeiwl) BEd
NITA/ July 25, 2013

and Professor of Marketing and Strategy, Indian Institute of Management,
Shillong, actually when he was working in NITA,

In the said letter of MHRD, the NITA was requested to look info the maiter
and to take appropriate action as per rules.

It is further revealed from the note dated 28.6.2013 of the Dean
(Academics) that Dr. Chhabra in the capacity of Head of the School of
Management has avoided taking of classes in the class routine prepared
by him which was totally undesirable from the Head of a Faculty,
particularly when the said person [s very much interested in pursuing for
various facilities.

The BoG considers that the role of a teacher of a prestigious Institution
like NITA should not be unbecoming of a teacher and one should not
avoid his basic responsibility of taking classes as’ Head of a particular
branch, brushing aside the interest of the students for whose interest he
was engaged particularly when he is found serious for his personal
benefits,

This gross negligence of duties and impersonating behavior of Prof.
Chhabra alone should be enough to terminate his services without giving
any notice. However, keeping in view the Section 27 of the NIT Statute,
the BoG resolved to give Prof. Chhabra one month notice for termination
of his appointment. The order of termination be issued by the Director

immediately.

Regarding Dr. S.K. Mukhopadhyay : In the case of Dr. S.K.
Mukhopadhyay it has been found that at the time of engagement he was
72 years when the age of re-employment even on contract basis can be
made up to 70 years as per norms and that is found to be the reason
behind the issuance of the order of discontinuation when the said fact
came under question after an application under RT! Act, 2005 was filed by
someone questioning his engagement on ground of age.

It is to be noted that Dr. Mukhopadhyay was appointed on contractual
basis with a consolidated pay for a period of one year, i.e. up to
November 2013,- Due to shortage of faculty at senior level: Dr.
Mukhopadhyay was given appointment though he was overaged. As Dr.
Mukhopadhyay, is performing his duties and teaching assignments
satisfactorily. BoG resolved to allow the continuation of service of Dr.
Mukhopadhyay in the NITA till completion of his contractual tenure of one
year on special consideration.

-The BoG was informed that a committee under the chairmanship of Prof. Nitindra
Nath Som was constituted as per the decision of 25" BoG meeting held on
_ November 18, 2012 under the agenda item no, 25.8.3 to prepare a check list and

= Page 4 of 5 ag G..
Way Hi (divs
\ha, oars

4 % ast |} :

\


--- Page 5 ---
 

Minutes! 27" (Special) BOG
NIVA # duly 25, 2043

develop a mechanism to scrutinize the documents submitted by the candidates,
on or before appearing for the interview and or before joining the duty on
selection. The BoG resolved that this committee will lay down the norms for aall
appointments including contractual/ temporary/Visiting Professors at the earliest
to prevent recurrence of lapses in terms of eligibility qualifications and age etc.

Item No. 27.3: T.A. and D.A. of Prof. (Dr) P.K. Bose, Director, NIT
Agartala for attending Court Cases even after
relinquishment of charges of Director, NIT Agartala.

BoG resolved to pay Prof. (Dr.) P.K. Bose TA/DA as and when his services are
required to attend the court cases related to NIT Agartala in official capacity as
former Director of NIT, Agartala.

Item No, 27.4: Allowing Prof. (Dr.) P. K. Bose, Director, NIT Agartala to
attend 12 International Conference of Sustainalole
Energy Technologies (SET 2013) at Hong Kong, China
under TEQIP-II fund.

The BoG resolved not to accept the proposal. However Prof. Bose in. his
personal capacity may approach NPIU for financial assistances.

ltem No. 27.5: To consider the job assigned by the Director to
different employees of NIT Agartala for ratification of
the Board. :

The BoG noted the item.

Item No. 27.6: - issue relating to engagement of Legal Adviser and
Counselor for NIT Agartala.

 

The BoG suggested that the Institute should prepare a panel of legal advisors
along with the resume of each name suggested. The list be placed before the
next meeting of BoG for its approval.

Item No. 27.7: Any other item with permission of the Chair.
There was no item for discussion.

The meeting ended with vote of thanks to the Chair.

Lethe _ Qu

\ AK aH Me ae
(Sumantit Chakrabayti) ¢ (Prof, P. N. Singh)

Secretary, Board of Govemors . Chairman, Board of Governors

& Registrar (i/c), NIT A partala NIT Agartala

Page 5 of 5
