
--- Page 1 ---
 

Minutes! 25" BOG NITA
November 18, 2012

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECIINOLOGY AGAH PALA
WEST TROPURA, PIN: 799055

edb a dak

 

Minutes of the 25" Meeting of the
Hoard of Governors
Aheld on 183" November 2ZOoOiz2

At Conference Room of NIT TESTE House

The 25" meeting of the Board of Governors of the Institute was held on November 18,
2.012 at 12:30 pm in the Conference Room of NIT, Agartala.

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman of the Board of Governors (BOG), NIT, Agartala, presided
over the meeting.

The following members were present in the meeting :

(1) Prof. P.N. Singh : Chairman, BOG of NIT Agartala.
(2) Prof. P. K. Bose : Member, Director of NIT, Agartala
(3) Shri Satpal Sharma : Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India,

(Representative of Financial Advisor, Dept. of
Higher Education, MHRD).

(4) Smt. Vandana Choudhary > Section Officer (TS, MHRD, Govt. of India
(Representative of Joint Secretary (Technical
Education), Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD).

(5) Prof. Nitindra Nath Som : Member, Former Professor of Jadavpur
University.

(6) Prof. Sekhar Datta : Member, Professor of ‘Tripura Institute of
Technology.

(7) Shri P. N. Das : Member, Representing Faculty, NIT, Agartala.

(8) Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti : Secretary, Registrar, NIT, Agartala

(9). Shri K. Ambuly :  Invitee, Secretary, Deptt. of Higher Education,

Gove. of Tripura,

Dr. Bindu Dey, Advisor of Biotechnology, Department of Biotechnology, Govt. of India
and Shri Tridip Chakraborty, Principal, Women’s Polytechnic, Government of Tripura,
could not attend the meeting.

The Chairman and the Director welcomed Shri Satpal Sharma, Under Secretary, MARD;

Smt. Vandana Choudhary, Section Officer (TS. 11), MHRD; Shri K. Ambuly, Secretary,
Deptt. of Higher Education, Govt. of Tripura and also the other members of the BOG.

2,0
x Fie
AYNYT

Page } of 6


--- Page 2 ---
 

Minules! 25" BOG) NITA
Navember 18, 2012

The Chairman then inviled the Director and the Registrar (/C) to initiate discussion on
agenda items.

Item No. 25.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of 24" Board of Governors Meeting.
The minutes of 24" Board of Governors meeting held on August 25", 2012 were
circulated 10 all Members for comments/observations. The Minutes of the 24” BOG

meeting was confirmed,

Item No. 25.2: Action taken on the decision of the 24" meeting of the Board of
Governors held on 25'" August 2012.

The actions taken report were noted.

Item No. 25.3: To consider the minutes of 11" meeting of Senate of NIT Agartala
held on 10-10-2012.

The BOG approved the minutes of 11" meeting of the Senate of National Institute of
Technology Agartala, held on 10" October 2012.

Jn connection with Item No.S/11/50, the Chairman initiated the discussions, In this regard
the Director, NIT Agartala, apprised the Board about the over-crowded classes and labs
in Civil Engineering Department, which may lead to discontent among the students along
with the dilution of academic standard. Thé number of teachers available is not enough to
cater such huge number of students, which may lead to non-engagement of teacher in
Some Cases.

However, it was pointed out that the actual annual intake in Civil Engineering and Civil
and Transportation Engineering approved by the Board was only 120. Additional increase
in intake strength has been on account of 27% increase under OBC quota by the MHRD,
Any change in annual intake, therefore, needs the concurrence of MHRD. Further, the
Civil Engineering discipline has the highest demand in the State of Tripura. This may
create local discontent. Considering other related repercussions the Board requested the
Senate to reconsider its decision under Item No.S/11/50 as regards to reduction of annual
intake in B.Tech Civil Engineering from 184 to 150.

’

Item Nu. 25.4: To consider the recommendations of Interaction Meeting for
appointment of Professor/ Associate Professor and Sports Officer on
contract basis at NIT, Agartala.

The recommendations made by the Interaction Committee in respect of selection of
Professor/ Associate Professor and Sports Officer on contract basis held on 18" October
2012 at HT Extension Centre, Salt Lake City, Kolkata were placed before the Board after

Page 2 of 6

 


--- Page 3 ---
Minutes! 25!" BOG NITA
November }8, 2042

 

opening the sealed envelopes during the meeting. As per the recommendations of the
Interaction Committee, the Board approved the appointments as listed below :

 

 

 

 

[ SI. Name ofthe 1 Designation | “Remarks
No ca nd idate —— assem lanaserterr a eect —- oo jarearermmrrerrrean en
| Depariment of Production Engineering eee
1. | Prof. S. K. Professor |As contractual faculty with a monthly
Mukhopadhyay | consolidated remuneration of | Rs,

| 1,25,000/. Rent free accommodation will
be provided. The contract period is
initially for 1 (one) year which may be
t ______| extended upto 3 years.
2. | Dr. Prabir Nandi Professor As contractual faculty in the pay scale of
Rs. 97,400 ~ Rs. 67,000/- and his pay shall
be fixed at a stage of Rs. 43,000/- with
AGP Rs, 10,000/- and with 5 non-
compounded increments plus DA and
other admissible allowances. HRA will
not be admissible if accommodation will
1 be provided by NI'T'A. ‘The contract. period
will be initially for | (one) year which

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Department of Business Adm inistration —__ cepsupemcllies i parmenans |
1. | Prot, Harwant Professor As contractual faculty in the pay scale of |
Singh Chhabra Rs. 37,400 — Rs, 67,000/- and his pay shall |

be fixed al a stage of Rs. 43,000/- with
AGP Rs. 10,000/- and with 7 non-
compounded -increments plus DA and
other admissible allowances. HRA will
not be admissible if accommodation will
be provided by NITA. The contract period
will be initially for 1 (one) year which
_. may be extended up to 3 years.
_ | Department of Electrical Engineering .
1. | Dr. Bidyut Kr. Professor [As contractual faculty in the pay scale of
Bhattacharya Rs, 37,400 — Rs. 67,000/- and his pay shall
be fixed at a stage of Rs, 43,000/- with
AGP Rs. 10,000/- and with 12. non-
compounded increments plus DA and
other admissible allowances. HRA will
not be admissible if accommodation will
be provided by NITA. The contract period
will be initially for 1 (one) year which
_may be extended up to 3 years,

 

 

i. | Dr, Debatosh Professor | As contractual faculty in the pay scale of
Datta Rs. 37,400 — Rs. 67,000/- and his pay shail

i —ur ingle,
Page 3 of 6

 

 

 

 

 


--- Page 4 ---
Minules/ 25" BOG/WNITA

Noventber )8, 2012

I be fixed al a stape of Rs. 43,000/ with
AGP Rs, 10,000/- and with S non-

compounded increments plus DA and

other admissible allowances, HRA will |

not be admissible if accommodation will

be provided by NITA. The contract. period

will be initially for 1 (one) year which

  

 

Non-Teaching Staff

 

l. | Shri Sabyasachi ‘| Sports Officer | As contractual employee with a monthly.
Chaudhury consolidated remuneration of Rs, 45,000/-,
Rent free accommodation will be
provided. The coniract period wil! be
initially for 1 (one) year which may be

 

 

 

 

 

Item No, 25.5: Finalisation of the date and name of Chief Guest for 5" Convocation
Ceremony of the Institute.

The Board appreciated the efforts taken by the Director, NIT Agartala for inviting His
Excellency ihe President of India to be the Chief Guest for the 5" Convocation of NIT’
Agartala. The date of the convocation may be fixed as per the schedule given by the
Office of His-Excellency the President of India. In case, the President of India is not
available for the 5“ Convocation of NIT Agartala, the Director, NIT Agartala is
authorized to take steps to finalize the name of a suitable Chief Guest and the date of
Convocation.

Jiem No. 25.6: Administrative approval of renovation, maintenance, repairing and
other allied works to be/ already undertaken by the NIT Agartala.

The Board noted the items and approved.

Tiem No. 25.7: Provision for giving financial Assistantship for the Faculties
(Regular & Contractual) & Technical Staffs/Supporting staffs
(Regular and Contractual) and students(R. Tech, M.Tech and Ph.D)
of NIV Agartala from ‘TEQUP-I fund w.e.f 6" August 2011,

The Board noted the items and approved. Pp ¥
fT h

oN Page 4 of 6

 


--- Page 5 ---
Minutes! 25" BOG NEITA
November 18, 2012

  

Item No. 25.8: Any other item with permission of the Chair,

Addl. Item No. 25.8,1:.To consider the Minutes of the 20" Pinance Committee
Meeting held on November 18, 2012.

The Board approved the decisions taken in the 20'" Finance Committee Meeting held an
18" November, 2012 and accorded financial approval and expenditure sanction.

Addl. Item No. 25.8.2: Resignation of Dr. Bindu Dey, Scientist ‘G’, Advisor of
Biotechnology, Dept. of Biotechnology, Ministry of Seience
& Technology, from the Board of Governors, NIT
Agartala.

The Board was informed that Dr. Bindu Dey, Advisor of Biotechnology, Department of
Biotechnology, Ministry of Science & Technology, Government of India, has tendered
her resignation from the Membership of the Board of Governors of NIT Agartala due to
paucity of time and work pressure. The Board resolved that a letler be addressed lo
Ministry of HRD informing about the resignation and nominate a person to replace Dr.
Bindu Dey, Advisor of Biotechnology as Member of the BOG, NIT Agariala.

Addl, Item No.25.8.3 : Issues related to service matters of Prof, Ajit Kumar Ray and
Prof. Umesh Mishra.

The BOG was appraised about the action taken by the Director of NIT Agartala in the
case of Prof. Ajit Kumar Ray and Prof, Umesh Mishra. The BOG asked the Director, NIT
Agartala to take appropriate necessary steps in both the cases.

To prevent recurrence any such cases in future BOG resolved to constitute a committee
under the Chairmanship of Prof. Nitindra Nath Som, Former Professor and Member,
BOG, NITA. Director, Dean (Faculty Welfare), Dean (Administration), Dean (Academic)
and the Registrar of NIT Agartala will be the Members of the Committee. This
committee may co-opt other members if necessary. The committee will prepare a Check
List and develop a mechanism to scrutinize the documents submitted by the candidates,
on or before appearing for the interview and on or before joining the duty on selection.

The same committee will also review the matters related to Cumulative Professional
Development Allowance (CPDA) and suggest method for proper and effective utilizalion
of CPDA fund by the faculty members.

a Lye sine

Page 5 of 6


--- Page 6 ---
Minutes! 25" BOG/NITA
November 18, 2012

   
 

The terms of reference of this committee can be extended by including such olher items
which improves the overall performance of the institute. Such additional items? inclusion
can be finalized by the Director and other internal members of the committee,

Addl. Item No. 25.8.5: Relief from payment of TVAT of Rs.81,66,353/- against
purchase of articles by NIT Agartala up to September 14,
2012.

After detailed discussion, the Board resolved that NIT Agartala may release the payment

of Rs.81,66,353/- to different suppliers with a condition that ail the suppliers should give
an undertaking that they have paid necessary CST/VAT against the materials supplied 10

NIT Agartala in their respective States.

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chairs.

p
(Suman tal bar ol (Prof, P.N. Singh)

see etary, Board of cal ovyernors Chairman, Board of Governors
& Registrar (I/C), NIT Agartala NIT Agartala

Page 6 of 6
