
--- Page 1 ---
{? Minutes/ 17" BOG/ NIT,
Ped 1 Fobruary 201 |
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799055

A dak a

 

Minutes of the Seventeenth Meeting of the
Board of Go vernors
held on 13" February 2077

At Conference Room of NIT Transit House, Agartala

eventnsensenenesarsavescansesensateneennenseesesasenertssteseanecs

The seventeenth meeting of the Board of Governors of the Institute was held on
13 February 2011 at 11:00 am in the Conference Room of NIT ‘Transit, Hy. ouse,

Kunjaban, Agartala, Tripura,

The fol lowing members were present in the meeting.

(1) Prof. PLN. Singh : Chairman, BOG of NIT Agartala,

(2) Prof. (Dr.) P. K. Bose : Member, Director of NIT, Agartala and
Director (I/C) of NIT Silchar.

(3) Prof. Alok K, Gupta ; Member, Representing large, medium
and smal] scale industries, Professor,
Allahabad University,

(4) Shri K, Ambuly : Representative of the Principal Secretary,
Department of Higher Education, Govt.
of Tripura,

(5) Mr. R. K. Bandhyopadha ya ; Representative of the Joint Secretary,
Ministry of HRD, Govt. of India,

(6) Mr. Tapash Roy : Member, Representing Alumni.

(7) Dr. Prasun Chakraborti : Member, R epresenting Faculty, NIT,

. ‘ Agartala.
(8) Dr. Swapan Bhaumik i Member, Represent: ’ Faculty, NIT,
Agartala,
(9) Dr, D. Bhattacharya : Secretary, Registrar, N IT, Agartala

--/ be dea ey
Page 1 of 7

"she bbe ¢ Poe ™ |
wi


--- Page 2 ---
 

13" Fobruary 2011

At the outset the Director, Prof. P. K. Bose welcomed all the members. He
Specially thanked Mr. R, K. Bandhyopadhaya, Dy, Secretary of MHRD, Prof. Alok K.
Gupta from Allahabad University, Mr. Tapas Roy, DGM of CSE, Kolkata and Mr, K,
Ambuly, Special Secretary of Department of Higher Education, Govt. of Tripura for
attending the meeting despite of their busy schedule.

The Chairman specially thanked Prof. Alok K. Gupta, Shri K. Ambuly and Mr, R.
K. Bandhyopadhaya to have made it possible to attend the meeting,

The Chairman again welcomed all the members present in the meeting and invited
the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussion on agenda points.

PART —A
Item No. 1: Confirmation of the Minutes of Sixteenth Board of Governors niceting.

The Minutes of the Sixteenth meeting of the Board of Governors held on 26"
September 2010 confirmed with the following observations:

(i) Regarding Addl. Item No. 4 of the 16" BOG meeting the Sarangi Committee
Report as accepted by the Ministry of HRD on recruitment rules of Non-
Teaching staff is to be followed,

(ii) Regarding Addl. Item No. 5 of the 16 BOG meeting in place of the word
*‘Non-Gate students’, ‘Non-GATE student? may be read.

However in respect of the remarks submitted by Dr. 8. Bhaumik, Member of the
Institute, the Board advised the Director that a reply on points raised by Dr. Bhaumik
may be given within a short period.

Mr. K. Ambuly, Deputy Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Govt. of
Tripura raised the point that as per the NIT Act 2007, two representatives shall be
nominated by the Govt. of Tripura in the BOG for a duration of three years, but inspite
of a lapse of almost four years, this has not been done. Then the Chairman in consultation
with the representative of Ministry of HRD, present in the meeting requested the Institute
to write a letter addressed to the Joint Secretary, Ministry of HRD for immediate
formation of a new Board, as the present Care Taker Board is going to complete its full
term of five years within next six-months, After getting green signal from the Ministry of
HRD, State Govt. may be requested to nominate its two representatives for the new
Board of Governors of NIT Agarala.

=p dade

ilaksk o Wp cb oe : Page 2 of 7


--- Page 3 ---
1a) ee yeu

Item No.2: Action taken on the decision of the Sixteenth meeting of the Board of
Governors held on 26" September 2010.

5

The Board noted the action taken report with the following observations.

Regarding Agenda Item No, 4/ 16" BOG Meeting/ 2010 on the norms for the
Cumulative Professional Development Allowance for Teaching Staff of NIT Agartala,
the Board approved the same for implementation in the Institute, However, on specific
bonafide issues concerning the faculty members, the norms may be modified from time to
time with the administrative approval of the Director and necessary notification.

PART — B

Item No.3: To consider the réecorumendations of 14 Finance Committee meeting
held on 12" February 201] at 1] am in NIT Transit House, Kunjaban,

Agartala.

The Board discussed on the minutes of the 14° Finance Commitice meeting of
NIT Agartala held on 12" February 2011, which was placed on the table. The Board
approved the recommendations of the Finance Committee meetin g.

Item No.4: To consider the minutes of the Nineteenth Building & Works Committee
meeting of NIT Agartala.

The Registrar read out the minutes 'of the 19! Building & Works Conuniltey
meeting held on 12" February 2011 on various items one by one. The Board noted the
recommendations of the 19" Building & Works Committee meeting of NIT Agartala,

Item No.5: To consider the recommendations of 7" Senate meeting held on 11"
February 2011 at 12 noon in Conference Room of the Institute.

The minutes of the 7 Senate meeting held on 11" February 2011 was placed on the
table. The Board approved the recommendations of the 7" Senate Committee meeting

with the following observations.

(i) The proposal for inducting two Assistant Professors and two Associated
Professors strictly on seniority basis by rotation to the Senate may be

Page 3 of 7 ft ui inc *

SHR Lhe. heed


--- Page 4 ---
13" Pehruary 2011

forwarded to the Ministry of HRD for necessary approval of the Visitor/
amendment of the Statues of NIT Act 2007 regarding formation of Senate,

(ii) The Board approved the nomination Prof. A. K. Sarkar and Mr. P. N. Das,
Associate Professor as proposed by the Senate of the Institute, Further the
selection of faculty representatives to the Board by the Senate one from
Professor and one from Associate/ Assistant Professor in future, details
guidelines for essential Credentials of the faculties for consideration of being
recommended to the Board may be prepared and placed in Board for its
approval.

PART —~C

Item No.6: To consider the selection of representative (8) of the Board in
Finance Committed and Building & Works Committee.

The Board selected Prof. A. K. Sarkar, Professor of Civil Engineering as its
representative in the Building & Works Committee and Mr. P. N. Das, Associate
Professor in the Finance Committee.

Item No.7: To consider continuance of drawl of SDA allowed in North-East
during pursuance of M. Tech, Ph. D under QEP study of faculty
members of NIT Agartala outside North-Eastern region,

The Board approved the recommendation of the Finance Committee in this regard
against [tem No. 10/ 14" of the Finance Committee Meeting/ 2011, held on 12'" February

2011,

Item No.8: Incentives for Higher qualification (PhD degree) of all categories of
Teachers while in service.

The Board after discussion at length approved the decision of the 14" Finance
Committee meeting held on 12" February 201 lin this regard against Item No. 11 of the
14" Finance Committee Meeting held on February 12, 2011,

" Page 4 of 7
Woiethet ve ct age i “


--- Page 5 ---
13" Febrnary 201)

Item No. 9: To consider the UGC regulations af leave rules for permanent
teachers of NIT Agartala.

The Board considered the matter, It opined that the matter should be thoroughly
discussed among faculties and through consensus, the matter may be placed before the
~ next Board meeting for its consideration,

Item No. 10: To consider subsidized I GbpsNKN connectivity in the Institute.

 

The Board approved the recommendation of the 14" Finance Committee meeting
in this regard against Hem No. 12 of 14" Finance Committee meeting held on 12"

February 201 1.

Item No. 11: Te consider allowing of higher Academic Grade Pay (AGP) in
favour of Dr. Tarun Kumar Naiya who has been offered a post of
Asstt. Prof. in Chemical Engineering Dept. of NIT Agartala.

 

The Board approved the recommendation of the 14" Finance Committee meeting
in this regard against Item No. 13 of 14" Finance Committee meeting,

Item No. 12: To consider the Pay protection in respect of Dr. Ashoke Kr. Sarkar,
who has been recently appointed in the post of Professor, Civil
Engineering.

 

The Board approved the recommendation of the 14'" Finance Committee meeting
in this regard against Item No. 14 of 14" Finance Committee meeting held on 12"

February 201},

Item No. 13: To consider Carrier Advancement Scheme (CAS) for the faculty
members who have been working in the same post for the last 3/4
ears with requisite qualifications.

 

The Board discussed the issue thoroughly and opined that clarifications and
guidelines in this connection be obtained from the Ministry of HRD to maintain
uniformity of rules pertaining to career advancement and service matters in al] NITs.

aed
ha ae. -(
Maths Yire choy? : Page 5 of 7 “ £ ‘ Bye:


--- Page 6 ---
on

13!" February 2021

Item No. 14: Yo consider the general guidelines for the use of yearly contingency
grants for Ph. D and Post-Doctoral fellows at NIT Agartala.

The proposal was withdrawn and will be placed afler detailing the norms/
guidelines for contingency grant for scholars.

PART—D

Item No, 15: Stems approved by the Director or Chairman submitted for noting of the
Board.

 

The Board noted and approved the action taken by the Director/ Chairman with
the following observation:

Decision regarding selection of faculty representatives in the Board by the Senate
and induction of two Associate Professors and two Assistant Professors ig same as listed

in Item No. 5 of this meeting.

ADDITIONAL AGENDA

{On Table. Discussion}

Addl. Item No. 1:
Annual Report of the National Institute of Technology Agartala for the session 2009-

2010.

The Annual Report 2009-2010, prepared by the Institute and placed on the table
was approved for onward submission to Ministry of HRD for further necessary action.

However the Board remarked that the Annual Report as a whole needs further

' improvement,

It was suggested that excellence/ honour received by the Institute in various field
during the period may be highlighted in a separate page at beginning of the Report. In
this way some other innovative ideas may be incorporated.

Page 6 of 7

yakegk a Waar i '


--- Page 7 ---
13" February 2011

Addl, Item No, 2:
To note the actions of the Director for allowing Sitting Allowance to all the designated
member of Senate, Building & Works Committee, Finance Committee and Board of

Governors.

The committee approved the sanction of sitting allowance to Institute staff
members attending different Committee meetings under the Board such as Building &
Works Committee, Finance Committee, Senate etc as per Institute rate and change from
time to time under the provision Article 15 of the Statutes of NIT Act.

Addl, Item No. 3:
Yo consider the proposal for providing Redundant Internet Connectivity.

The Item was deferred. After preparation of details req uirement, specification, etc.
the Institute may go for re-advertisement for selection of the firm.

Add]. Item No. 4:
To consider Medical Reimbursement Draft Rules for NIT Agartala.

The Committee opined that such proposal must be placed with sufficient
justification and comparison of such schemes of the Institutes where il have been

introduced,

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chairs.

fy tM wel esac

She Vreven, ef
. (Prof. P, N. Singh)

(Dr. D, Bhattachary:

Secretary Chainnan
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar NIT Agartala

NIT Agartala

Page 7 of 7
