
--- Page 1 ---
Minutes’ 14" BOG/ NITA
6" April 2010

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799055

odak ab aka

 

Minutes of the fourteenth Meeting of the:
Board of Governors

held on 6™ April. 2010

At Conference Room of NITA Transit House, Kunjaban Qtr. Complex, Agartala, Tripura

sf obese nea ae af aac as ofc fake oe ake te ade ake oe ak oe aft a oe oe oe se fe oe oe oe fs feo fe fs cde oe ae che op oft a oh a aes be eo oe fe abe oe he obs oe ae cee ode fe ah at

The fourteenth meeting of the Board of Governors of the Institute was held on 6"
Apri] 2010 at 11:00 am in the Conference Room of NITA Transit House, Agartala,
Tripura.

The following members were present in the meeting.

« Prof. P. N. Singh Chairman, BOG of NIT Agartala.

Ac Prof. (Dr.) P. K. Bose Member, Director, NIT, Agartala.

“+ Mr. Tapash Roy Meinber, Representing Alumni.

** Prof. (Dr.) P. K. Bose Member, Director, NIT, Silchar.

“ Dr. B. Palit Representative of the Principal Secretary,

Departmetn of Higher Education, Govt. of Tripura.

> Dr, Prasun Chakraborti Member, Representing Faculty, NIT, Agartala.
Dr. Swapan Bhaumik Member, Representing Faculty, NIT, Agartala.
#” Dr. D. Bhattacharya. Secretary, Registrar, NIT, Agartala

Prof. R. A. Yadav, Prof. G. Barua, Dr. P. Jaganathan, Dr. K. Narayan Rao, Prof.
Alok K. Gupta, Shri S. K. Ray and Shri N. K. Sinha could not attend the meeting due to
their prior engagements and were granted leave of absence.

'

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman, BOG of NIT Agartala presided over the meeting.

The Chairman welcomed all the members present in the meeting and apprised

about the on-going constructional works.

TISESR he. Un hoofs z Page | of 6


--- Page 2 ---
Minutes/ 14" BOG/ NITA
6" April 2010

The Chairman invited all the members for discussion on agenda items circulated
earlier/ placed on table.

At the outset the Director, NIT Agartala welcomed all the members and requested
the Registrar (I/C) to initiate discussion on the Agenda as circulated earlier or placed on

table.

PART -A
Item No.1; Confirmation of the Minutes of Thirteenth Board af Governors meeting.

No comment has been received from any of the members. The Board confirmed
the minutes of the 13" meeting of the BOG held on 24" January 2010 at Conference Hall
of NITA Transit House, Kunjaban Qtr. Complex, Agartala, Tripura.

Item No.2: Aetion taken on the decision of the Thirteenth meeting of the Board of
Governors held on 24" January 2010.

The Board noted the action taken report with the following observations.

(i) Regarding setting up of a new Kendriya Vidyalaya at NIT Agartala, Tripura
[Resolution No./ Agenda Item No. 4/ 13" BOG/ 2010], the Board suggested that
Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan may be approached to take steps for starling the
functioning of the School from the current academic session 2010-2011 with the
available infrastructure in the campus.

(ii) Regarding granting of Child Care Leave to Women employees of the Institute

[Resolution No./ Agenda Item No. 7/ 13" BOG/ 2010], the Board suggested to
annex the words considering the merit case to case basis as was approved by the

Board.

PART -B

Item No.3: To consider the report on the Second Convocation Ceremony of NIT
Agartala held on 6" day of February 2010.

The Board congratulated and appreciated the effort taken by the faculty and

student to make the convocation a grand success.

arsesholbechave(~ ‘ Page 2 of 6


--- Page 3 ---
=

Minutes! 14" BOG/ NITA
6" April 2010

Item No. 4: Yo consider flexible cadre structure for Teaching post of NIT Agartala.

The Board approved the proposal in principle subject to the approval of Ministry
of HRD, Govi. of India. In this connection Ministry of HRD maybe requested to intimate
the details guidelines and modalities regarding reservation policy, in casc Ministry of
HRD approves the flexible cadre structure. In the mean time CAS will be continued as
per Govt. order No. F. 23-1/2008-TS.I], dated 18" August 2009.

Item No.5: To consider restructuring of Non-Teaching posts in NIT Agartala
following the Student, Teacher and Non-Teaching staff ratio of
M201.

The Board approved the Non-Teaching staff structure as proposed by Ministry of
HRD vide No. F. 23-18/2008-TS-Il, dated, New Delhi the 17" March 2010, The
Institute may prepare the details of Non-teaching staff stracture & place it to the next
Board meeting for approval and onward transmission for concurrence of the Ministry of

HARD.

Item No.6: Yo consider the recommendation of the Selection Committee meeting
held during 9" to 11 March 2010 at Kotkata for recruitment of

Teaching staff for NIT Agartala.

At the out set, the two faculty representative viz. Dr. Swapan Bhaumik and Dr. P,
Chakraborti, who are also candidates for the posts of Professor in Mechanical
Engineering were requested by the Chairman to abstain from the meeting during the
discussion of the Item No. 6. After their, exit the sealed envelopes containing the
recommendations of the Selection Committees were opened and signed by the Registrar,
Director and Chairman.

Before discussion on the recommendations, the members perused the vacancy
position department wise and category wise for 100 nos. of sanctioned posts. The Board
observed that at present 8 nos. of more posts are being occupied by the ST candidates
than the required number as per reservation policy before the Institute was converted to
NIT. The Board approved the panels according to merit and category wise (UR/ SC/
OBC) recommended by ‘the Selection Committees for different Departments and
empowered the Director to issue appointment letters from the panel according to merit
and vacancy of posts branch wise and category wise. At the first phase, appointments to
the following candidates against vacancy out of 100 sanctioned posts may be issued.
After sanction of 2] additional posts as per actual student strength which are pending for
approval of the Ministry of HRD, Govt. of India, appointment letters for additional posts

—furing®

SSSBhe tbe chong por Page 3 of 6


--- Page 4 ---
Minutes! 14" BOG/ NITA
6" April 2010

may be issued to the candidates from the panel maintaining the merit (among. the

remaining), and vacancy of posts branch wise and category wise to prepared by the
Institute, ;

(i) Assistant Professor: (a) Mrs Tara Sen (UR).
(b) Ms Bishakha Chakraborty (UR).
(c) Mr Pritam Saha (SC).

(ii) Professor : (a) Dr. Ashok Kr. Sinha.

(B) Electrical Engineering Department:
(i) Assistant Professor: (a) Dr, Subhadeep Bhattacharya (UR).

(ii) Associate Professor : (a) Dr. Ajoy Kr. Chakraborty.

() Assistant Professor: (a) Mr Rabindra Nath Barman (SC).
(b) Ms Seena P, (OBC).

Gi) Associate Professor : (a) Dr. Ram Naresh Rai,

(D) Humanities and Social Science Department:
(i) Assistant Professor: (a) Ms (Dr) Gyanabati Khuraijam (OBC)

 

Gi) Professor : (a) Dr. Ajit Kumar Ray.

(EZ) Mechanical Engineering Department;
(1) Assistant Professor: (a) Mr. Rahul Banerjec (UR),

- (b) Mr Arindam Majumder (OBC),
(ii) | Associate Professor : (a) Dr. Rajshekhar Panua.

(F) Electronics & Communication Engineering Department:
(i) Assistant Professor: (a) Dr. Dibbyendu Ghosal (UR).
(b) Dr. Shambhunath Pradhan (UR).
(c) Dr. Anirudha Mondal (OBC),
(d) Shri Kamalesh Debnath (OBC),

(G) Chemistry Department:
Gi) Assistant Professor: (a) Dr (Mrs) Mitali Saha (UR).
(b) Dr. Keishan Surjit Singh (OBC).

(H) Physics Department:
(i) Assistant Professor: (a) Dr. Jitendra Nath Roy (UR).

(b) Dr, Subrata Barik (OBC).

stats be teechon py Page 4 of 6 Pring


--- Page 5 ---
Minutes! 14" BOG/ NITA
6" April 2010

The Board further approved to’ appoint one faculty member for Chemica)
Engineering Department and one for Electronics & Instrumentation Ingineering
Department in the posts of Assistant Professor, as these Departments started functioning,
from the academic year 2009-10 for setting up laboratories and teaching works related to
the respective Departments. In this respect it was decided that one Assistant Professor
selected for Electronics & Communication Engineering Department will be assigned by
the Director for Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering Department and for Chemical
Engineering Department the following candidates from the panel recommended by the
Selection Committee has been selected for appointment.

> Chemical Engineering Department:
(i) Assistant Professor: (a) Ms Soma Nag (Nandi) (UR).

Item No.7: Te consider the empanelment and some prominent pathological
laboratories for NIT Agartala.

The Board deferred the item for the next meet ing and requested the authority to
place the item with comparative statement.

em No. 8: To consider the minutes of the Eleventh Finance Committee meeting of
NIT Agartala.

The Board noted and approved the minutes of the Eleventh Finance Committee
meeting of NIT Agartala held on 5" April 2008.

Item No.9: To consider the minutes of the Sixteenth Building & Works Committee
meeting of NIT Agartala,

The Board noted the minutes of the Sixteenth Builidng & Works Committee
meeting of NIT Agartala, held on 31 March 2010.

Item No. 10: Items approved by the Director submitted for noting of the Board.

The Board noted and ratified the actions taken by the Director/ Chairman.

SS he trechor pn Page 5 of 6 purge


--- Page 6 ---
 

Minutes! 14" BOGS NITA
6" April 2010

ADDITIONAL AGENDA
{On Table Discussion)
Addl. Item No. 1: To consider the Vision and Mission statement of NIT Agartala.

The Board after discussion approved the Vision statement of the Institute placed
on the table. Regarding Mission statement the Board su peested that it should be modified
and elaborates each word of the Vision statement and may be placed before the next
Board for ratification. However, the present form of Mission may be displayed in the
department/ corridor and other important places for NBA visit.

Addl. Item No. ?: Yo consider the proposal for setting up of an Information
Communication Training (ICT) centre at NIT Agartala in
collaboration with C-DAC, Pune.

The Board after discussion at length approved the proposal of setting up of an ICT
centre al NIT Agartala in collaboration with C-DAC, Pune and also requested to the
Director to provide the Building Infrastructure including Class rooms, laboratories rooms
with basic amenities, desk, chairs and power supply with the total capacities of 6150 sqft
and also empowered the Institute to sing the MOU.

Addi. Item No. 2: (@) To consider the proposal mooted by the Chairman in
connection with the inhouse training of the NIT students and
also for the external students if possible for (a) driving simulator,
(6) low cost bamboo housing.

(ii) To consider the proposal in connection with Jawhar Lat
Nehru National Solar mission towards building solar India.

Gi) The Board approved the above proposal and the necessary expenditure at the tune
of Rs. 40.00 lacs is also sanctioned for the same.

(ii) The Board approved the proposal to create R & D Centre with the necessary
infrastruciure and also permitted the Institute to approach the concerned authority

for getting fund.

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chairs.

Eh atehe OL a
(Dr. D, Bhattacharya (Prof. P. N. Singh)
Secretary ‘ Chairman
Board of Governors : Board of Govemors
& Registrar NIT Agartala

NIT Agartala

Page 6 of 6
