
--- Page 1 ---
 

Minutes: 8° Speciale isa
SITAS Deeember [0 Sanna

NATIONAL INSTEPULE OF TECHNOLOGY AGAIPALS
WEST PRIPUIEA, PUN: 7090 16

fe ae a Se ade ale ape afe

Minutes of the 28'" (Special) Meeting of the
Board of Governors

held on Decentber 10, 2013

At Conference Room of NIT Agartala

The 28"" (Special) meeting of the Board of Gavernors of the Instilute was held on
December 10, 2013 (Tuesday) at 10:00 am in the Conference Room of NIT
Agartala.

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman of the Board of Governors (BOG), NIT Agartala,
presided over the meeting.

The following members were present in the meeting :

(1)
(2)
(3)

(4)

(5)
(6)
(7)

(8)
(9)

(10)

Prof, PLN. Singh
Prof. S.C. Saha
Shri kK. Ambuly

Shri Rajesh Singh

Prof. Nitindra Nath Som
Prof. Sekhar Datta

Shri Satpal Sharma

Dr. R, P. Sharma

Shri. John Debbarma

Shri Sumanta ‘Chakrabarti

Chairman, BOG of NIT Agartala.

Member, Director (i/c) of NIT, Agartala
Member, Secretary to the Govt. of Tripura,
Dept. of Higher Education.

Director (NITs}, MHRD, Govt. of India
(Representative of Joint Secretary
(Technica! Education), Dept. of Higher
Ecucation, MHRD).

Member, Former Professor of Jadavpur
University,

Member, Principal, Tripura Institute of
Technology.

Under Secretary, IFD, MHRD, Govt. of
India, (Represenlalive of Financial Advisor,
Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD).
Member, Professor, Civil Engineering Dept.
NIT Agartala. ;
Member, Assistant Professor, Mechanical
Engineering Dept., NIT Agartala.

Secrelary, Registrar {i/c), NIT, Agartala

Prof. A. Srinivasan, Dean of Faculty Affairs, IT, Guwahati and Prof, (Mrs) Uma
Bhattacharya, Department of Computer Science and Technology, BESU, Shibpur
could not altend lhe meeting,

Yo
ea

Hiding, a

Pave | of 7


--- Page 2 ---
Minutes! 28" Special: BOG
SITA (December (1, 40 13

The Chairman, Board of Governors of NIT Agartala and the Director (i/c), NIT
Agartala, welcomed the Members of the BOG in the 28" (Special) meeting of
Board of Governors.

The BoG observed one minule silence in the memory of Lale Rahul Kumal, a
student of BE 3" Semester, Electronics & Communication Engineering Dept. It
was resolved thal a Condolence Message on behalf of the Board of the
Governors, NITA, will be sent by Prof. S.C. Saha, Director (i/c), NITA, to the family
of Late Rahul Kumar.

The Chairman, Board of Governors then invited the Director (i/c), NIT Agartala and
ihe Registrar (i/c) to initiate discussion on agenda items.

ftem No.28.1; Students unrest at NIT Agartala and subsequent
development.

At the outset.the Board took the stalk of the incidents from the Director (ifc}. NIT
Agartala, that took place on 04, 65 & 06 December. 2013 al AGMC & GBP
Hospital premises at Agartala and in the Institute campus because of the sad
demise of Late Rahul Kumar. Shri Kishore Ambuly, Secretary to the Government
of Tripura, Department of Higher Education, placed a report on the grievances
submitted by the students of NIT Agartala to the Government of Tripura through
the District Magistrate & Collector, West Tripura District,

The BoG, appreciated and thanked the State Government and particularly the
District Administration and the Police for giving all-round support and help to NIT
Agartala during the ircideril and to bring back the normnaley in the Institute,

After thread bare discussion, the following decisions were taken :

(1) While appreciating the personal and family commitment due to medica!
reasons of Prof. Gopal Mugeraya, Director, NIT Agartala, the BoG felt that in such
a Silualion the physical presence of the Director in the institute is necessary ancl
requested him to join the Institute al {he earliest.

(2) The BoG appreciated the steps and initiatives taken up by the Director {i/c).
Registrar (i/c), Deans, faculty members and staff and thanked them for the action
already taken by them. BoG authorized the Director to take appropriate actian to
bring back the normalcy in the Institute.

(3) While appreciating the anguish of the students, the BoG strongly expressed its
displeasure to the unruly behaviour of a section of students. The BoG requeslect
both faculties and students to rise up to the occasion to face the challenges for a
growing institute.

Ve
v9

Page 2 ot?


--- Page 3 ---
 

Minties 28° Speciale iGes
SVP AS Qeewmber 1, 2003

(4) BoG resolved to constitute 2 (Two) Committees to look after the demands of
the students and over all development of the Instilule, namely - (1) Administrative
Reforms & Campus Development Committee: and (2) Academic Development
Committee.

(A) Administrative Reforms & Campus Development Committee :

This Committee is consliluted under the Chairmanship of Shri Kishore Ambuly,
Secretary to the Government of Tripura, Higher Education Dept. & Member, BoG,
and the Registrar {i/c), NITA will act as Convener of the Committee, The other
Members of the Committee will be co-opled in consullation with Prof, S.C, Saha,
Director (i/c),

The Terms of reference of the Committee :

(i) Decentralization of power among the Director, Deans and Hols;

(ii) Transparency in the system,

(iii) Simplified Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Facully/Non-facully and
students benefil as a charter:

(iv) Periodical health check-up/screening and maintaining of health data base of
all students:

(v) Full-fledged health care facilities for students, faculties and staff,

(viJOverview the planning, integrated development and landscape of the
campus including medical facilities;

(vii)Any other issue;

(B) Academic Development Committee :

This Committee is constituted under the Chairmanship of Prof. Nitindra Nath Som
Former Professor of Jadavpur University & Member, BoG, and the Dean
(Academic), NITA will acl as the Convener of ihe Committee. Other members of
the Committee may be co-opted by the Director (i/c) in consultation with Prof,
Nitindra Nath Som.and the terms of reference of the Committee will be finalised by
Prof. Som in consultation with Prof. $.C. Saha, Director (i/c), NIT Agartala.

(5) The BoG resolved that the grievances expressed by the students to the
Government of Tripura and the District Magistrate & Collector, West Tripura Dist.
would be addressed and necessary steps would be taken to solve the problems as
early as possible. The BoG expressed serious concern on the grievances raised
by the students and suggested on the following :

a) Behaviours of the staff of Controller of Examination and Academic
Seclion need review;

b) The process tor giving stipend neecs to be simplified, the officials
working in the Section should deal with the students with polite manner
and more staff to be engaged;

c) The frequency of buses presently operated by Tripura Urban
Development Transport Company Ltd. should be increased and the

\ at Page 3 of 7 Friel

oy
WA


--- Page 4 ---
 

Minutes: 28" (Specialy BOC
NPA? Decumber 10, 2004

Secretary to the Govt, of Tripura. Higher Education & Transport
Departments be requested to take necessary Measures,

d) Dean (SW), Chief Warden, Wardens and Asst, Wardens are lo visit all
the hostels regularly. Wardens and Asst. Wardens of the respective
hostels are to spend in the hostel at least 2-3 hours daily and give
patient hearing to the problems of the students and necessary action
should be taken up to solve the problems immediately. Strict vigilance
and monitoring should be enforced by the Wardens, Asst, Wardens anc
Supervisors to maintain the quality of food in the mess and lo see that
vegelarian and non-vegelarian food is nol mixed lo each other.

e) Adequate sports equipment are to be supplied to the students, Foot-ball
and Sports facilities are to be constructed.

f) Iron-removal plant in each hostel is to be installed for distribution of

water.

(6) Necessary steps should be taken up for involving students actively in Mess
and hostel management.

(7) One of the honorable members of the BoG informed that the State Government
is having specific information that some faculty members and a few students
provoked and instigated the students towards unruly behaviours. Such of the
facully members and students involved need to be identified and immediate action
must be taken against (hem. The BoG asked the Director to constitute an Inquiry
Committee to identify the faculty members who provoked and instigated the
sludents. The Inquiry Committee should submit the report at the earliest to the
Authority of NIT Agartala. The findings of the Inquiry Committee be placed in the
next BoG meeting for needful action.

(8) BoG resolved to form a Fact Finding Committee on the incident of December
04, 2013 causing the sad demise of -Late Rahul Kumar under the Chairmanship of
Prof. Sekhar Dutta, Principal, Tripura Institute of Technology & Member, Board cf
Governors, NITA, and Shri John Debbarma, Asst. Professor, NIT Agarlala &
Member, BoG, as Convener of the Committee. Other members of the Committee
and some student representatives may be co-opled by the Chairman and the
Convener. The terms of reference of this Committee ~-

i) Delayed response in terms of providing ambulance,

ii} Reported negligence in cuties my Medica! Officer and other staff
who were on duty in the Medical Unit.

iii) Reasons for agitation, instigation and provocation, antl

iv) To suggest remedial measures.

v) Any other issue.

(9) The BoG resulved to decentralize of powers among lhe Director, Deans and
Hobs. in this regard {he Velegation of Financial Rules from other Insliluies may be
obtained for preparing the Delegation of Financial Rules of NITA. However, lhe
BoG resolved to delegate power of spending amount up to Rs,50,000.00/-

\ ails, Page 4 of7 rns
Oy


--- Page 5 ---
 

Minutes: 28" (Specialy [CIC
NFPA YS December 10, 2003

(Rupees fifty lakhs) only fo the Director for different works subject lo the budget
provision and following the normal procedure and Government of hidia norms,

(10) The BoG resolved that NITA should strive for filling up facully and non-faculty
positions maintaining 200 point reservation roster. The RRs approved by the NIT
Council for the non-faculty positions is approved by the BoG. However, till the
recruitment of all non-teaching staff, qualified personnel on contracl basis may be
engaged to fulfill the present requirement of NITA,

(11) Due to sad demise of Rahul Kumar, a 2™ year student of ECE Department
who was residing in Gomati Hostel. a total student unrest took place at NIT
Agartala campus from 4" December onwards, studenls gheraced the
administration and demanded immediate renovation of all three old hostels.
District Administration also intervened in this regard and advised to accept one of
the demands to renovate the Gomati, Dhalai and Howrah Hostels on war-fooling
basis within a month's time. The decision of renovation of all three old hostels was
faken in presence of the District Magistrate & Collector, West Tripura District,
Superintendent of Police, West Tripura and other State Government officials to
control the agitation of the students. The Board resolves to approve alll initiatives
taken by the Director (i/c) to bring the situation under control.

The BoG considering the prevailing situation due to students’ unrest, approved the
proposal for immediate renovation of Gomati Hoste! on war-focting basis by M/S
NCCL who has been working in NITA as an exceptional and emergent case al a
cost of Rs.49,.45,$85/- as recommended by the 30” BWC meeting held on

09.12.2013.

The repairina/renovation of other two old hostels namely, Dhalai and Howrah wilt
be given to the Rural Development Department, Government of Tripura, as a
deposit work, The Secretary to the Govt. of Tripura, Department of Higher
Education, agreed to co-ordinate the matter so that the RD Department would take
up the works on priority basis and compiete the same at the earliest.

(72) The BoG resolved that Medical Unit of NITA should be strengthened and
required Medica! Officers and para-medical staff to be engaged and adequale
infrastructural facilities should be given immediately to make it functional in a
proper way.

(13). The Board resolved to create a post of Dean (Grievance Redressal &
Counsellor). The Dean (Grievance Redressal & Counsellor) will address the
issues of all grievances of the students. faculties, staff and report to the
appropriate authority for taking up necessary action.

(14) The BoG resolved that to bring transparency in the system, Agenda Notes
and Minutes of BoG, Finance Committee. Building & Works Committee, Senate,

Ps

ey Page 5 of? 4 thong
P\%%


--- Page 6 ---
 

Minutes: 28" (Special) HOG
NITA/ December 10, 2014

Notifications, Office Orders, Purchase Orders, Werk Orders, ete. will be uploaded
in the NITA Website,

(15) It was brought lo the notice of he Board by a few honorable members that
many courses have been started wilhoul having created the additional
infrastructures to meéel ihe need. Hence, there is a need to review lhe inlake ancl.
suspension of admission to some of the courses for the time being until
infrastructure is created. The Board noted the views expressed by the members
and decided thal the matters need the consideration of Senate, this be discussed
and decision be taken by the Senate before bringing the maller before the Board.

(16). The BoG resolved that the temporary shops presently operating in the
campus should be shifted in the market complex already constructed at an early
date. The Secretary, Higher Education Dept., Government of Tripura, has been
requested to take necessary steps lo expedite the matter of shifting of the shops
to the market complex and the matter related to construction of another floor in the
markel complex by the RD Department, Government of Tripura as a deposit work
on turnkey basis.

(17) The BoG resolved that for landscaping work in the campus, Department of
Horticulture, Government of Tripura may be approached and the Secrelary,
Government of Tripura, Higher Education Dept. may take up ihe matter with lhe
Government of Tripura.

ADDITIONAL AGENDA
(On table discussion)

Addi. {tem No.28,7: Representation submitted by Dr. Sudhan Debnatt
in connection with the direction passed by the
Hon'ble High Court of Tripura by Order dated
October 09, 2013 in WP (C) 526 of 2012.

The Board of Governors, NIT Agartala, carefully perused the Order passed by the
Hon'bie High Court of Tripura dated October 09, 2013 in WP( C)} 526 of 2012 and
views of the Department of Chemistry, NIT Agartala.

At present 2 Associate Professors and 2 Assistant Professors are working in the
Department of Chemistry out of which three(3) are having Specialization in
Organic Chemistry and one(1) in In-organic Chemistry. There is no facuily
member presently in the Department of Chemistry from the Physical Chemistry
specialization. The department presently require faculty members from the
Specialization in Physical Chemistry ana fnorganic Chemistry. It was also
suggested by the HoD, Chemistry Department that while recruiting faculties, the
specialization in Physical Chemistry and Inorganic Chemistry may be given

o
\iahy Paze 6 of 7 ~pianng ss
\

\


--- Page 7 ---
  
 
 

Minutes: 28° (Specialy OG
NITA? December 10, 2003

preference to meet the requirement of faculties in the Department and also run the
classes of M.Sc. in the event of opening of M.Sce. courses in the Deparment ol
Chemistry.

At present only one post of Associate Professor is lying vacant in the Departmer|
of Chemistry and there is no chance of gelling more post in the Deparlment in
near fulure. So, appointment of Dr. Sudhan Debnath having the Specialization in
Organic Chemistry cannot be considered and the process for recruitment ol
faculties having Specialization in Physical Chemistry and Inorganic Chemistry
should be initiated immediately considering the academic interest of ihe students
of NIT Agartala.

On perusal of the Order dated 09-10-2012 of the Hon'ble High Court of Tripures,
the representation submitted by Dr. Sudhan Debnath and algo the Note submilled
by HoD, Chemistry Department, it has been decided by the Board of Governors
that one post of Associate Professor which is lying vacant wil be fillect up by the
person having Specialization in Physical Chemistry/Inarganic Chemistry and
accordingly, representation submitted by Dr. Sudhan Debnath to appoint him as
Associate Professor is rejected.

Addi. Item No, 28.2: To consider the Audit Report on the accounts of
the Institute for the year 2012-13.

The 8OG perused and noted the Audit Report on the accounts of the Institute for
the year 2012-13 submilted by the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, Office
of the Accountant General (Audit), Tripura.

The meeting ended with vote of thanks to the Chair.

\ ’ —frwuf et 3
Lect tape!
(Sumanta Chakrabarti) (Prof. P. N. Singh)

Secretary, Board of Governors Chairman, Board of Governors
& Registrar (i/c), NIT Agartala NIT Agartala

Page 7 of 7
