
--- Page 1 ---
 

Minutes! 15" BOG/ NITA
30" June 2010

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799055

see ga tok a:

 

Minutes of the fitieenth Meeting of the
Board of Governors

held on 30" June 2010

Al Conference Room of NITA Transit House, Kunjaban Qtr. Complex, Agartala, Tripura

SHR Reo eH ose fof He ake ae Se af afc ake ae ee at oa ae a ae 3c he oo a be a fe eae oe te ok eat ota co a ec aoe eae oe oe eae ap of a a a

The fifteenth meeting of the Board of Governors of the Institute was held on 30"
June 2010 at 2:00 pm in the Conference Room of NITA Transit House, Agartala, Tripura,

The following members were present in the meeting.

% Prof. P.N. Singh Chairman, BOG of NIT Agartala.

“ Prof. (Dr) P. K. Bose Member, Director of NIT Agartala and Director
(1/C) of NIT Silchar.

« Mr. Kk. Ambuly Representative of the Principal Secretary,
Department of Higher Education, Govt. of Tripura.

“ Mr. Tapash Roy Member, Representing Alumni.

“* Dr. Prasun Chakraborti ‘Member, Representing Faculty, NIT, Agartala.

“ Dr, Swapan Bhaumik . Member, Representing Faculty, NIT, Agartala.

* Dr, 1D, Bhattacharya Member Secretary, Registrar, NIT, Agartala

Prof. R. A. Yadav, Prof. G. Barua, Dr. P. Jaganathan, Dr, K. Narayan Rao, Prof.
Alok K. Gupta, Shri S. K. Ray and Shri N. K. Sinha could not attend the meeting due to
their prior engagements and were granted leave of absence.

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman, BOG of NIT Agartala presided over the meeting.
The Chairman welcomed all the members present in the meeting and apprised

about the on-going constructional works.

The Chairman invited all the members for discussion on agenda items circulated
earlier/ placed on table.

Punws

mbar heey Puy Page ) of 5


--- Page 2 ---
Minutes! 15 BOG/ NITA
30" June 2010

At the outset the Chairman enquired about any input on agenda items received
from the MHRD, The Chairman was informed that no such inpuis have been received
from MHRD. The Chairman requested the Secretary of the Board to initiate discussions
. onthe Agenda items as circulated earlier or placed on table,

PART —A
ftem No.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of Fourteenth Board of Governors

meeting.

The minutes of the 14" meeting was confirmed with following observation,

In Item No. 6 (A) the name Dr. Ashok Kumar Sinha be read as Dr. Ashok Kumar
Sarkar.

In respect of Item No. 10, the qualifications and experience prescribed from time
to time by thé Ministry of HRD for faculty recruitment in various ‘cadres are to be
followed.

Item No.2: Action taken en the decision of the Fourteenth meeting of the Board of
Governors held on 6" April 2010.

The Board noted the action taken report placed.

PART—B
Item No.3: Yo consider the Annual Budget of NIT Agartala for the year 2010-11.

The Board resolved to approve the recommendation of the meeting of the Finance
Committee held on 30" June 2010, at 11:00 am in NIT Transit House, Agartala under the

Item No. 3 of agenda of the Finance Committee.

Item No.4: Te consider'the report of Internal Audit in respect of Audit & Accounts
for the year 2009-10.

The Board approved the recommendation of the Finance Committee held on 30"
June 2010 at 11:00 am in NIT Transit House, Agartala on this issue and also the remedial

measures as suggested by the Finance Committee.

ageshet oy : Page 2 of 5


--- Page 3 ---
Minules/ 15" BOG/ NITA
30" June 2010

  
 

Jtem No.5: To consider status of recruitment in the post of Assistant Professor,
Associate Professor and Professor at NUT Agartala.

The Board noted the status of recruitment of faculty and asked the Director for
amanging recruitment drive against the vacant posts of Assistant Professor, Associate
Professor and Professor through advertisement.

In this connection the Board suggested that as per the present student stren eth for
the academic session 2010-2011, which is 2632, proposa] may be sent from the Institule
to MHRD for sanctioning enhanced actual faculty strength, which works out 219 based
on the student faculty ration 12:1, Presently the sanctioned faculty strength is only }20.

Item No. 6: To consider the Non-Teaching staff structure for NI T Agartala.

The Board noted the Non-teaching staff structure, submitted to the Ministry of
HRD for approval and subsequent follow up action.

Item No.7: To consider the status of the ongoing preparation for starting of class of
Kendriya Vidyalaya at NIT Agartala campus w.ef, July 2010.

The Board expressed its satisfaction over the on going preparation for starting
classes of Kendriya Vidyalaya at NIT Agartala campus w.e.f. July 2010,

ltem No. 8: To consider introduction of some fees jor the students studying in
various semesters of engineering courses.

The committee approved the proposed introduction of fees for development of
personality and communication skill to improve employability of students and suggested
that some steps be taken for supporting the BPL students in respect of reimbursing such

fees.

Item No.9: Yo consider Admission of students under DASA Scheme in NIT
Agartala from academic session 2010-11.

The Board noted the proposal of admission of students under DASA (Admission
of students from Abroad) and suggested that separate blocks of Hostel may be earmarked

for the accommodation of Intemational students,
us mange

Sag Page 3 of 5


--- Page 4 ---
 

Minutes! 15" BOG/NITA
30" Jume 2010

utes of the Twelfth Finance Comunittee meeting of

NIT Agartala.

The Board resolved to approve the recommendations as su gested in the minutes
of the 12" Finance Committee meeting held on 30" June 2010.

liem No. li: Yo consider the minutes of the Seventeenth Building & Works
Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.

The Board approved the recommendations as suggested in the minutes of the 15"
Building and Works Committee meeting held on 28" June 2010.

Item No. 12: To consider the reduction of Bond period of existing 5 pears to 3 years in
respect of faculty members sponsored under QIP/ Study leave.

The Board approved the proposal of reduction of Bond period for carrying out
ME/ M. Tech programme under QIP/ Study Leave sponsored by the Institute, from
existing 5 years to 3 years. But for carrying out Ph. D, programmes under the above
mentioned schemes existing 5 (five) years of Bond period will continue.

Item No. 13: Ye consider augmentation of Library with Radio Frequeneyp
Identification (RFID) spstem.

The Board resolved to approve the decision of the Finance Committee held on
30" June 2010 in this regard.

PART-C

Item No. 14: Items approved by the Director or Chairman submitted for noting of
the Board.

The Board ratified the actions taken by the Chairman, BOG and Director of the

Institute.
beh BNoecrbomne = Page 4 of 5


--- Page 5 ---
Minutes! 15" BOG/NITA
30" June 2010

ADDITIONAL AGENDA
On Table Discussion)

Addl. item No.1: Yo consider the appointment of faculties from the approved
panel,

The Board approved the proposal of offering appointment to the following
candidaies from the approved panel of selected candidates as per decision of 14" meeting

of BOG held on 6" April 2010.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Si. Name Category | Name of the post Department :
|_No. wa cess spite ere tt ores
I | Nirmalya Kar OBC Asstt. Prof. Computer Se. &
Engineering
L. _ af [Department _
2. Prasenjit Debnath OBC Assit. Prof. Electrical Engineering
xl _—-._..| Department.
3. Mrinalint Das OBC Asstt. Prof, Electrical Engineering
|__| pinthepsiareieca pecs _| Department
4. Jayanta Kumar OBC Asstt. Prof. Ilectrical and
Rakhshit Instrumentation
Engineering
——— a Department,
3. Shyamal Debnath OBC Asstt. Prof, Mathematics
s Department
6. Tarun Kumar Naiya sc Asstt. Prof. Chemical Engineering
- _ Department
7. Ranjan Das sc Asstt, Prof. Mechanical
Engineering
= __.___ | Department
8. Dr, Rakesh Kumar OBC Asstt. Prof. Physics Department
Yadav _
| 9. Dr. Uttam Kumar Bera | UR Associate | Mathematics
ft. Professor Department

 

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chairs.

cise heath howe] cn,
(Dr. D. Bhattachan\a) (Prof. BP. N. Singh)
Secretary Chairman
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar NIT Agartala

WNIT Agartala

Page 5 of 5
