
--- Page 1 ---
Mines? 21 BOG! NITA
‘Q” February 2018

WEST CPIEP ERA, PIN: 799055

ae ap ae healt ab le ae

 

Minutes of the 21" Meeting of the
Board of Governors
held on 9 February 2012

At Conference Room of NIT Transit House

The 21" meeting of the Board of Governors of the Institute was held on 9" J'ebruary
9012 at 11:45 am in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House, Kunjaban, Agartala.

The following members were present in the meeting.

(1) Prof. P, N. Singh Chairman, BOG of NIT Agartala.

(2) Prof. P. i. Bose : Member, Director of NI'T, Agartala,

(3) Prof. Nitindra Nath Som Member, Former Professor of Jadavpur
University.

(4) Dr. Sekhar Datta a 4 Member, Professor of Tripura Institute of
Technology.

(5) Shri Tridib Chakraborty : Member, Principal, Women’s
Polytechnic.

(6) Shri P. N. Das : Member, Representing Faculty, NIT,
Agartala.

(7) Dr. N. ic, Kole : Secretary, Registrar. NIT, Agartala

Representatives from the Ministry of HIRD, Govt. of India and Dr. Bindu Dey could not
attend the meeting.

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman of the Board of Governors (BOG) welcomed al] the
members. He briefed the members of BOG regarding 4" Convocation to be held on 10"
February, 2012 and appreciated the efforts made by faculty members for organizing the
Convocation in a short notice. The Chairman then requested the Director and Registrar to

initiate the discussion on agenda items.

Prof. P. K. Bose, while welcoming the members, informed the BOG that the main
Agenda of 21° meeting was to consider holding of Convocation and conferment of
Honoris Causa — Doctor of Science to Padma Bhushan Prof. U. R. Rao, former
Chairman, Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO), in addition to other items. The
Director mentioned that Sri Kapil Sibal, Hon’ble Minister of Human Resource
Development and Communication & Information Technology, Govt. of India will be the
Chief Guest in the Convocation. He also pointed out that Sri Badal Chowdhury, the

Co Awish-

Page ] of 3


--- Page 2 ---
Minutes? 21" BOs NITA
9" Pobruary 201

Minister of Finance & Revene, Govt. of Tripura and Prof. UL R. Rao will be the Special
Guest of Honor and Guest of Honor respectively.

Dr. N. K. Kole, Registrar then presented the Agenda Jtems for discussian and decision by
the Board.

Item No. 21.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of Twentieth Board of Governors
Meeting.

The minutes of the twentieth Board of Governors meeting of NIT Agartala, held on 7"
January, 2012 were confirmed.

Item No. 21.2: To consider the recommendations of the 10" SENATE Meeting held
on 9" February 2012 at 10:30 am in the Conference Room of NIT

Transit House.

The BOG noted that the 10'" Senate meeting, was held at 10:30 am just before holding the
21* BOG meeting on the same day due to extreme urgency. The Board also noted that
there were six agenda items and the minutes of 10" Senate mecting were placed on the

table.

While accepting the recommendations of 10" Senate meeting, the Board decided to
include the following information for record.

1) The BOG approved awarding of Ph. D. degree in Engineering to Smt. Sima
Ghosh, a Ph. D. Scholar in Civil Engineering Department of NIT, Agartala for
Ph. D. topic — “Seismic Response and Stability of Retaining Wall
Supporting @ and c- @ Backfill” under the supervision of Dr. R. P.
Sharma, Professor of Civil Engineering and Dean (Academic Affairs), NIT
Agartala.

il) BOG approved starting of MBA programme in NIT, Agartala from the
academic session 2012-13 with an intake capacity of 30, subject to the
condition that the syllabus is finalized with the help of experts before starting
the programme.

iii) Regarding MoU to be signed between NIT, Manipur and NIT, Agartala for
collaborative Ph. D programme to benefit the faculty members of NIT
Manipur, the BOG approved the proposal for signing the same in line with the
relevant provision of existing MoU signed between HT Guwahati and NIT
Agartala with the modification that NIT Agartala will award Ph. D degrees to
the faculty members of NIT Manipur, without compromising with the
requirements for the award of Ph. D degree.

pe etunjasgh ~

Page 2 of 3

wo ge ret


--- Page 3 ---
m,

Minutes! 21" BOGS NITA
O" Kebrnary 2019.

Hem No. 21.3: Aay other item with permission of the Chair,

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) The BOG ratified the decision of its Chairman regarding inchision of the
following experts in the panel for selection (interview C ommiitee) af faculty
members.

(i) Prof. Satish Chandra Bera (Hlectronics & Instrumentation), Department of
Applied Physics, Caleuta University, Kolkata.

(i) Prof. Somnath Ghosh (Civil Engineering), Mx - Professor and Head,
Department of Civil Engineering, Jadavpur Universily, Kolkata,

The Beard also ratified the decision of ils Chairperson to nominate Prof,

Nitindra Nath Som as BOG expert member for selection (interview committee)

for selection of faculty members at NIT Agartala,

(b) The BOG noted that the interview for selection of Associate Professors at NIT
Agartala was held on 4" February 2012 at JIT Extension Centre, Sali Lake City,
Kolkata. The recommendations made by the Commitices (Interview
Commitlees) were placed before the Board after opening the sealed envelopes
during the mecting. As per recommendations of selection (Interview)
Committees the Board approved the appointments of following candidates with
protection of present pay (as applicable in accordance with pay Jixation rules),
Sh | Department Designation Name of the candidate

No} a
1. | Mechanical Engineering | Associate Dr. G. Ravi Kiran Sas ry.
i crn | Professor | a
2. | Electronics & Associate Dr. Dibyendu Ghoshal,
Communication Professor
Engineering . oo .
3. | Physics Associate
pees) Professor oS ee
4. | Chemistry Associate “@ Dr. ‘Tarun Kr. Mishra, _
Professor | Gi) Dr. Sudhan Debnath.
| 5. | Mathematics Associate _ Dr. Paritosh Bhattacharya.

 

 

 

The meeting aided 1 with the vote of thanks to the Chair.

Ii [o>f D\7— Furr

(or, N. K. Kes (Prof. P. N. Singh}

Secretary Chairman
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar, NIT Agartala NIT Agartala

Page 3 of 3
