
--- Page 1 ---
Teas WEP Tet PA SETA

National Institute of Technology Agartala

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR

 

MINUTES OF

FORTY FOURTH
SENATE MEETING

HELD ON

24'™ MAY, 2024

AT
10.00 AM.

 


--- Page 2 ---
TS Weal He SPT

National Institute of Technology Agartala
OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR

 

 


--- Page 3 ---
o Teta sea ae SATA

National Institute of Technology Agartala

je te

NITA‘5/(7- ACAD)/SENATE/2024/44/) -192-4 Date: 25° /@3/2025

Minutes of the 44" SENATE Meetin

 

The 44" meeting of SENATE of National Institute of Technology Agartala was held
on 24" May 2024 at 10,00 am. The following members and invitee members attended the
ys

 

meeting:

1. Prof. Sarat Kumar Patra Chairman
Director, NIT Agartala . .

2. Prof. Uday Shanker Dixit Member
IIT Guwahati, Assam

3. Prof. Snehashish Chakraverty _ Member
NIT Rourkela, Odisha (Attended through VC)

4, Prof. Seema Sharma. , Member
IIT Delhi, New Delhi . (Attended through VC)

5. Prof. Swapan Bhaumik Member
Professor (ME) & Dean (AA) NIT Agartala

6. Prof. Umesh Mishra Member
Professor (CE) NIT Agartala

7. Prof. R. P. Sharma Member
Professor (CE) NIT Agartala

8. Prof. Prasun Chakraborti Member
Professor (ME) NIT Agartala

9, Prof. Sujit Kumar Pal Member
Professor (CE) NIT Agartala

10. Prof. Ajoy Kumar Das Member
Professor (ME) NIT Agartala

ll. Prof, Ratul Das Member
Professor (CE) NIT Agartala

12. Prof. Priyanath Das Member
Professor (EE) NIT Agartala

13, Prof.ArdhenduSaha Member
Professor (EE) NIT Agartala

14, Prof. Manish Pal Member

- Professor (CE) NIT Agartala

15, Prof. Debasish Bhattacharya Member
Professor (MA) NIT Agartala

16. Prof. Aparna Nath Member
Professor (PH) NIT Agartala

17. Prof. Debasis Neogi Member
Professor (MHSS) NIT Agartala

18. Prof. John Deb Barma Member
Professor (ME), NIT, Agartala

19. Prof. Mrinal Kanti Deb Barma Member
Professor (CSE), NIT, Agartala

20. Prof. Sima Ghosh Member
Professor (CE), NIT, Agartala

21. Prof. Deb Dulal Tripura Member
Professor (CE), NIT, Agartala

22. Prof. Rajib Saha Member
Professor (CE), NIT, Agartala

23. Prof. Apu Kumar Saha Member
Professor (MA), NIT, Agartala | ky

1
i a
Barjala, Agartala-799046, India, Website-www.nita.ac.in “
MINUTES OF THE 44"SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 1


--- Page 4 ---
UST Welt I STAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala

 

24. Prof. Partha Pratim Sarkar Member
Professor (CE), NIT, Agartala

25, Prof. Baby Bhattacharya Member
Professor (MA), NIT, Agartala

26. Prof. Rajsekhar Panua Member
Professor (ME), NIT, Agartala

27, Prof. Dibyendu Ghoshal Member
Professor (EE), NIT, Agartala

28. Prof. Uttam Kumar Bera Member
Professor (MA), NIT, Agartala

29. Prof. Mitali Saha Member
Professor (CY), NIT, Agartala

30. Prof. Paritosh Bhattacharya Member
Professor (MA), NIT, Agartala

31. Prof. Tarun Kumar Misra Member
Professor (CY), NIT, Agartala

32. Prof. Arvind Kumar Jain — Member
Professor (EE), NIT, Agartala

33. Head of the Department Invitee
Bio Engineering, NIT Agartala

34. Head of the Department Invitee
Chemical Engineering, NIT Agartala

35. Head of the Department Invitee
Electronics & Comm. Engineering, NIT Agartala

36. Head of the Department Invitee
Mechanical Engineering, NIT Agartala

37. Head of the Department Invitee
Production Engineering, NIT Agartala

38. Head of the Department Invitee
Management, Humanities and Social Sciences,

- NIT Agartala
39. Col.(Dr.) Ashish Badola Secretary

Registrar, NIT Agartala

Prof. Sarat Kumar Patra, Chairman SENATE welcomed all the new members
including external members of SENATE of NIT Agartala who attended the meeting
through online. Then, the Dean (Academic) welcomed Chairman SENATE, External
Members, all the members, Secretary SENATE and invitees. Then he invited all to take
part in the discussion on the agenda points of the meeting. The Chairman SENATE
initiated the discussion and invited Dean (Academic) to place all the agenda points one by
one for open discussion and decision.

The Dean (Academic) placed all the agenda points one by one. Members present in
the meeting took part in the discussion and gave their considered views. After detailed
discussion, the decisions were taken unanimously:

Item No. $/44/1 Confirmation of minutes of the 43" meeting of SENATE held on 06/02/2024.

The Minutes of the 43" meeting of SENATE held on 06/02/2024 were
confirmed.

y.
je
Luke
ee

FAI Gn tet
rN
Barjala, Agartala-799046, India, Website-www.nita.ac.in

MINUTES OF THE 44"SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 2


--- Page 5 ---
USS Weal Gea SPAT

National Institute of Technology Agartala

Item No. §/44/2 Consideration and approval for waiving criteria of a SCI paper in lieu of the
Patent published in respect of supervising Ph.D scholar.

 

The house perused the proposal and decided that the existing criteria of
supervision of first Ph.D scholar by faculty member at NIT Agartala will
continue. SENATE approved and confirmed the proposal for waiving criteria of
a SCI paper in lieu of the Patent published in respect of supervising Ph.D scholar
by existing faculty member of NIT Agartala.

Item No. S/44/3 Consideration of honorarium to faculty member serving as additional
responsibility in administrative positions.

The SENATE dropped the item and suggested to place before the FC and BoG of
the Institute, as this is a policy decision and not related to academics.

Item No. S/44/4- Proposal of amendment in the admission procedure of Institute Project
Staff and full-time MoE scholarship category for Ph.D admission.

The SENATE resolved to continue with the existing procedure of admission in
Ph.D programme to candidates working as Project Staff in the Institute in various
Academic Departments.

Further, the House also approved and confirmed that fulltime MoE scholarship
candidates having GATE/ NET/ Equivalent National level examination
qualification will be exempted from appearing in the Institute level written test.
The amended weightage format is also approved, annexed at ANNEXURE- A.

Item No. S/44/5 Ratification of enhancement of seats in MBA programme from 38 to 60.

The SENATE ratified and confirmed enhanced number of seats for the MBA
programme from 38 to 60 which is effective from the academic year 2024-25.

Item No. $/44/6 Continuation of honorarium to the External Examiners for conducting
Grand Viva/Project Viva for final year UG and PG student.

The SENATE approved and confirmed the following:

i. Honorarium of Rs. 5000/- per day to the External Examiners for conducting
Grand Viva/Project Viva for final year UG/ Dual Degree/ PG students.

ii. For UG/ Dual Degree programmes, a maximum 30 students may be
examined per day as per SI. no. i.

iii.For PG programmes (each specialization), maximum of 10 students may be
examined per day as per SI. no. 1.

Item No. $/44/7 Proposal for rationalization of tuition fee for various categories of students
in Dual Degree programmes and implementation of tuition fee remission/
waiver at par with B.Tech programme.

The House perused and decided to constitute the following committee for _
exploring the proposal of implementation of fee waiver and remission to various |
categories of students in terms of the annual family income to Dual Degree 7.

programmes at NIT Agartala at par with B.Tech norms of fee remission/ waiver:

ne rn a
Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. Website-www.nita.acin
MINUTES OF THE 44"SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 3


--- Page 6 ---
National Institute of Technology Agartala

 

i. Dean (Academic) - Chairperson
ii. HoDs (Chemistry, Mathematics, Physics) - Members
iii. Asst. Registrar (Academic Affairs) - Convener

The committee will submit a report to the Chairman SENATE for further
decision and implementation.

Item No. $/44/8 Proposal for internal branch change of BS-MS dual _ degree
programme.

The SENATE approved and confirmed that students of BS-MS may be offered
for branch change/ internal sliding, subject to the limitation that the strength of a
branch should not fall below the existing strength by more than ten percent and
should not go above the sanctioned strength by more than ten percent, in 2"
year among the BS-MS programmes (Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics
Departments) only. The existing regulation of the Institute regarding branch
change will apply in this case also.

This will be applicable for the students of BS-MS in 3™ semester in the
Academic Year 2024-25.

Item No. $/44/9 Proposal for inclusion of an elective course titled “AI & ML in Chemical
Engineering” in the curriculum of B.Tech in Chemical Engineering.

The SENATE approved and confirmed for introduction of “AI & ML in
Chemical Engineering” as elective course into the 6"/ 7" semester of the B.Tech
curriculum of Chemical Engineering, effective from A.Y 2024-25.

The House authorized the Chairman SENATE for approval of the detailed
syllabus of the course.

Item No. $/44/10 Proposal of enhancement of intake admission capacity of BS-MS Dual
Degree Programmes of Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics Departments
from the academic session 2025-26.

The SENATE approved that the intake admission capacity of BS-MS (Dual
Degree) programme in Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics Departments to be
enhanced to 40 (Including Female Supernumerary seats),from existing 25 seats,
for admission through JoSAA/ CSAB from A.Y 2025-26.

 

 

 

 

 

Intake from A. Y. 2025- 26|Intake from A. Y. 2026- 27
Department dj | Includine Femal
(BS-MS programme) (Including Female (Including Female
Supernumerary) Supernumerary)
Chemistry ~ 40 60
Mathematics 40 60
Physics 40 60

 

 

 

 

eo Further, the SENATE suggested that such intake may be increased to 60 from the
A.Y 2026-27 based on the availability of resources at the Institute.

a ea eT
Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. Website-www.nita.ac.in
MINUTES OF THE 44"SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 4

 


--- Page 7 ---
 

Item No. 8/44/11

Item No. 8/44/12

 

National Institute of Technology Agartala

Proposal of introduction of new degree courses in B.Tech in Biomedical
Engineering and Bachelor of Design (B.Des).

 

The House perused the existing number of seats in B.Tech programmes offered
for admission through JoOSAA/ CSAB by NIT Agartala along with the vacancy
for the last 3 (three) academic years in department-wise.

After threadbare discussion, the SENATE approved and confirmed the following
number of seat capacity for admission for the Bachelor programmes of the
Institute, tentatively applicable from A.Y. 2025-26. The SENATE also approved
introduction of new programmes “B.Tech in Biomedical Engineering” and
“Bachelor of Design (B.Des)” from tentatively A.Y. 2025-26.The numbers of
seats indicated below will be Including Female Supernumerary seats for
admission through JoOSAA/ CSAB.

 

Admission Intake from A. Y.2025- 26
(Including Female Supernumerary)
120

120

120

180

120

90

90

90

60

 
     

Programme | Department / Branch

B.Tech

 

 

    
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

BE
Biomedical Engineering 60
Bachelor of Design 60

foal |

 

 

    

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

However, Chairman, SENATE appealed to all the HoDs to develop the detailed
plan for its implementation in phase wise and take necessary action accordingly.
This rationalization of intake capacity will help enhancement of GER for Vikshit
Bharat.

Proposal for enhancement of intake capacity in M. Tech. programmes.

The House perused the existing number of seats in M.Tech programmes offered
for admission through CCMT by NIT Agartala along with the vacancy for the
last 4 (four) academic years available in department and specialization-wise.

After threadbare discussion, the SENATE approved and confirmed the following
number of seat capacity for admission for the M.Tech programmes of the
Institute, effective from A.Y. 2025-26 considering the decisions of earlier
SENATE to provide scholarship to Non-Gate qualified Students and
enhancement of GER for Vikshit Bharat:

 

 
  

 
  
    

  
  
 

 

Name of the Admission
Department Specialization (CCMT code) Intake from
A.Y. 2025- 26

  

 

Geotechnical Engineering (GE) 15

Structural Engineering (SU)

  

Civil Engg.

 

 

 

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. Website-www.nita.ac.in

MINUTES OF THE 44"SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 5

A

eee
, ae
a


--- Page 8 ---
 

 

Item No. $/44/13

TS MENA PI SET
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Environmental Engineering (EV)
Transportation Engineering (TE)

Water Resources Engineering (WR)

Hydro Informatics Engineering (HI)

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Seismic Science & Engineering (SA) | 15

Thermal Science & Engineering (TC) 15

Manufacturing Technology (MF) 15

Mechanical Engg, Machine Design (MD) 15
Automotive Engineering (AU) 15

Material Science & Engineering (MS) 15

| Power Electronics & Drives (PD) 15

. Power System Engineering (PT) 15
Electrical Engg. Instrumentation Engineering (IE) 15
Integrated Energy System (IJ) 15

Electronics & | VLSI Design (VN) 15
Communication 15

' Engg. Communication Systems & Signal Processing

Artificial Intelligence (AD) 15

Computer So. & Data Science 15

Engg :

Cyber Security 15

Production Engg.) Computer Integrated Manufacturing (XI) 15
| Chemical Engg. | Chemical Engineering (CE) 15
Bio Engg. Biotechnology & Biochemical Engineering (BH) 15
Total 360

 

 

 

Further, the SENATE suggested a committee consisting of following members to
explore the availability of large sized classrooms in the CE Department and
utilizing such class rooms as Exam halls and Seminar halls:

i. Dean (Planning & Development) -— Chairman
ii. Dean (Academic) — Member
iii, HoD, Civil Engineering —— Member

The committee shall report directly to the Director, NIT Agartala for further
course of action for effective resource utilization.

Proposal for increasing intake admission capacity of M. Sc. programmes of
Institute.

The SENATE approved that the intake admission capacity of M.Sc. programmes
in Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics Departments are to be enhanced to 30
from present strength of 13 for admission through CCMN, effective from A.Y
2025-26,

 

    

 

 

 

 

Department Admission Intake
(M. Sc. programme) from A. Y. 2025- 26
Chemistry 30
Mathematics 30
Physics 30

 

 

a aT a OE

MINUTES OF THE 44"SENATE 24/05/2024

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. Website-www.nita.ac.in
Page 6


--- Page 9 ---
 

Item No. 8/44/14

Item No. $/44/15

Item No. 8/44/16

 

aden edt set ort

National Institute of Technology Agartala

Proposal for amendment in Regulations of Institute for allowing: students of
M.Tech and MCA programmes to continue Project & thesis work if
employed on or after gna " semester.

 

After threadbare discussion, the SENATE approved the cases of 3 (three)
students viz., Samiran Nayak, Biswajit Das, Amit Kumar Sharma of M.Tech
programmes in the CE, BE and CSE Departments respectively, are allowed to
complete their PG degree at NIT Agartala within a maximum duration of 5 (five)
years from the date of admission in the programme,

Further, the house decided that the students have to produce Acceptance/ NOC
from his/ her employer for continuation of project & thesis work at NIT
Agartala. Regular progress of project work by the student to be assessed by the
supervisor on monthly basis and subsequently recommended by DPPC. Such
student shall not be eligible for any financial assistance from the NIT Agartala
during the project work. Such student has to attend
examination/presentation/seminar etc., as and when scheduled by the
department.

Further, the SENATE has constituted a committee of following members for
recommendations on amendment required in such cases in the existing PG
Regulations and curriculums:

i. Dean (Academic) - Chairperson
ii. Prof. R. P. Sharma, Professor-in-Charge (Curriculum) = - Member

iii. HoDs (BE, CE, CSE) - Members
iv. Dy. Registrar (Academic Affairs) - Convener

The house suggested to issue the notice of committee immediately after the
publication of this minutes.

Proposal for consideration and approval for offering a new Open Elective
course titled ‘Entrepreneurship and Innovation’ at NIT Agartala to be
executed for the CBDE program.

The SENATE approved and confirmed offer of a 2- credits Open Elective course
entitled ‘Entrepreneurship and Innovation’ for the UG, Dual Degree, PG and
Ph.D. programmes of the Institute, effective from A.Y 2024-25,

The House authorized the Chairman SENATE for approval of the detailed
syllabus of the course.

Proposal for consideration and approval of regulation for financial
assistance for Paper Presentations at Conferences, Seminars, and
Symposium, Workshop, etc.

The House perused the proposal and suggested that B.Tech students, M.Tech
students will be allowed to present 1(one) paper in their whole tenure, with the
reimbursement of the TA/DA and registration fees paid.

However, Ph.D scholars may be allowed to present 2 (two) papers in the
Conference. Scholar may be allowed one in India and 1 (one) abroad, or two in

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. Website-www.nita.ac.in. .

MINUTES OF THE 44°SENATE 24/05/2024 a . _: Page 7


--- Page 10 ---
 

Item No. 8/44/17

Item No. 8/44/18

"] f ™ 7
US Wer raT IM SPAT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
India during his whole tenure of programme. For presentation of paper by PhD
Scholar in India, full reimbursement of the TA/DA and registration fees will be
made. For presentation of paper by PhD Scholar in abroad, 50% of the total cost

(TA/DA and registration fees) will be borne by the Institute and the remaining
expense may be borne by the scholar/ any funding agency.

Further, the SENATE has constituted a committee consisting of following
faculty members to look into the proposal further and place recommendations on
the regulation and type/ category of conferences:

i. Prof. Umesh Mishra, Professor, CE - Chairperson
ii. Asso. Dean (PG) - Member

ili. Dr. Biswajit Saha, Assoc. Professor, PH - Member

iv. Dr. Jayanta Rakshit, Assoc. Professor, EIE - Member

v. Dr, Biswanath Bhunia, Asst. Professor, BE - Member

vi. Dy. Registrar(Acad) - Convener

The house suggested to the issue of the notice of committee immediately after
the publication of this minutes, with a request to the committee to submit a report
within 30 days from the issue of notice.

Proposal of introducing Mandatory Additional requirement (MAR) ((Non
Credit) for earning Degree (UG, Dual Degree, PG and Ph.D)) in NIT
Agartala w.e.f. 2024-25 A.Y.

The SENATE approved in principle, the proposal of introduction of Mandatory
Additional Requirements (MAR) in the academic curriculum of UG, Dual
Degree, PG and Ph.D programmes,

Further, the House has constituted the following committee for review of the
proposal and place further recommendation to the Chairman, SENATE for
further decision:

i. Dean (Academic) - Chairperson
ii, Dean (Students’ Welfare- 1) - Member

iii. Dean (Students’ Welfare- 2) - Member

iv. Chairman, CRTD, NITA - Member

v. Chairman, Unnat Bharat Abbiyan, NITA - Member

vi. NSS Officer, NITA - Member
vu. NCC Officer, NITA - Member
viii SAS Officer, NITA - Member

ix. Asst. Registrar (Academic Affairs) - Convener

The house suggested to issue the notice of committee immediately after the
publication of this minutes.

Proposal of MHSS Department to offer Ph. D coursework of Research
Methodology and Research and Publication Ethics courses from MOOC/
NPTEL. ,

The agenda point was subsequently discussed in the 46” meeting of SENATE
and the following modifications in the regulation have been taken:

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India, Website-www.nita.ac.in

MINUTES OF THE 44"SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 8


--- Page 11 ---
ee

 

Item No. 8/44/19

Item No. 8/44/20

x QO .
US TE GAM SETAE
National Institute of Technology Agartala

i. After admission in Ph.D programme, Part-time scholar will be provided
choice by the Department whether the scholar is interested to take the
mandatory courses of course work in Physical mode in the Institute or from
MOOCs/ NPTEL platform.

ii. The course in MOOC/ NPTEL to be chosen by the DC of the scholar as per
equivalent credit to the course credit of NIT Agartala for these courses

iii. The grades/ marks of MOOC/ NPTEL will be mapped and transferred
directly to NIT Agartala by the DC to the Associate Dean (Examinations).

iv. Mandatory course works related to Ph.D program offered by MHSS
Department will be offered through online mode also in view of the in-
service PhD candidates. Candidates may give their choice of attending
these courses as Physical or Online mode. Exams shall be organized in
physical mode.

v. All the categories of Ph.D scholars are to attend Examinations (Mid-term
and End-term) in Physical mode only at the Institute, except the cases of
MOOCs/ NPTEL.

vi. This will be effective for all scholars from the academic session 2025-26,

Consideration and approval of attendance regulations of NIT Agartala.

The house perused the proposed draft Attendance Regulations of students of NIT
Agartala being prepared by a committee formed by SENATE and discussed in
details. The SENATE suggested that after modification of the draft regulation,
the same to be approved by the Chairman, SENATE.

Proposal for introducing a 1 (one) Credit Course- by Industry people about
Present Trends in Industry.

The SENATE approved in principle for introduction of a 1(one) Credit course by
industry people about the present Trends in Industry. Further, the House offered
some views on the proposal as following:

Institute may enhance the basket of 1- Credit/ 2- Credit elective courses.
Such courses may be conducted in physical or online modes.

Courses may be conducted by Guest faculty/ Industry experts/Alumni.
Evaluation of such 1- Credit courses to be done through assignments, quizzes
and/ or presentation/ seminars.

5. Evaluation of such 2- Credit courses to be done through one examination and
assignments, quizzes, in proportion of 70% and 30% weightage respectively.

PWNE

The SENATE has also constituted the following committee for framing
guideline/ regulation for offering open elective courses, to be placed before the
SENATE for decision:

i. Prof. Baby Bhattacharya, Professor, MA - Chairman
ii. Prof. Mrinal Kanti Debbarma, Professor, CSE - Member
iii. Prof. Sima Ghosh, Professor, CE - Member

ee ee er er rere ee reer er ccccccccc eee errr eee eae eee eee

 

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India, Website-www.nita.ac.in

MINUTES OF THE 44"SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 9


--- Page 12 ---
 

Item No. 8/44/21

Item No. 8/44/22

Item No. 8/44/23

Item No. 8/44/24

Item No. $/44/25

., a
“sf
oe

-

#

\e
A

Item No. 8/44/26

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Proposal for relaxation in the credit of course work needed to enroll in the

PhD program in Bio Engineering for candidates with a
B.Tech/BE/B.Pharm, or Master of Science (M. Sc.) degree.

The SENATE upheld the decision in its 43" meeting.

Also, the House suggested that departments to implement the decision of the
SENATE before placing for any amendment in the immediate subsequent
meeting, unless and otherwise any exception.

Proposal for relaxation in additional eligibility criteria of the M. Tech
programme in the Bio Engineering Department.

The SENATE dropped the agenda and suggested to continue with the existing
criteria.

Proposal for revising Clause 7.10 of existing Ph.D. regulations 2018 of NIT
Agartala. .

The SENATE perused the proposal and approved and confirmed the following
amendment in the clause 7.10 of the Ph.D Regulations 2018 of NIT Agartala.

The amended clause 7.10 to be read as below:

“One faculty member will not be allowed to supervise more than 4 Ph.D scholars
of Full-time with Scholarship (under MoE and Institute), QIP and Visvesvaraya
schemes as Supervisor and 8 Ph.D scholars as Co-/Joint- Supervisor for same
categories. However, in exceptional case the faculty member can guide more
than 4 Ph.D scholars with Institute fellowship provided it is approved by the
SENATE.”

Proposal of MoU between NIT Agartala and IISER, Kolkata.

The SENATE discussed the draft MoU placed in the meeting and approved for
signing it with IISER, Kolkata.

Consideration and ratification of MoU between NIT Agartala and MDS
IndoCan Inc., Canada.

The SENATE ratified and confirmed the MoU signed between NIT Agartala and
MDS IndoCan Inc., Canada.

Proposal for consideration of signing MoUs with IIT Bhubaneswar, JIT
Mandi and NIT Rourkela.

Considering the prospect of NIT Agartala, the SENATE advised and approved
that Chairman, AA & IR to start process of signing MoUs with Institutes of
National Importance of the country.

A a

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. Website-www.nita.ac.in

MINUTES OF THE 44"SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 10


--- Page 13 ---
 

Item No. 8/44/27

Item No. 8/44/28

Item No. 8/44/29

Item No. 8/44/30

Item No. 8/44/31

National Institute of Technology Agartala

Proposal for consideration of signing MoUs with Centrally funded
Technical Institutions/ Central Govt. Organizations within the North-East
Region of India.

The House discussed in detail and suggested the following:

(i) MoUs may be signed with Universities/ Institutes/ Colleges (Central/ State/
Private)of Tripura by NIT Agartala, from the perspective of social and
educational responsibility towards the state of Tripura.

(ii) MoUs may be considered with Universities/ Institutes/ Colleges under
Central/ State Governments and Private Universities having NIRF Ranking
below 200 for the last 5 (five) years, pan India.

The Chairman AA & IR, NIT Agartala has been suggested to look into the
prospects of signing MoUs with such Institutions.

Proposal for consideration of signing MoUs with Govt. Engineering/
Technology Institutions/ Colleges within the North-East Region of India.

The decision vide item no. §/44/27 is to be followed.

Proposal for consideration of signing MoUs with Tripura State Govt.
Organizations.

The SENATE advised and approved that Chairman, AA & IR to look into the
prospect of signing MoUswith Tripura State Govt. Organizations, such as State
PWD, RD, TSECL etc.In this case, all HoD may also find the departmental
opportunities and may be acted accordingly to co-operate Chairman, AA & IR

Request for clarification regarding issuance of NOC to faculty members of
the Institute to supervise UG/ PG/ Ph.D students of outside the Institute.

The SENATE reviewed the decision and clarified that NOC is to be issued
directly by the Dean (Faculty Welfare) with due recommendation of the
concerned department, except any special case.

Regarding the policy for Scrapping of Answer Scripts.

The SENATE approved the following in relation to scrapping of answer scripts
of NIT Agartala:

(i) The answer scripts are to be retained for 1 (one) academic year from the
session of examination, by concerned faculty member, to facilitate any
academic audit.

(ii) After expiry of the 1 (one) academic year, the Department shall retain few
answer scripts and laboratory reports of each course of students scoring
highest, lowest and average marks in theclass for at least 3 (three) years for
exhibiting before NBA team visit in any department .

(iii) The first page of answer scripts and laboratory reportswill be torn off by
concerned faculty member, where the student details and marks are entered
and to be destroyed.

en

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. Website-www.nita.ac.in

MINUTES OF THE 44"'SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 11


--- Page 14 ---
 

Item No. 8/44/32

Item No. 8/44/33

eon
fer
N

Item No. 8/44/34

National Institute of Technology Agartala

(iv) The rest of the pages of answer scripts and laboratory reports will be
auctioned/ disposed to any vendor of paper disposal/ recycling, after being
notified by the Office of the Registrar, NIT Agartala, from time to time.

(v) The copies of students failed in any course (theory and/ or laboratory) are to
be retained till the student passes the course.

The answer scripts to be scrapped be disposed off for recycling.

Proposal for modification of Leave Rules for NIT Agartala.

The SENATE perused that the modifications in the Leave Rules has been
brought for consensus of the SENATE in view of the academic leaves by the
faculty members in terms of vacation, that is included in the Academic Calendar
of the Institute.

It was suggested to put modifications proposed in case of faculty members
availing vacation and deduction of EL. Vacation can be availed by faculty
members at their discretion during the period permitted by the SENATE.

i. Within 60 days of vacation period, for two days leave; one day EL will be
deducted.

ii. Beyond 60 days of availed vacation; every one day leave will attract one day
EL deduction even it is within vacation period.

The SENATE suggested that the proposal may be placed before the BoG along
with a compiled form of Leave rules that are applicable to the employees of NIT
Agartala, as per Govt. of India.

In this context, the SENATE has constituted a committee for recommendation
and placing a proposal before the ensuing BoG for consideration and decision:

(i) Dean (Faculty Welfare) - Chairperson

(ii) Dean (Planning & Development) - Member

aii) Prof. Debasish Bhattacharya, Professor, | - Member
MA Deptt.

Nomination of member of BoG as per clause (f) of section 11 of the NIT’s
Act- 2007.

The nomination of Dr. Prasenjit Dutta, Assistant Professor (Gr-I), Production
Engineering Department, NIT Agartala has been accepted by the SENATE, as a
member of BoG, for 2 (two) years, w.e.f. 07/05/2024 to 06/05/2026.

Ratification of Result of Even Semester Examination of NIT Agartala.

The SENATE acknowledged the results presented before it and ratified the
results published on 22/05/2024 of Even Semester Examination of NIT Agartala.

A brief of the results (as on the date of SENATE meeting) of final year students
ofUG & Dual Degree programmes are highlighted below:

ea To

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. Website-www.nita.ac.in

MINUTES OF THE 44"SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 12


--- Page 15 ---
 

 
 
   
 

   
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No. of students | No. of students
appeared passed
| 1. |B. Tech. 862 854
| 2. | BS-MS (8" sem.) 53 46
! 3. ! BI-MT (8 sem.) (Physics only) 17
4, | BS-MS (10™ sem.) 39
| 5. | BT-MT (10™ sem.) (Physics only) 05

 

Further, the SENATE decided to hold a meeting in physical/online/ hybrid mode
before publication of result.

Some agenda items were placed on the table with the permission of the Chair.

$/44/T/01

8/44/T/02

Engagement of ‘Professor of Practice; Visiting Faculty and Adjunct faculty’
at NIT Agartala.

Dean (AA) informed that NITA needs engagement of “Professor of Practice;
Visiting Faculty and Adjunct faculty” for greater interest of the Institute. The
house perused that the BoG in its 62"! meeting vide item no. 62.12 recommended
engagement of Visiting Faculty/ Adjunct Faculty/ Honorary Professor at NIT
Agartala. It has been recommended to consider “Professor of Practice”.
Engagement of such position will be done as per procedure ascertained in due
course of time.

Proposal of introduction of ‘Distinguished Alumni Award’ at NIT Agartala.

The SENATE discussed on the proposal initiated by Prof. Swapan Bhaumik,
Professor, NIT Agartala, who also happens to be the President of the NIT
Agartala Alumni, the organization of Alumni of NIT Agartala. The house
acknowledged the proposal and constituted the following committee for
recommendation and report on the proposal:

i. Chairman, AA & IR, NIT Agartala - Chairperson

ii. An Alumni from Institute at the level of Professor - Member
nominated by the Director, NIT Agartala

iii. An Alumni from Industry nominated by the - Member
President of the NIT Agartala Alumni

This committee shall submit the report within 1 (one) month, from the date of
issue of this memo, to the Chairman, SENATE for further consideration of the
authority.

 

  

 

 

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. Website-www.nita.ac.in

MINUTES OF THE 44"SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 13


--- Page 16 ---
US TEN PA SET
National Institute of Technology Agartala

. $/44/T/03 Consideration for approval of the case of Dhruvy Kumar, a student of BS-
MS programme in the Department of Physics, NIT Agartala.

 

An application received from Mr. Dhruv Kumar (21DSPH004) a student of
BSMS Physics 3™year (6" Semester) to allow him to takeup a 6 months project at
the Australian National University, Australia. In this regard, the following
observations were discussed:

1. According to institute rules, the minimum credit requirement for a BS degree
is 140.

2. In the instant case, the student will earn 132 credits after successful
completion of 6th semester. According to the institute rule, he will require 08
more credits to get the BS degree.

3. However, according to the revised existing BS- Ms curriculum there are 38
credits (20 credits in 7semester and 8" credits in 8° "Semester) in the 4" year.

4. The student has applied for permission to undergo a 6 months internship/
project at ANU in the T"semester from July 2024 to January 2025 that may
extend depending on his performance.

The SENATE perused the proposal and resolved the following:

1. Students visiting foreign University/ Institute of QS Rank below 500 can be
permitted.

2. Credit to be transferred from the host University/ Institute as per the norms of
NIT Agartala.

3. DUPC, in consultation with the Faculty Advisor to act on replacement of the
core courses at the host University/ Institute and courses from
MOOCS/NPTEL.

4, Student(s) must meet the minimum credit requirements for the programme in
order to be conferred degree at NIT Agartala.

5. Such students will not be entitled for any financial assistance from NIT
Agartala, for his/ her entire duration at the foreign University/ Institute.

6. He/ She have to continue his/ her semester registration at NIT Agartala as per
regulations of the Institute followed for students in Exchange programmes.
Else, his/ her enrollment at the Institute will be cancelled.

The case of Dhruv Kumar is approved by the SENATE.DUPC of Physics
Department may do the needful for mapping of his credits for conferring degree
after his return from Australian National University, Australia.

S/44/T/04 Consideration of offering Ph. D programme under the CRTD.

The SENATE perused that a committee was constituted in its 43" meeting for
running and functioning of Centres at the Institute.

Further, the House also suggested that any academic degree 1 is to be given by an
Academic Department/ Centre only.

a a i
Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. Website-www.nita.ac.in
MINUTES OF THE 44" SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 14

 


--- Page 17 ---
TT Ween A ATCT
National Institute of Technology Agartala

S/44/T/05 Consideration and ratification of GATE paper ‘Data Science and Artificial
Intelligence (DA)’ eligible for M. Tech admission in CSE course as per
eligibility criteria of CCMT- 2024.

 

Prof. Mrinal Kanti Debbarma, the Centre In-charge of NIT Agartala for CCMT
2024 informed that this year, GATE authority introduced new subject as GATE
in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence with GATE paper code ‘DA’. Further,
CCMT 2024 allowed the Centre In-charges of all the Participating Institutes
(PIs) about permission to participate in any PG course with the qualification of
GATE in DA. He also informed that permission to allow such students will
prosper the admission of good numbers in CSE Department and accordingly, the
authority has also permitted to map and freeze the seat matrix with GATE in DA
in specializations of CSE Departments.

The same matter was discussed in detail and the SENATE ratified the decision of
the Chairman, SENATE.

The Meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the Chair.

beth got [pe

(Prof. Sarat Kumar Patra) (Col. Dr.) Ashish Badola)
Chairman, SENATE Registrar & Secretary, SENATE

| ean ae

a
Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. Website-www.nita.ac.in

MINUTES OF THE 44"SENATE 24/05/2024 Page 15


--- Page 18 ---


--- Page 19 ---
IZ ose

 

UBULIIeY) 94} JO aInyeUsIS

 

Jaquid]Al 9Y} JO sINyeUsIS | Jaquisy] 94} JO ainyeusis | JaquIsJAy 94} JO aINjeUsIS |

IOquUIa|Ay 9y] JO sINJwUBIS

 

 

 

 

popu
au
099y

10N pa

/\@om ueny
Pept) 1D) | yas
sul | pero aunty

ovay suods) [[ny

WIed.14S

d | a0ue19
Tysie| Loy diy
Joys | srepoyas
HOTA] [990 SU]

diysiepoyas
WTA
ee UL

 

 

 

&
1osajeQ
ayseQ | (T1e
ilapun a).19AQ)
olvIo][e] pa
yeas janaas
emp; 10yp | uo
yivg ssodoig|yisog

(esndii1) 970662 — ejeMedy ‘eluesr ‘ejefaeg

VIVLYVDV ADOTONHOGL JO ALNLILSNI TVNOLLVN
Lob elste

  

00T
yo 3nO

 

SYABW QT

   

 

won
eardde

 

  

 

aod
se Al
oseju.| [ey0y, |A9LA197 0]
a4se

 

- MAX ANNV

 

 

SHIVU OT —
adualajUOD poxaput (OI
sndoog wi isded | 0 jno %
proper sndong. iad
nossamosnos | (OT Fo yo qua
wrodedt) 1% / VdDO [eamby)
Sy1eUr juayeAmby) sya
SYAVUI YE 07 WNUNXEA | syzeur sz SI
(ust) Joy paydursxe
ST ]SO} US}ILIM pu
SYTeUL OE 195 [IM
soyepipueo parpijenb
LAN /ALVD)
489} WIL (-943
[9A9'T “JSUT PSTA /
[yJAod [BAW 493, LTA)
Aq poyanpuos 9a.189(]
459} [9A9T Id}SUIAT
ewonjenN toyjo | coneoTqng saidoq | Apioads jojyenpess
{LUN /ALV9 Jaded I9seyy | aseag | rspug

PIinIIag SYA
WOISSAS DTWLAPIG eZine eeeee eee eeseeseeseeseserees MOTATOIONL / JSO} UIIJIIM Q'Yg 10F ISUIYSIIN

 

 

 

*LNGINLYVddd GAL dO WIAVN

 

ayeprpuca
aq} Jo aulEN]

 

 

‘ON
Is

 


--- Page 20 ---
