
--- Page 1 ---
Minutes/ 65,h _A (Special) BOG
Through Circulation/ NIT Agartala
r
NAIIIOITAL INSTITUTE OF TEENNOLOGY AGAI]TALA
WDST TIIIPUIIA, pfN: ZSS046
**,t,f**'f,*
tulinutes of tfie 65tn -,n $peciaQ *leeting of tfre
cBoarf of
Qoaernors
The Agenda of Board of Governors, 65th - A (Special) meeting of National Institute of
Technology Agartala was circulated among the following members of Board of Governors vide
Notification No. F. NITA. 3 (139-GENy BOG (65)/ 2014, dated: t7-09-2024 and the meeting
was convened through circulation.
(1)
Shri Binod Bawri Chairperson of BoG, NIT Agartala
(2)
Prof. (Dr.) S. K. Patra Director, NIT Agartala.
(3)
Prot.Devendra.lalihal Director, IIT Guwahati
(4)
Smt. Saumya Gupta Joint Secretary (NITs), MoE, Dept. of Higher
Education, Govt. of India.
(5)
Shri Sanjog Kapoor .Ioint Secretary & FA, IFD, MoE, Govt. of India.
(6)
Shri Raval FL Kumar Secretary, Dept. of Higher Education,
Govt. of Tripura.
(7)
Shri Rajib Debbarma Chief Engineer, PWD (R&B), Govt. of Tripura.
(8)
Prof. (Dr.) S. Bhaumik Professor, Mechanical Engineering Department,
NIT Agartala.
(9)
Dr. P. Dutta Assistant Professor, Production Engineering
Department, NIT Agartala.
(10)
Col. (Dr.) Ashish Badola Secretary of BoG & Registrar, NIT Agartala.
The Technical Section - III (NITs Desk), Department of Higher Education, Ministry of
Education folwarded the. consent on the agenda of 65tl' - A (Special) Board of Governors
meeting through e-mail dated: 20th September 2024 and another member of Board of Governors.
Prof. S. Bhaumik also forwarded his consent thlough e-rnail dated: igth September 2024. No
other members submitted their comments.
Itenl No. 6.5(4).1: To consider amendment in Statutes to prevent overlap in functioning
of Director and Chairperson.
The Board approved as per provisions Section 26 (2) of the NITSER Act, 2007 to initiate
amendment to insert following clause in Statute 14 of Statutes of NITs and IIEST, Shibpur:
"(v) In the event of the oc.currence of any vaconcy in the ffice of the Chairperson of Board of
Governors by reason of expiry of his or her tenure, dealh, resignation or otherwise or in th-e
event of the Chairperson being unable to discharge his or her functions owing to absence,
illness or any other caltse, the Chairperson of an Institute of National Importance (INI)
nominated by the Visitor to fill up the casual vacancy, may discharge the functions assigned to
Pagelof2
r
.h
--Y

--- Page 2 ---
i
Minutes/ 65th -A (Speciat) BOG
Through Circulation/ NIT Agartala
the Chairperson under Sectio-n l6 of the Art,'7o, a period of six month's or tlll the nomination of
a regular Chairpe-rson, whichever is earlier.
Additionally, is case of eliirl of tenure, the visitor may extend the term of the incumbent
chairperson .for a period of six months or till the nominatioTt of a regular chairperson,
whichever is earlier."
'S A t s a t t h u e te r s e l i e n v a o n r t d p e r r o v to is io h n a v in e t c h l e e a S r t a d tu is te t s in c a t r i e o n b s e in b g it w ins e e e rt n e d th u e n d r e e r s p cl o a n u s s i e b i ( l v it ) ie o s f o S f ta t D u i t r e e l c 4 to o r f a th n e d
Chairperson and to prevent any overlap of functions provided in ttre Statutes, it is, therefore,
necessary to delete clause (15) of Statutes 17 of the Statutes of NITi and IIEST-shibpur
as
under:-
"ln the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the Chairperson by reason of his
death, resignation, or otherwise or in the event of thi"Choiiprrron being unable to discharge
his functions owing to absence, illness or any other cause, the Direct\r may discharge the
functions assigned to the Chairperson under siction l6 of the Act.',
I th^-*,.-
\^\_
\^
(Col. (Dr.) Ashish Badola) (Shri Binod Bawri)
Secretary, Board of Governors Chairperson of BoG
& Registrar, NIT Agartala NIT Agartala
Page 2 of 2