
--- Page 1 ---
Minutes! 18" BOC NITA
27"" March 2011

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799055

ial se fe af eat

 

Minutes of the Eighteenth Meeting of the
Board of Governors
held on 27 March 2011

Al Conference Room of NIT, Agartala

SRR AR He tee te ote fe eo ae af ae a ee tee eee a ef ef oe ae fe a oe aa ae eae eae a ae ae a ae a

The Eighteenth meeting (a special meeting for 3" Convocation of the NIT Agartala) of
the Board of Governors of the Institute was held on 27" March 2011 at 3:00 pm in the
Conference Room of NIT Agartala, Tripura.

The following members were present in the meeting,

(1) Prof, PLN. Singh i Chairman, BOG of NIT Agartala.
(2) Prot! PK. Base t Director, NIT Avartala & Member,
(3) Mr. Sriram Taranikantt, LAS. : Commissioner & Secretary ta the Gevi. of

Tripura. Department of Higher Education,
Representative of the State Gavernment.

(4) Mr. Ro IK. Bandyopadhaya i Deputy Secretary, Ministry of HRD, Govt. of
India, Representative of the Joint Secretary,
Ministry oT HRD. Govt. of India,

(5) Mr. Tapash Roy : DGM, CESC, Kolkata, Member,
: Representing Alumni.
(6) Prof, AK. Sarkar ’ 2 Member, Representing Faculty, — NIT,
‘ Agartala.

(7) Mr. P.N. Das > Member, Representing = Faculty, NET,
Agartala.

(8) Dr. D. Bhattacharya : Registrar, NIT. Agartala & Secretary, BOG,
NITA,

Prof. S.K. Ray, Prof. G. Barua, and representatives from the AICTE, UGC could not
allend the meeting due to their prior engagements and were granted leave of absence.

Prof. Alok K, Gupta, Allahabad University, Member, representing large, medium and
small scale industries could not attend the meeting due to late arrival of his Flight. However, he
will attend the proceeding of the 3" Convocation of NIT Agartala to be held on 28" March, 201 1.

Prof. P.N. Singh, the Chairman of the BOG, NIT Agartala presided over the meeting.
. Ais aan ( ane

See eae . Page | of 2


--- Page 2 ---
Minutes! 18" BOG! NITA
27'" March 2011

At the outset, Prof, P.K. Bose, Director, NIT Agartala welcomed all the members. He
specially thanked Mr. Sriram Taranikanti, [AS., Commissioner & Secretary to the Government of
Tripura, Department of Higher Education, Mr. R.K, Bandyopadhaya, Depuly Secretary, Ministry
of HRD. Government of India and Mr, Tapash Roy, DGM, CESC, Kolkata for attending the
meeting depite of their busy schedule.

The Chairman, BOG, NIT Agartala again welcomed all the members present in the
meeting and inviled the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussion on the apenda point.

litem: Yo consider the minutes af the Eighth meeting of the senate held on 2 7 March 2011
at 12 noon.in the Conference Room of NIT Agartala for approval and confirmation.

The Registrar & the Secretary, BOG of NIT Agarlala read out the Bio-Data of Prof.
Raghunath Anant Mashelkar, FRS, CSIR, Bhatnagar Fellow, National Chemical Laboratory, Pune,
who has in his credit over 250 publications in Peer Review Journals, 10 Patents at International
level and 19 patents at National level. He has published more than 20 Books on Chemistry and
Chemical Engineering. Twenty-Eight Universities have honoured him with honorary doctorates,
which included University of London, University of Salford, University of Pretorta, University of
Wisconsin-Milwaukee and Delhi University. Visva Bharati Santiniketan (2006) honoured him

with Desi Kottama,

Dr. Mashelkar has received numerous other Awards and recommendations. These
included prestigious “S.S. Bhatnagar Prize (1982)"", “Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Medal for
Excellence in Science by Indian National Academy (INSA) (2001)” and “Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar
Award by the Indian Science Congress Associate (ISCA), Calcutta (2001)".

Dr. Mashelkar was honoured by the President of India with Civilian Honours of Padma
Shri in the year 1991 and Padma Bhushan in the year 2000 in recognition of his contribution to

nation building.

Considering his exceptional outstanding and illustrious contributions in the field of
Scientific and Industrial Research, the Board of Governors, NIT Agartala resolved to approve the
recommendation of the 8" SENATE Committee meeting held on 27" March, 2011 for Conferring
of the Honeris Causa-D. Engineering to Padmabhushan Raghunath Anant Mashelkar, FRS in

Convocation being held on 28-3-2011.

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks lo the Chairs.

—firseng Oo

Dire the cheaeye .

(Dr. D. Bhattacharya) (Prof, P. N. Singh)
Secretary Chairman
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar NIT Agartala

NIT Agartala

Page 2 of 2
