
--- Page 1 ---
44'h Fc1 Minutes
February L5,2024lN|TA
t
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
West Tripura, Pin: 799046
* )F ri:1. rl. rt {r
*tinites of tfie 44tn *Leeting of tfie
lFinance Committee
freff on lFefira"ary 15, 2024
ttlrrtltlttlltttllltlttllltl
The Finance Committ ee,44tt'meeting of National Institute of Technology, egurtala was held
on February 15,2024 at 1 1 :00 am at NIT Transit House, New Delhi through hybrid mode.
The following members were present in the meeting:
(l) :
Shri Binod Bawri Chairperson of FC & BoG, NIT Agartala
(Online mode)
(2) Prof. (Dr.) S. K. Patra : Director, NIT Agartala.
(3) :
Smt. Veena Dunga Dy. Secretary Q.{ITs), MoE, Dept. of Higher
Education, Govt. of India
(Representative of Joint Secretary (NITs), MoE,
Dept. of Higher Education, Govt. of India)
:
(4) Sh. Anil Kumar Director (Fin), IFD, MoE, Govt. of India
(Representative of JS&FA, MoE, Govt. of India)
:
(s) Prof. (Dr.) S. Bhaumik Professor, Mechanical Engineering Depdrtment,
NIT Agartala.
(6) Col (Dr.) Ashish gidola : Member Secretary of FC & Registrar, NIT
Agartala.
The Chairperson of Finance Committee, NIT Agartala presided over the meeting and
welcomed.all the members. The Chairperson then invited the Registrar to initiate discussion
on the agenda items.
Item No. 44.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of 43'd Meeting of Finance
Committee, NIT Agartala.
The Finance Committee conhrmed the Minutes of 43'd Finance Committee meeting.
Item No. 44.2: To receive information on the financial Status of the Institute as
on January 31,2024.
The Committee noted the detailed financial status of the Institute as on January 31,2024.
+"
a
L of2

--- Page 2 ---
qqth rC/ Minutes
February L5,2024/NtTA
t
Item No. 44.3: To consider the Annual Accounts of the Institute for the financial
year 2022-23 and Separate Audit Report of the Indian Audit and
Accounts Department, Tripura.
The Finance Committee approved the Annual Accounts and Separate Audit Report for the
financial year 2022-23.
Item No.44.4: To consider the procurement software for different labs of the
Institute.
The Finance Committee recommended the procurement of softwares for various departments.
-
Item No.44.5: To consider the processing of non-teaching staff recruitment for
Group-B and Group-C positions.
The Board noted the proposal of EdCIL. The Secretary of Higher Education, Govt. of Tripura
and the Chief Engineer, Govt. of Tripura recommended that proposal from NIELET could
also be obtained as NIELET are also foraying into staff recruitment. The Board consented
that NIELET office at Delhi be approached for the proposal for impending recruitment. In the
event, the same is not as per process of central agencies, the proposal of EdCIL be accepted
for implementation.
Item No.44.6: Any other item with the permission of the Chair.
Not applicable.
The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chair.
\-\ \^- \--i
\
r,Olrrl^at
(Col. (Dr.) Ashish Badola) (Shri Binod Bawri)
Member Secretary of Finance Committee Chairperson of FC & BoG
& NIT Agartala
Registrar, NIT Agartala
2 of2