
--- Page 1 ---
Minutes! 24" BOG! NI'TA
25" Aupust 2012

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
WEST TRIPUNA, PEN: 799055

sf fe ae ah a ap fe of:

 

MINUTES OF THE 24° MEETING OF THE
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
HELD ON 25" AUGUST 2012

At Conference Room of NIT Transit House

The 24" meeting of the Board of Governors of the Institute was held on August 25, 2012
at 12:30 pm in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House, Kunjaban, Agartala.

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman of the Board of Governors (BOG), NIT, Agartala, presided
over the meeting and introduced the new Registrar (1/C), Mr. Sumanta Chakrabarti to the
members of the Board of Governors (BOG).

The following members were present in the meeting :

(1) Prof. P. N. Singh : Chairman, BOG of NIT Agartala.
(2) Prof. P. K. Bose : Member, Director of NIT, Agartala
(3) Shri Shailendra Kumar : Dy. Secretary (Technical Bureau}

MHRD, Govi. of India. (Representative
of Joint Secretary (Tech), MHRD, Govt.
of India).

(4) Shri Satpal Sharma : Under Secretary, IFD, MHRD, Govt. of
India (Representative of Financial
Advisor, MITRD, Govt. of India)

(5) Prof. Nitindra Nath Som Member, Former Professor of Jadavpur
University,

(6) Prof. Sekhar Datta : Member, Professor of Tripura Teal tuie of
Technology.

(7) Shr P. N. Das : Member, Representing Faculty, NIT,
Agartala,

(8) Shri Sumanta Chalcrabarti : Secretary, Registrar (1/C), NIT, Agartala

Dr. Bindu Dey, Advisor of Biotechnology, Department of Biotechnology, Govt. of India
and Shri Tridip Chakraborty, Principal, Women’s Polytechnic, Government of Tripura,
could not attend the meeting.

The Chainnan and the Director welcomed Shri Shailendra Kumar, Dy. Secretary, MHRD
and Shri Satpal Sharma, Under Secretary, MHRD and also the other members of the

BOG.
Vee Page | of 7 Fruamsh :
sy


--- Page 2 ---
 

Minutes/ 24" BOG/NITA
25 August 2012

The Chairman then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussion on apenda
items. ,

Meeting.

The minutes of the 23" Board of Governors meeting of NIT Agartala, held on May 20",
2012 were circulated {o all Members for comments/observations. The Minutes of the 23"
BOG was confirmed with the following observations :

The recommendation of the 19" Finance Committee meeting held op 25" August, 2012,
as regards to Sports Complex and purchase of Vehicles are noted, and be taken for

consideration for further action.

Item No. 24.2: Action taken on the decision of the 23" meeting of the Board of
: Governors held on 20" May 2012.

The Action Taken Report were noted in the meeting with the following
observations/suggestions :

On Agenda Item No.23.4 (SL No.2} : The Chairman read out a letter from MHRD
No.F.3-12/2010-IFD dated 24" August, 2012, addressed to the Chairman, BOG, by Shri
A.N. Jha, Joint Secretary (FA), drawing the attention of the Board about awarding the
Work Order for construction of Sports Complex at a cost of Rs.54.108 crores
disregarding the prior intimation of this Ministry. It is stated that due to shortage of fund,
the MHRD would not be able to support the construction of the proposed Sports Complex
in NIT Agartala, MHRD representatives suggested that the work be stopped immediately
by withdrawing the Work Order from the contractor.

The majority Members of the Board opined that Sports Complex construction is very
much necessary for an Institution like NIT Agariala having the students strength of about
3000 and likely to exceed 4000 or more in a year or so. On careful discussions and
having regard of the need.of the Sports Complex, ihe majority of BOG members resolved
that despite the apprehension of MHRD and a contrary note on this matter withdrawal of
contracts at this moment will create legal problems and unnecessary extra expenditure.
Hence, the Works could be completed in a phased manner by prioritizing the sequence of
works and limiting the cost to Rs.10 to 15 crores per year and the cost be met from the
fund allotted to on-going proj ects which are behind the time schedule. However, it was

not acceptable to MHRD representatives.

After considering all pros and cons and happenings of the fatal accidents of students
during the last four years, the majority of Board members resolved to continue the
construction of Sports Complex in a phased manner limiting the cost to Rs. 10 to 15
crores per year by priontizing the work schedule. The MHRD representatives expressed

ain


--- Page 3 ---
Minutes! 24" BOG/NITA
25" August 2012

 
  

their dissent to this decision. The MHRD officials suggested that NIT Agartala should

approach the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports, Government of India to provide

necessary fund for this project. Further, the MEIRD representatives opined that the works

of Sports Complex may be proceeded only alter getting no-objection from MHRD and

ex-post approval has to be obtained for the expenditure already incurred due to

- consultancy fees, mobilization cost, work already done and the compensation therein
from MHRD. :

Item No. 24.3: To consider the recommendation of the Sarangi Committee
regarding teachers qualifications, Career Advancement
Scheme, recruitment rules etc,

BOG accepted the Sarangi Committee Reports in principle. However, in case of any
specific matters related to Pay anomalies, implementation of Career Advancement
Scheme. and Recruitment Rules, the matter wil] be placed before the Special Committee
constituted by MHRD vide letter No.33-7/2011-TS-II] dated March 14, 2012 and
decisions of the Special Committee will prevail in such matters.

Item No. 24.4: To consider proposal to pay Special Allowances to Dy. Director,
Deans, Associate Dean, Chief Warden and Associale/ Asstt.
Warden in NIT Agartala.

BOG approved the proposal and the same be implemented. However a clarification from
MHRD on the issue of Associate Deans / Asst. Wardens and Chief Warden be obtained
as designations of such functionaries vary from institution 10 institution though duties and

 

responsibilities are similar in nature.

Item No. 24.5: To consider the superannuation age upto 60 years for all
categories of regular Non-Teaching employees of NIT Agartala
instead of 58 years.

The BOG approved the proposal as per Government of India orders.

Ttem No. 24.6; To consider the minutes of 24"" Building & Works Commillee
meeting of NIT Agartala.

The BOG approved the decision taken in the 24" BWC meeting held on August 17,
2012, and accorded administrative approval with the following observations :

1. Agenda Item 24.3 of 24" BWC meeting : It was suggested by the MHRD
representatives to approach CPWD for taking up the construction of 1500 seat
capacity Boys’ Hostel with a stipulated conditions for completing the works
within eighteen months along with Liquidated Damage clause. If there is a need,
the penalty clause for over running agreed time be introduced in the contract. If

Wwe Page 3 of 7 tooo


--- Page 4 ---
Minutes! 24" BOG/ NITA
25" August 2012

CPWD does not comply with such condit ions, tendering process as followed by
the Institution (NIT Agartala) for other works be adopted, BOG accorded the
Administrative Approval for construction of 1500 seal capacity Boys’ Hostel.

2. MHRD officials suggested to start e-tendering process in future at Jeast for some
items and local NIC centre may be approached for supports.

‘ Item No. 24.7: To consider the minutes of 19" Finance Committee meeting of
NIT Agartala.

The BOG approved the decisions taken in the 19" Finance Committee mecting held on
August 25, 2012, and accorded financial approval & expenditure sanction,

Item No. 24.8: To consider the contract appointment of Dr, Harwant Singh
Chhabra in the Department of MBA, NIT, Agartala and Prof,
Saroj Kumar Mukhopadhyay in the Department of Production
Engineering.

Regarding contractual appointment, the BOG agreed in principle the proposal and

suggested to constitute a Three Member Committee headed by Prof. Nitindra Nath Som

and two other members of this Committee will be nominated by the Chairman, BOG, An
advertisement for engagement of such faculties is to be floated in the NITA website,

Item No. 24.9; Items approved by the Director or Chairman submitted for
ratification of the Board.

(A) The minutes of 18" Finance Commitee meeting held on 20" May 2012 ai 11
am in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House, Kunjaban, Agartala,

This item was withdrawn as the proceedings of the 18" Finance Committee has

been looked into and confirmed under Item No.24,7.
(B) = Yo consider the foreign visit by the faculty members.
Ratified.

Action Taken by the Director:

(A) Telephone bill reimbursement facility was extended to the following officers/
staffs of NIT Agartala.

Ratified and approved the proposal of providing telephone reimbursement facility ”
@ Rs.500/- per month to the Chairman, Library Committee.

Ww

\


--- Page 5 ---
Minutes! 24" BOG! NITA
25" Aupust 2012

   

Item No. 24,10: Any other item with permission of the Chair

Addl. Item No. 24.101: To consider the recommendations of Selection
Committee (for interview) for appointment of Associate
Professor and Assistant Professors af NIT’, Agartala.

The recommendations made by various interview committees in respect of interviews
“held on 18", 19", and 20” August 2012 at Conference Room of IIT Extension Centre,
Salt Lake City, Kolkata, were placed before the Board after opening the sealed envelopes
during the meeting. As per recommendations of selection (interview) comrilices, the
Board approved the appointments in sequence, as per available vacancies, with additional
increment benefits of the following candidates mentioned against cach case:

SI. No. Name of the Designation [| Remarks |
candidate po
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (As per prescribed Pay Band and |
GP for Asstt. Prof): G8 eer nee “i

 

 

 

ee
i _| Dr. Anirudha Asstt. Professor. [ AGP — Rs.7000/- in PB-3 and 1]
Bhatiacharya ' additional increments.

| (GEN) a .
23 Sri Shankar Prasad | Asstt, Professor TAGP — Rs. 6000/- in PB-3 with 2

| Ghosh (Gen) additiona] increments. On contract
basis against permanent vacancy. He
can be regularized subject to the
completion of Ph. D. within 5 years
otherwise increment will be stopped
and service will be discontinued. Pay
_ | protection as per rules. ; |
3. Ms Jayashree Das Asstt. Professor | AGP ~ Rs.6000/- in PB-3 with 2
(SC) | additional increments. On contract |
: basis against permanent vacancy.
She can be regularized subject to the
completion of Ph. D. within 5 years
otherwise increment will be stopped
and service will be discontinued. Pay
protection as per rules. _
Sri Biman Kumar Asstt. Professor | AGP — Rs.6000/- in PB-3 with 2
Roy (GEN) ’ | additional increments. On contract
basis against permanent vacancy. He
can be regularized subject to the |
completion of Ph. D. within 5 years |
' otherwise increment will be stopped
and service will be discontinued, Pay
i oe protection as per rules.
5: Ms Shova Gupta Asstt. Professor | AGP — Rs.6000/- in PB-3 with 2
(GEN) additional increments. On contract

basis against permanent vacancy.

 

 

 

   
   

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 7 Pyninghr


--- Page 6 ---
  

Minules/ 24" BOG/ NITA
25" August 2012

‘pularized subject to the |
completion of Ph. D. within 5 years
otherwise increment wil} be stopped
and service wil] be discontinued. Pay

 

 

 

 

6. Dr. Subhadeep
Bhattacharya fo 18000,
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS (As per prescribed Pay Band and GP for Assit, rol).
1. Dr. Suvra Prakas Asstt. Professor | AGP - Rs.7000/- in P-3 and 7]
Mondal additional increments,

 

2 Dr. Biswajit Saha

 

Prof): ; saa
i. Sri Ashim Saha

me pi —— eS

MASTERS OF BUSINESS OF
GP for Asstt. Prof):
| 1. | Dr. Anirban Dutta

(OBC)

]

[s

and GP for Asstt. Prof.):

COMPUTER SC. & ENGINEERING (As p

‘| Asstt. Professor |

Asstt. Professor

TAGP ~ Rs.6000/: in PB with 3

| completion of Ph. D. within § years

i . Fs ster Casscel -
CHOOL OF HYDRO INFORMATICS ENGINEERING (As per prescribed Pay Band

 

additional increments, On contract
basis against permanen| vacancy. He
can be regularized subject to the

otherwise increment will be stopped
and service will be discontimed. Pay

AGP — Rs.7000/- in PB-3 and 7
additional increments,

 

1 | Dr. Mrinmoy —
| Majumder

 

 

Assit. Professor

| additional increments.

 

Prof.):

 

 

Department of Chemical Engineering (As per presc

1. Dr. AjoyManna | Asstt, Professor

ribed Pay Band and GP for Asstt.

The BOG approved the proposal to
engage Dr. Ajoy Manna as Assistant
Professor in the AGP — Rs.7000/- in
‘PB-3 with 9 additional increments.

 

 

Department of Physics

 

\e

Department of Electrica) Engineering _ .
Lo run the academic curriculum, ihe selection commitiee unanimously recommended Ms
Nabamita Goswami, Ms Nivedita Laskar and Sri Bhaskaran Barman as contractual
faculty and they may be offered consolidated monthly salary @ Rs.32,000/- (Rupees
fhirty two thousands) and the period of engagement is 6fsix) month,

fo run the academic curriculum, the selection committee unanimously recommended Dr.
Sitangshu Bhattacharya, Dr. Manas Kumar Paul and Dr. Nilotpal Ghosh as contractual
Jaculty and they may be offered consolidated monihly satary @ Rs.45,000/ (Rupees
Forty-five thousands) and the period of ‘engagement is one year.

Page 6 of 7

 


--- Page 7 ---
 

Minules/ 24" HOG/ ITA
25" Aupgnsi 2012

Addl. Item No.24.10.2: Vo consider the Guidelines regarding ihe presenee of
Respective HODs in the Selection Board (Commitice)
Meetings for Recruitment of Faculfies of the various

Departments.

The BOG suggested to follow the existing and prevailin g norms, |

Addl. Item No. 24.10.3: To consider the faculty position Viz., distinguished
Visiting Professors, Honorary Professors, Professors
(on contract) ov term basis to make linkages of NIT,
Agartala with the Industry and R & D. Organization
(Public and Private) more effective and productive.

The BOG approved the proposal as per the Sarangi Commitee R eporL.

Addl, Item No. 24.104: To consider implementation of CAS to the regular
Faculty members of NIT Agartala,

 

The BOG approved the proposal for adopting the CAS according to 5" CPC guidelines
and as per the Minisiry of HRD order No. F.33-7/2011-TS-Ill dated March 14, 20}2.

To consider ihe guidelines for utilization of TEQIP-H,

Addl. Item No. 24.10.58:
Win'ancial Support.

The BOG approved the’ proposed guidelines for utilization of TEQIP-II, Fimancial
Support (non-procurement expenditure) as per MOU between MHIRD and NITA and as
suggested in the meeting of TEQUIP to Financial Support Committee held on August 24,

2012.

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chairs.
5 5

} nese

(SumantaChakrabyrti), (Prof. P.N. Singh)
Secretary, Board of Gdvernors Chairman, Board of Governors
& Registrar (I/C), NIT Agartala NIT Agartala

.

Page 7 of 7
