
--- Page 1 ---
Z FOS ae RPS ZAM. RTI ERR FHTRR
d AMG MLL roses IU eee Sore mine Aue NCIS GEN UN TAK KR
7 a ee rte Sa AO Nee gente aper a

Oo O’,
Qort
Q Oo

131 BOY
DIAN

: iin Beororet ore 3 ait.
: 2 eet aaron a i
a

APoIe USAT TT WEST BENGAL - AR 840462

 

 

4

: MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

¥ An agreement made and entered into this day of |4_ day of Now.. , 2024 between National Institute
of Technology, Agartala, represented by the Registrar (herein after called "NITA" which expression,
unless repugnant to or excluded by context, shall include its successors-in office and assigns) of the one

{part and the “NITA beneficiary” is limited to only reguiar faculty members and non-teaching staffs and ©
their legally dependent family members.

4 AND

ES

DISHA EYE HOSPITALS

 

Mr. Jayanta Bhowmick, Chief Operating Officer, authorized signatory of

PVT LTD (ALL UNITS), Barrackpore, Palta, Newtown, Durgapur, Siliguri, Burdwan,

Berhampore, Asansol.Sherapuly, Mourigram, Mecheda, Behala Gariahat, Barasat, Sinthi

hes

 

ro,

deaf.

Registrar
nit, Agartala

      

  

BARRACKE

aS, a

 

=

 


--- Page 2 ---
See eS ae Pee

Dn
Arambag, VIP, (Reg. Address : 88(63A) Ghoshpara Road Barrackpore Kolkata 700120) of the

second part,

WHEREAS Disha Eye Hospitals Pvt Ltd has agreed to give the treatment in eye (Ophthalmology)

facilities to serving NITA Beneficiaries.

General Services: Ophthalmology

Specialized Services: Cataract / Glaucoma, Retinal Medical Retina / Surgical Retina, Cornea-
excluding corneal transplant, Oculopiasty & Adnexa, Strabismus.

WE, THEREFORE, THE PARTIES HERE TO AGREE AS FOLLOWS:-

1. The hospital will charge NIT Agartala beneficiaries or his/her dependent family members for
OPD,day care and IPD patients within the ceiling limits as described and contained in the prevalent
CGHS Kolkata rates, 2024 and subsequent changes in that rate thereafter. If rate for any item of
investigation or procedure is not included in the CGHS rate chart then bills for such would be raised as

per hospital rates with discount @ 5%.

2. All IPD and package treatment for regular employees and their dependent family members of
NITA will be cashless but OPD treatment will be on payment basis. In case of contractual
employees (excluding family members) all kind of treatments will be on payment basis. For both

kind of employees billing will be generated as per the CGHS rate mentioned in clause no:1.

2. It shall, in no event, charge an amount more than the amount agreed to whose details are given in the
Annexure -1 from any NITA beneficiary for a period of 03 (Three) years from the date of signing of
this agreement or until such time the prescribed rates are revised by the Central Government which ever

is earlier.

3. It shall not discriminate in the provisions of the facility in any manner whatsoever against the NITA
beneficiary receiving treatment in the hospital as compared to any other patient of equal status and

coming for treatment in the hospital.

4. In emergency, the hospital will not refuse admission or demand for an advance money from the NITA
beneficiary or his family members and provide medical treatment facilities to the patient on production
of valid NIT Agartala ID Card and a referral letter from notified NIT Agartala authority may not be
insisted upon from him. However, after admission in Hospital, the hospital authority will inform the
notified NIT Agartala authority, who will send the referral letter through the patient or his/her
representatives within 48 working hours from the time of admission, failing which it will be treated as
normal patient. In case of family members, the NIT Agartala medical identity card issued by NIT
Agartala authority will be produced by the patient or may be verified from the NITA website.

‘ [Nngo
Registrar
NIT, Agartala

 

 

 


--- Page 3 ---
5

5, The Hospital shall provide access to the financial and medical records for own assessment and review

by medical and financial auditors ofthe NITA as and when necessary and requirement shall be final.

6. Any liability against the hospital arising due to any default or negligence in providing or performance
of the medical services shall be borne exclusively by the hospital who shall alone be responsible for the

+

defect in rendering such services.

7, In any case of complaint of overcharging, the NIT Agartala may after factual enquiry de-recognises
the hospital, whose decision shall be final, without any notice and this shall be without any prejudice to

any other action to be taken including recovery of overcharged amount.

8. During In-patient Department (IPO) treatment of the NITA beneficiary, the hospitals would not ask

the beneficiary to purchase separately medicines from outside.

9, On production of NITA Identity Card and a valid referral by the NITA, mentioning the bed
entitlement, the hospital would provide the cashless treatment facilities to the NIT beneficiaries
subject to the condition that after commencement of the procedure/treatment, the NITA Beneficiaries
is required to submit Medical form -97 under provision of CS (MA) Rules 1944/Medical-2004 Form
Set (for CGHS beneficiary) duly filled in on completion of the procedure/treatment.

10. For in-door patients after treatment and discharge of the patient the hospital ( or treated branch) will
raise bills towards cost of treatments as per CGHS rates and submit the bills directly to the office of the
Registrar NIT- Agartala, Jirania, West Tripura, Tripura Pin:799046. NITA will process the bills for
payment to the hospital concerned within 30 (thirty) days from the date of receiving the hard copies..

11. Any other services provided by the hospital to the NITA beneficiaries not included in the package
deal within the purview of CGHS or not, but essential for recovery from illness or NITA beneficiaries
given consent for better services or product, payment for such services be realized by the hospital from

the NITA beneficiary before discharge from the hospital.

12. This Agreement contains the entire terms and conditions between the two parties and nothing
outside this Agreement shall be valid and binding. This Agreement can be modified or altered only on

written agreement signed by both the parties.

13. The Agreement shall remain in force for a period of 3 three years, but can be extended with mutual

consent of both the parties.

14, Should the hospital get wind up or partnership is dissolved, the NIT Agartala shall have the power

to terminate the agreement but termination of the agreement shall not relieve the hospital or their heirs

. NS a)
Registrar
NIT, Agartala

Licence No,-
482N/97

   

A CKPOR

ee, ——

 

 
     


--- Page 4 ---
and legal representatives from the legal liability in respect of the services provided by the hospital

during the period when the Agreement was in force.

15. The NIT Agartala shall have lien and reserve the right to retain and set off against any sum which
may from time to time be due to and payable to the hospital here under any claim, which the NIT

Agartala may have against the hospital under this or any other agreement.

16. The first party and second party shall be at liberty at any time to terminate this agreement by giving
one month notice in writing to each other for breach of any of the terms and conditions of this agreement
and the decision of the both the parties in this regards shall be final. However, each side will be given

opportunity to present its position before any decision to terminate the agreement is taken.

17. In the event of any question, dispute or difference whatsoever at any time arising under the
conditions of Agreement or in any other manner under this Agreement or in any way relating there to
or the true meaning or interpretation of any of the provisions thereof (except as fo any matters for which
the specifically provided for in the condition of Agreement) the same shall be referred the decision to
an Arbitrator as per the provisions of Arbitrator and Conciliation Act, 1996 and all disputes will be

subject to Agartala jurisdiction.
18. The hospital shall pay all expenses incidental to preparation and stamping of this agreement.

19. All notices and references here under shall be deemed to have been duly served and given to the
hospital if delivered to the hospital or their authorized agent or left at consent by registered post to the
address stated herein before and to the Director, NIT Agartala or sent by registered post or left at his

office during office hours on any working day.

20. The Agreement shall be prepared two copies in original and one copy each shall be kept by the
hospital.
21. For any query or information regarding NITA beneficiary, office of Dean (FW)/Registrar may be

contacted and the details are given in the www.nita.ac.in.

 

In witness whereof, the Registrar on behalf of the NIT Agartala and above named ‘Hospital’ have here

into set respective hands the day and year first above written.

Registrar
NIT, Agartala

 


--- Page 5 ---
UNS

Se peer beet eaaes

  
     
  

      
 

    

Sigeliy Col (De) Asien eee DISHA EYE HOSPITALS PVT LID
Registrar, NIT Agartalh
a 88 (63A) GHOSHPARA ROAD, BABRAGE
KOLKATA 700120, ‘: Licence No.-
aN 482N/97 dS
SSERRCORES
1. Witness 1. Witness

Signature We the bees alnta Signature“t ws C) a Be
Name Dr. MrFhan hey (pem Fy t}e) Name “pu GA t DEE

Address NIT Ry on ben la. Address ge( 340 Guise rep tv
| OS Ban nanpores CEES
2. Witness Bo . 2. Witness
‘ Prsbon bile : *
Signature ° Signature Maik Aas
Name Pee Name Meant
Derk - cf Wed kK bas

Address qqyy Res. Address $8(634) Ghbshoto purr Road

Rorviack pow—
ANNEXTURE

DISHA BRANCH ADDRESS
NAME
1. Barrackpore 88 {63A), Ghoshpara Road, Kolkata- 700120. West Bengal

. Palta (Annx) A unit of Barrackpore

2
14, Grand Trunk Rd, Sheoraphuli, West Bengal
3, Sheoraphuly 712223

4. Durgapur RD— 100, Palasdiha, Durgapur - 713208
2 Vil.+P.0. Duila. P.S. Sankrail, Mourigram, Near Mourigram Rail Station, Howrah, West Bengal
5. Mourigram
711302
277/4 6.1. Road 2nd Floar, Sinthi, Near Ghosh
Para Bus Stop, Kolkata, West Bengal 700036
7. 11 No. Railgate, Barasat, Kolkata, West Bengal 700126

700059
West Bengal 700034

10. Gariahat 4th floor Citi Mart Building, 169, Rash Behari Ave, Kolkata, West Bengal 700029
69/A, LALOIGHI PLAZA FLOOR 3+4+5,
RABINDRANATH TAGORE ROAD (NEAR IT OFFICE}, Berhampore,

 

 
    
 

 
 
  
 

 

 

    

   
      
  
   
 

         
  

11. Berhampur

  

West Bengal 742161

i2,_Bardwan
44, Rajarhat
15, Arambagh

16. Mecheda Santi Novel Health LLP Campus, Tamluk Road, Santipur, Pin - 721137

a
| 47. Asansol —_|_ 9/190, ANAND APARTMENT, APCAR GARDEN, ASANSOL, Kumarpur,, Barabant, West Bengal , 713304

   
 

  
    

Licence No.-
ae 482N/97

LOB
ARRACKPORE:

 

   
   

 
