
--- Page 1 ---
 

 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MoU)

BETWEEN

 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

And

 

of Tech’

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY GUWAHATI

Place: UTS/pitAcARTALA Date: 9 [on [25°


--- Page 2 ---
Memorandum of Understanding
between
National Institute of Technology Agartala
and

Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati

National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA), Tripura and Indian Institute of Technology
Guwahati (IITG), Assam, an Institute of National Importance, incorporated under the Institute of
Technology Act 1961, as amended up-to-date and established in 1994, having its office at Guwahati,
signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in the field of Student Exchange and Research
Collaboration on 11.11.2017. Expanding the collaboration further, both the institutions have hereby
agreed to enter into this Memorandum of Understanding for the purpose of offering exchange
programme of final year study of B.Tech programmes at IIT Guwahati followed by direct admission
into PhD programmes at IIT Guwahati to the students selected among the top 10% of pre-final year
BTech students of NIT Agartala as per details stated below.

Scope:
The scope of collaboration on academic activities in this Memorandum of Understanding is of the

following categories:

For selected UG students of NIT Agartala.

* Summer Internship Programme at the Academic Departments and Academic Centres of IIT
Guwahati,
Provision of pursuing final year of study of BTech programme at IIT Guwahati under

exchange programme,
Provision of direct admission to PhD programme at IIT Guwahati.

NITA and IITG have agreed to facilitate the top 10% of the pre-final year students (in the 6" semester)
of NITA to seek direct admission to the PhD programmes of IITG, and enable the successful
candidates to pursue 7“ and 8" semesters of their BTech programmes at IITG, according to the

following terms and conditions.

Terms and Conditions:
1. NIT Agartala invites applications from their Sixth Semester BTech students who are in the
top 10% of academic performance and who are inclined towards research and intend to take
direct admission to PhD programmes of IIT Guwahati.

 

 

 


--- Page 3 ---
  

. NIT Agartala shortlists the received applications and sends to I[T Guwahati in the month of

 
 

February/March for further processing.

 
 
  
 

  

. In March/April, the Academic Departments/Centres of IIT Guwahati conducts selection

process and selects the students provisionally for direct admission to PhD programmes of IIT

 
 

Guwahati subject to their successful completion of BTech degrees with minimum CPI/CGPA
of 8.0 in a 10-point scale at NIT Agartala. The number of students to be selected discipline
wise / department wise will be decided by ITT Guwahati.

 
 
    
 
  

. The selected candidates will join IIT Guwahati in the mid of May and carry out their Summer

 
 

Internship research work under the appointed mentor (a faculty member of the Academic
Department / Centre of IITG) till the first week of July. The assessment and grading of

 
 
  

summer internship work will be done by the mentors and the marks/grades will be sent to NIT
Agartala through the Academic Affairs Section of IIT Guwahati.

 
   
 
  
 

  

. Based on the satisfactory performances in the summer internship programme, these students

will be allowed to do their 4" year of study of B.Tech programmes at ITT Guwahati according

 
 

to the curriculum of IT Guwahati under the category of exchange students (Visiting

 
 

Students). The earned credits will be transferred to NIT Agartala and upon completion of final

 
 

year, NIT Agartala will award B.Tech degrees as per the rules of NIT Agartala. These students
are NOT entitled for the award of BTech degrees from IIT Guwahati.

 
   
 
   

  

. At the end of the 4" year, if these students / graduates have secured final CPI/CGPA of 8.0 or
above in a 10-point scale (as per grading system of NIT Agartala), then based on their letter

 
 

of requests for joining PhD programmes of IIT Guwahati in the Month of May/June, they will

 
 

be selected for admission into the PhD programmes of IIT Guwahati.

 
 
    
 

. Ifastudent does not perform well in the courses of the 4" year of B.Tech programme at IIT
Guwahati, the student will be transferred back to NIT Agartala along with credits earned.

  
   

  

This MoU will come into force upon affixing of the signatures of the representatives of both

institutions and will remain in effect for five years, This MoU may be renewed upon its expiry, with

 
 

the agreement of both partner institutions.

  

 


--- Page 4 ---
 

If either partner institution wishes to terminate the MoU before the end of five-year period, it must
notify the other institution not less than six months prior to the expiry of the MoU.

This MoU or its renewal and the actions taken under it may be reviewed at any time. Modifications

may be made by mutual agreement and any amendment or extension to the agreement may be
formalized by the exchange of letters between the two parties.

Signed by/on behalf of

Director

ational Insitute e8 Techno lgey (Agartala
Prof. S. K. Patra
«freee / Director
National Institute of Technology
Agartala.

Witness |:
oY. woe arat
SAR? Prof. Rajib Saha
we dara sea (Wares are)
} Cc Dean (Academic Affairs).
* : Ror.
‘sa Lite! Professor in Civil Engineering Dept,
* Y  gasingel arrecar
NIT Agartala

Witness 2: :

Or. Manish Pal
Professor & Chairman, AA & IR
NIT Agartala.

Date: \% [em [as

Vere Libot

Director are wrfererer
Indian InstitRR@Y PARI AR ahati

Witness 1: Perris IY
Iroc. SuMpNA DUTTA
= % SL

Witness 2: iL

Vrof eV KRIS HOV A
Dean ot Acade mre Courses -

 
