
--- Page 1 ---
 

Sonoma State University, California, from USA (hereinafter “SSU”) For the Transfer Program
as One-Plus-One Master's in Engineering and Computer Science.

PART - I: RECITALS

About NITA: - The NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA herein referred as

“NITA’, is one of the 31 (thirty-one) National Level Technical Institutes setup by the Govt. of
India. The Institute’s mission is "To help to improve the economic development of the country
particularly the North-East states and also the public systems, through pursuit of excellence in
technical education, research, consultancy and training". Presently the Institute offers elght UG

courses and PG courses in several fields along with Doctoral Fellowships. This Institute is
autonomous under NIT being Act passed by the Parliament.

The lash green campus along with its massive infrastructure is well connected to the rest of

About Sonoma State University: - Sonoma State University (SSU, Sonoma State, and Sonoma)

is a public comprehensive university, part of the 23-campus California State University (CSU)
system. The main campus is located east of Rohnert Park, California, United States,
approximately 50 miles (80 km) north of San Francisco. Sonoma State offers 92 Bachelor's

degrees, 19 Master's degrees, one Doctoral degree (Doctor of Education), and 11 teaching
credentials.

 
 
 
 

The Department of Engineering Science at SSU offers Bachelor of Science in Electrical
Engineering (Specialization in Electronics and Communications) and Master of Science in

7


--- Page 2 ---
housing, as well as co-op, internship, and practical training, as allowed by the US
immigration rules.

PART - IV: TERMS AND TERMINATION

This Agreement shall be in force for a period of five years from the date of signing, and shall be
renewable by mutual consent at the end of that period for a second five year period. This
Agreement may be terminated prior to that time on condition that written notice of intent to

terminate is provided by the initiating university to the other university at least one year

prior to termination. This Agreement may be amended at any time by the mutual written
consent of the cooperating universities.

However, any such termination or amendment will not be effective until end of the academic
term then in progress and will not adversely impact the transferability of students enrolled in
the transfer program prior to the termination of this MOU.

The following parties have executed this MOU as of the dates set forth below:

won ji —
hielo ect 0 t aries
2

(Prof. H K Sharma) at. weer arare erat (Prof. Farid Farahmand)

Director, Prof. H. K. Sharma Engineering Department Chairman,
freee / Director ‘iin eon

NIT Agartala, National Institute of Technology Sonoma State University, Under State

An institute of National impottanee, University of California

Jirania, West Tripura, INDIA United States of America

Date: Date: 8/12/2019_

Witness:

1. Prof. Shivakumar Mathapathi
Adjunct Faculty

Sonoma State University

 
