
--- Page 1 ---
    
    
     
 
   
    
    
  

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
MoU

BETWEEN

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA

and

eSESS
eum MDS IndoCan

Connecting Businesses

MDS IndoCan Inc.

  
   
     
 
          

FOR

ACADEMIC, RESEARCH
COLLABORATIONS & STUDENTS
EXCHANGE PROGRAMMES

Place: §\T AGARTALA Date: Bi -O23- 2024

PN eA yo


--- Page 2 ---
Memorandum of Understanding
a
e=e= MDS IndoCan

Connecting Businesses By and between

   

National Institute of Technology Agartala
and
MDS IndoCan Inc.

This Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) is entered into on al leaps 2-4. by and between:
The National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA, hereafter)
AND
The MDS IndoCan Inc (MDS IndoCan Inc, hereafter)

Objectives of the MoU

The objective of this cooperation is to foster collaboration and facilitate the advancement of

knowledge on the basis of reciprocity, best effort, mutual benefit and frequent interactions.

Areas of Cooperation and Collaboration

To facilitate the exchanges and collaborative works including joint projects, joint programs,

students exchange with reputed institutes in Canada and NITA in the following broad areas

e Infrastructure and Transportation
e Urban planning and Architecture
Engineering for all disciplines
Economics and Social Sciences
Nano Technology
Skill Development
Hydrology
Waste Water Management and Waste management
Health Science and Technology

Disaster Management

 

ea)
NIT AGARTALA


--- Page 3 ---
e Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
e Renewable Energy and Sustainable Development Goals

e Cyber Security and Quantum Computing

b. Joint supervision of PG and PhD students by Experts of MDS IndoCan Inc and NITA
faculty

G: Facilitate conducting international conference, seminar, symposium in any of the sectors

mentioned above.

d. Work closely with the activity where the Government of India and Government of Canada

have bilateral cooperation and mutual targets like SDGs.

e. Besides, NITA and MDS IndoCan Inc agree to explore the possibility of engaging in the

following areas of collaboration:

e Exchange of intellectual know-how and resources.

e Partnership in innovation and entrepreneurship driven opportunities and resources.
e Sharing of scientific-technical network and infrastructure resources.

e Partnership of collaborative consulting and research projects.

e MSME and training through higher education,

3. Confidentiality
a. Individual faculty involved at NITA and MDS IndoCan Inc agree to hold in confidence all

information/data designated by the parties as being confidential which is obtained from
either party or created during the performance of the MoU and will not disclose the same

to any third party without written consent of the other party.

The above confidential clause under this MoU excludes information/data possessed by
either party before entering into this MoU or independently developed and/or information
already available through public domain, or information which is required to be disclosed
by any law or disclosure of such information is directed by a court, tribunal or any

competent authority.

4. Term and terminations

a) This MoU shall be valid for five (5) years unless extended by mutual consent of both the
Parties. A Party willing to extend the MoU shall give a written notice of its intention to

i)

 


--- Page 4 ---
  

extend, at least 60 days prior to the expiry of this MoU, which may be accepted by the other
Party within a period of 30 days from the receipt of such notice.
This MoU may be amended or terminated by mutual written agreement of the parties at any

time.

Either party shall have the right to terminate this MoU with 60 days prior written notice to
other party.

The termination of the MoU whether mutual or unilateral, shall not affect obligations as of
the participant under any Research Agreement. Confidentiality clause obligation as referenced

in clause 5 shall survive such termination.
MISCELLANEOUS

All intellectual properties including any patent. copyright, design, etc. (hereinafter referred to
as the “IPs”) which are developed jointly or which arise out of activities undertaken jointly
by the Parties under this Agreement will be owned on the basis of extent of contribution made
by each party (hereinafter referred to as “Joint IPs”). A Party shall own all the rights in the
IPs arising solely out of its own activities carried out using its own resources under this

Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “Sole Party IPs”), Each Party shall be entitled to file

applications for protection of its Sole Party IPs. In respect of joint IPs, applications can be

filed for protection by joint consent only, and the expense incurred on patent filing will be

borne by both parties.

Sharing of authorship in publications arising out of or in connection with joint activities shall
be authored jointly by the Parties in accordance with their respective contributions to the
publication. Publications arising out of or in connection with the activities undertaken under
this Agreement solely by a Party using its own resources, shall be authored by the said Party.
Each Party before publishing its Sole Publication shall provide the other Party a draft of
manuscript before submitting for publication and the other Party shall inform within Forty
Five (45) days from the date of receipt of the draft, if it wishes to protect any IPs and in case
such other Party decides to pursue protection of IPs, the Party proposing publication shall not
submit said manuscript for publication, for a further period of three (3) months to allow the
other Party to protect its Sole Party [Ps. This period may be extended by mutual consent of
both the Parties.

 

3 NIT AGARTALA


--- Page 5 ---
. The signed MOU signifies only a strong intent and commitment towards the goals specified
in the document. Both the institutes will have to follow all the rules/ regulations and obtain
appropriate sanctions for implementing all the joint activities.

. Ifthe disputes are not resolved mutually then the municipal courts (Civil Courts) in Agartala
Tripura India and the municipal courts (Civil Courts) in Ottawa Canada will have the

jurisdiction to resolve the dispute / disputes.

6. Signed in duplicate

This MoU is executed in duplicate with each copy being an official version and having
equal validity. By signing below, the parties, acting by their duly authorized officers, have

” caused this Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to be executed, effective as of the day

and year first above written,

Signed by/on behalf of \ .
yy
C ( - a\ oP
2

\ (la a
ay 135\""

 

Prof. Sarat Kumar Patra Mrs. Mohua Dutta
Director, MDS IndoCan Ine

National Institute of Technology Agartala
A. gy Ag

/ Director
National institute of Tech

nology
aT neuf Aww
Witness |: AAD Witness 1:

a. xara DR SUVROMANAL DUTTA
Bhaumi
Prof. oe eee ma’ 31 -O3- goay.
Dean (Academic Affairs)
cua Rae
NIT Agartala.
Witness 2: A. Witness 2:
any
r. Manish Pal
: & Chairman, AA &
NIT Agartala.

 

eK
NIT AGARTALA
