
--- Page 1 ---
 

Memorandum of Understanding

Between

¥

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur

cd areal faeraaaTsie

And

National Institute of Technology Agartala

 


--- Page 2 ---
Memorandum of Understanding
between
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
and
National Institute of Technology Agartala

 

Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, hereinafter referred as /T Jodhpur, having its office at NH-62
Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur District-342030 (Rajasthan) and represented by its Director, and the
National Institutes of Technology Agartala, hereinafter referred as N/T Agartala, having its office at
Agartala-799046, Tripura and represented by its Director, agree on offering direct admission to Ph.D.
Programmes by IIT Jodhpur for meritorious B.Tech. Students of National Institutes of Technology
Agartala.

1. Aim

This Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) aims at offering direct admission to Ph.D. Programmes of IIT
Jodhpur for meritorious B.Tech. Students of National Institutes of Technology Agartala. The students
having CGPA of 8.0 or above and in top 10 ranks in their class after seventh semester will be offered direct
admission to PhD programme without any need to appear and qualify GATE or written examination. The
selection could be done by a quick online/in-person interview, or direct admission offers can be made.
Moreover, MoU also aims to encourage the faculty members of NIT Agartala and IIT Jodhpur to write joint
research projects.

This MoU does not bind either of the two parties legally or financially.

2. Terms and Conditions
The institutes agree that this MoU does nof constitute a formal legal agreement, giving rise to any legal
relationship, rights, duties or consequences. The following aspects shall hold:

1. Eligibility Criteria for students of NIT Agartala for Direct Admission to PhD at ITT Jodhpur
a. Top 10 rank in their respective batch of the program at NIT
b. CGPA of 8.0
Application Fee: One-Time Application Fee (Non-Refundable): Rs. 5000/-.

Other Aspects:

a. In addition, interested and eligible NIT Agartala students can also be considered for early admission
to the Ph.D. programmes after their 5” semester and may be offered internship opportunities, if
they meet the above-mentioned eligibility criteria after their fifth semester. For the same, NIT
Agartala students can apply for early admission to PhD with possibility of a project/internship
during their last two semesters at ITT Jodhpur.

The Direct Ph.D. offers will provide options for both M.Tech. and Ph.D. degree at the end of their
graduation in addition to Ph.D. degree alone.

     

NIT AGARTALA

x
ta y

 

 


--- Page 3 ---
 

i

Collaboration will be encouraged in the domains/disciplines of mutual interest between faculty from
NIT Agartala and IIT Jodhpur to write joint project proposals.

For early PhD program, students will be provided hostel accommodation in IIT Jodhpur Campus.
These students will be permitted to participate in research/project/internship activities.

Validity: This MoU shall come into force from the date of signature of the MoU, and shall remain
in force, unless it is mutually agreed otherwise.

Termination: The MoU may be terminated in writing by one of the parties giving a written notice
to the other of at least 6 months. Any ongoing and scheduled activity at that time shall not be affected.
Amendments to this MoU may be made only by mutual agreement in writing by the Directors of
the Institutes,

Dispute Resolution: Where a problem or dispute arises between the Institutes, they shall seek to
resolve and settle the matter amicably by direct discussion between themselves to the best of their
endeavours. If the matter cannot be resolved in this manner, the Directors of the Institutes shall
examine the matter, and pronounce the decision; this decision shall be binding on the affected
individuals.

Coordinators: For the purposes of this MoU, the Coordinators from the Institutes shall be appointed
from time to time, the details of which shall be shared with the other institute.
Septembo.
IN WITNESS HEREOF, this MoU is executed on the gr aay ofthe month of ___in the year 2024 in
Jodhpur by and between the /ndian Institute of Technology Jodhpur and the National Institutes of
Technology Agartala for and on behalf of the two Institutes by:

Signed by/on behalf of

foi Avgrenoatpate

Prof. Sarat Hameed agar at Prof. AvfvoshAtimsh KeuranlA garwal

National Insipg pT EAIS soarala Indian Ing

National Institute of Technology

ome
ut. Toft et
aang sree (sire oat)

Dean (Academic Affairs)
wasneal See sre whet Pe Beery ater
NIT Agartala yy ante ot Technology Jodhpur

Witness 1: Witness 1:

Witness 2:

Dr. Manish Pal
_ Froteaogr & Chairman, ARGIR

 

=

rs
NIT AGARTALA
