
--- Page 1 ---
v$q ffiFrel Tierq errr{ftrT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
*r,-nnmr/ AGARTALA -7ss 046fi$T/ rRrpuRA)
vqr/No. F. NITA. 70(9-D EAN-AA& r R)/MO U/r L S I 20 1 9 I I Rqm/ Date :W0212023
4rqgqyNormrcarrr*
NIT Agar-tala has renewed its Memorandum of Agreernent (copy enclosed) on 2810112022 with ILS
Hospital, Agarlala for a period of I year, with possibility of further extension fbr 2 years.
All regular employees and their dependents are now eligible to receive rnedical treatment at ILS
Hospital through this agreement by presenting a valid NITA identity card and referral from the NITA
Health Centre. as perthe conditions specified in Clar-rse l0 of the agreement.
In emergency cases. NITA beneflciaries and their farnily mernbers can receive treatment without a
referral from the Health Centre upon presentation of a valicl NITA identity card, but the hospital must
infonn the Health Centre and receive a referral within 24 hours, as outlined in Clause 4 of the
agreement.
The submission of referral with the hospital is mandatory requirement for processing of medical
clainrs. ifany.
Tlris issure with the approval of the Competent Authority.
{>#
I
Ftnftq/ Registrar
\"{srdfr cFr{ildr / NIT Agartala
ftrfr/ To
All Corrcerned
sfrftfr/ Copy to
l. The PS to Director, NIT Agarlala, for kind information of the Director,
2. The A11 Dean(s)/All HoD(s), NIT Agartala.
3. The All Dy. Registrar(s)/All Asstt. Registrar(s), NIT Agartara.
4. The MO (i/c), NITA Hospital.
-5. All Sectional Heads, NIT Agartala.
6, Mr. I(arnal Kanti Paul, System Administrator to r-rpload it in the Institute Website
,ffi?
gtersPrq
q{onf& oFr{ilrTT / NIT Agartala
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, .lirania, West Tripura, pin: - 199046
Tel. No. 2546630 /6629, Fax. No. 2546360, Url :- www.nita.nic.in

--- Page 2 ---
 

 

 

 

' Certificate No.
Certificate Issued Date
Account Reference
Unique Doc. Reference
_ Purchased by
Description of Document
iH Property Description
' Consideration Price (Rs.)

First Party

Second Party

Stamp Duty Paid By
Stamp Duty Amount(Rs.)

@

INDIA NON JUDICIAL

Government of Tripura

e-Stamp

IN-TR12840634314224U
28-Jan-2022 11:37AM

: NONACC (SV)/ tr12000404/ AGARTALA/ TR-WTR

SUBIN-TRTR1200040424702016701429U

ILS HOSPITALS AGARTALA

Article !A-5(2) Agreement including a higher Agreement
NA

0
(Zero)

NIT AGARTALA
ILS HOSPITALS AGARTALA

ILS HOSPITALS AGARTALA

200
(Two Hundred only)

  

Dr. Ashish Malakar
Chief Operating Officer
iLS Hospitals, Agartala.

0000647281

j


--- Page 3 ---
+
MEMO UM OF AGR MENT
An agreement made and entered into this day of 28ft day of January, 2022
between National Institute of Technolory, Agartala, represented by the
Registrar (herein after called "NITA" which exprerssion, unless repugnant to or
e*cluded by context, shall include its successors-in oflice and assigns) of the
one part and the "NITA benefici ary" is limited to only regular faculty members
and. non-teaching staffs and their legally dependent family members.
AND
Mr. Ashish Malakar, Chief Operating Officer, authorized signatory of ILS
Hospitals, Agartala located at Capital Complex, Kunjaban, Agartala, Tripura -
700110, a unit of GPT Healthcare Private Limited, JC-25, Sector-III, Salt Lake,
Kolkata (hereinafter called 'Hospital' which expression unless repugnant to or (
excluded by context, shall include its legal representativeness successor and
*-i
assigns) of the second Part. V
J0
WHEREAS ILS Hospitals, Capital Complex, Kunjaban, Agartala, Tripura , a r\
unit of GPf Healthcare Private Limited, JC-25, Sector - III, Salt Lake, il
g
Kolkata, had agreed to provide treatment facilities to serving NITA
Beneficiaries.
Jd
WE, THEREFORE, THE PARTIES HERETO AGREE AS FOLLOWS:-
1. The hospital will charge NIT Agartala beneficiaries or his/her dependent H
family members for IPD patients within the ceiling limits as described
and contained in the prevalent CGHS Guwahati rates, 2Ol4 and
subsequent changes in that rate thereafter as there is no CGHS rates
prescribed for Agartala. If rate for any item of investigation or procedure
is not included ih the CGHS rate chart then bills for such would be
raised as per hospital rates with discount@ L5%.
2.It shall, in no event, charge an amount more than the amount agreed to
whose details are given in the Annexure -I from any NITA beneficiary for
a period of 03 (Three) year from the date of signing of this Agreement or
,ntit such time the prescribed rates are revised by the Central
Government which ever earlier.
3. It shall not discriminate in the provisions of the facility in any manner
whatsoever against the NITA beneficiary receiving treatment in the
hospital as compared to any other patient of equal status and coming for
treatment in the hospital.
4. In emergency, the hospital will not refuse admission or demand for an
advice fiom the NITA beneficiary or his family member and provide
medical treatment facilities to the patient on production of valid NIT
ID Card and a referral letter m notified NIT authority
not be insiste owever, r m1ss10n 1n
ospl ,theh ospltal authority wil the notified NIT Agartala
authority, who end the referral letter the ent or his her
representa S within 48 working hours rom e o SS1ON,
failing which it will be treated as normal patient. In case of familY
members, the NIT Agartala medical identity card issued by NIT Agartala
authority will be produced by the patient.

--- Page 4 ---
2
The conditions of emergency are as under:-
Acute coronary syndrome (coronary Artery By-pass.
(a) 9r1r,l
Percutaneous it"r" Luminal Coronary Angiography) including
Myocardial Infraction, Unstable Angina, Ventricular Arrhythmias,
Supra Ventricular Tachycardia, Cardiac Temqolade, Acute Left
Ventricular Failure/Severe Congestive Cardiac Failure, Accelerated
Hypertension, Complete Heart Block and Stroke Adam attack, Acute
Aortic dissection.
(b) Acute Limb Ischemia, Rupture of Aneurism, Medical and Surgical
shock and peripheral' circulatory failure.
(c) Cerebral Vascular Attack-stroke, sudden unconsciousness, Head
injury, Respiratory failure decompressed lung disease, Cerebro-
fvflnirrscal Infections, convulsions, Acute Para$sis, Acute Visual loss.
(d) Acute Abdomen such as Acute Appendicitis, Acute Pancreatitis, Acute
Renal Colic, Acute Intermittent Porphyries etc'
I
(e) Road Traffic Accident/with injuries including fall.
ffi
(0 Acute poisoning.
n
(g) Acute Renal Failure.
Acute abdomen in female including acute Obstetrical and
(h)
Gynecological emergencies.
(i) Heart Stroke/Heart Exhaustion.
0) Burns of all kinds.
(k) Any other disease/ condition which the treating doctor considers life
threatening.
5. The Hospital shall provide access to the Iinancial and medical records for
own assessment and review by medical and financial auditors of the
NITA as and when necessary and requirement sha1l be Iinal'
6. Any liability against the hospital arising due to any default or negligence
in providing or performance of the medical services shall be borne
exciusively by the hospital who shall alone be responsible for the defect
in rendering such services.
. In any case of complaint of overcharging, the NIT Agartala may after
T
factual enquiry derecognizes the hospital, whose decision shall be final,
without rrttice and this sha1l be without any prejudice to any other
action to" 1b1e.y taken including recovery of overcharged amount'
g. During In-patient Department (IPD) treatment of the NITA beneficiary,
the hospitals would not ask the beneficiary to purchase separately
medicines from outside.
g. Serving NIT personnel and their dependents can avail facilities of doctor's
consultations and investigations in outpatients department (OPD) of the
hospital. Consultation fees will be charged as per hospital rates.
However, for investigation the hospital will g:e 2Oo/o discount on hospitai
rates for such investigation. NITA will reimburse as per the CGHS rates
towards ILS and rest of the amount would be borne by the beneficiary.

--- Page 5 ---
'7
10. On production of NITA Identity Card and a valid referral the
titlement
os wo
treatment s subject to the condition
commencement of the procedure /treatment, the NITA
Beneficiaries is required to submit Medical form -97 under provision of
CS (MA) Rules L944/Medical-2004 Form Set (for CGHS beneficiary) duly
filled in on completion of the procedurcf treatment.
1 1. For in-door patients after treatment and discharge of. the patient the
hospital will raise bills towards cost of treatments p". CGHS rates and
""
submit the bilIs directly to the office of the NITA. xire will process the
bill for payment to the hospital concerned within 30 (thirty) days.
12. Any other services provided by the hospital to the NITA beneficiaries not
included in the package deal within the purview of CGHS or not, but
(
essential for recovery from illness, payment'for such services be realized
by the hospital from the NITA beneficiary before discharge from the 77
Y
hospital.
J6
r)
13. This Agreement contains the entire terms and conditions between the (
two parties and nothing outside this Agreement shall be valid and +
binding. This Agreernent can be modified or altered only on written J
agreement signed by both the parties.
fi
14. The Agreement shall remain in force for a period of 3 (three) year, but
can be extended with mutual consent of both- the parties.
15. Should the hospital get wind up or partnership is dissolved, the NIT
Agartala shall have the power to terminate the agreement but
termination of the agreement shall not relieve the hospital or their heirs
and legal representatives from the legal liability in respect of the services
provided by thq hospital during the period when the Agreement was in
force.
16. The NIT Agartala shall have lien and reserve the right to retain and set
off against any sum which may from time to time be aue to and payable
to the hospital hereunder any claim, which the NIT Agartala *.y have
against the hospital under this or any other agreement.
17. The first party and second party shall be at liberty at any time to
terminate this agreement by givin[ one month notic. i1 writing to each
other for breach of any of the terms and conditions of this agree[rent and
the deeision of the both the parties in this regards shall be Iinal.
However, each side will be given oppbrtunity to pres-ent its position before
any decision to. terminate the agreement is taken.
18. In the event of any question, dispute or difference whatsoever at any
time arising under the conditions of Agreement or in any other manner
under this Agreement or in any way relating thereto or the true meaning
or interpretation of any of the provisioni thereof (except as to any
matters for which the decision is specilically provided for in-the condition
of Agreement) the same shall be referred for d.ecision to an Arbitrator as
per the provisions of Arbitrd.tor and Conciliation Act, Lgg6 and all
disputes will be subject to Agartala jurisdiction.
19. The hospital shall pay all expenses incidental to preparation and
stamping of thi-s agreement.
20. All notices and references hereunder shall be deemed to have been duly
served and given to the hospital if delivered to the hospital or their

--- Page 6 ---
,
authorized agent or left at consent by registered post to the address
stated herein before and to the Director, NIT Agartala or sent by
registered post or left at his office during office hours on any working
day.
21. The Agreement shall be prepared two copies in original and. one copy
each shall be kept by the hospital.
,
In witness whereof, the Registrar on behalf of the NIT Agartala and above
named Tlospital' have hereinto set respective hands th" d.y and year
first above written.
-]Jff3[-- 1P^-o-h*oa11 a.
SignqE{,,$5ba R e i g is. i s h t $ r a i.: r a l i t l a c ci i a : i,r ;-r signed by , _ i D 3 r. ' i A l* sh ii is l? h M j: a f l , a : f t ta r r i:
NIT Agartala,
1. Witness 1. Witness
Dlll,o*
Signature 2s Signature
Name F(, Af r/ Kr '' tfl= (o \ HA Name
N l:r A4*-rfl-t *
Address Address t&,
2. Witness 2. Witness M r-
Signature Signature
Name O*U*, J u.t*.. Name 1^,t o r,tdl K p D € r9vn76-1
Address Address lLS HotPlTnU r*t*afobT -