
--- Page 1 ---
 

adta senha wears texrare

indian institute of Technology Hyderabad

 

Memorandum of Understanding
Academic and Research Collaboration
Between
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
And
Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, Telangana, India

 

 

National Institute of Technology, Agartala (NITA) and Indian Institute of Technology,
Hyderabad (IITH) have agreed to the following protocols governing their collaboration on
academic and research related activities.

Scope:

The scope of collaboration on academic and research activities in this Memorandum of
Understanding is in the following categories:

e Academic and Research collaboration in the areas of mutual interest.

e Exchange of academic information, Scholarly information, materials and publications based
on mutual agreements.

e Exchange of students and faculty.
Conducting joint seminars, workshops and other academic meetings.

Students Exchange:

Pursuant to the agreement for academic exchange, NITA and IITH, will exchange students
according to the terms laid out in Annexure 1. It is desired by both parties that there will be
significant flow of students in both directions based on mutual agreements.

Research Collaboration:

Faculty from both Institutions will collaborate in the supervision of exchange students and in joint
research in disciplines of mutual interest. All such joint research activities will be governed
by the terms laid out in Annexure 2.

Admission of top 10% of the students of NITA direct PhD Admission at ITH

NITA and IITH agree to facilitate top 10% of the students (at the end of 6th semester) of NITA,
with CGPA higher than 8.5, to seek admission to direct PhD programme of IITH, and enable
successful candidates to pursue their 7" and 8" semester of their BTech programme at [ITH.
according to the terms laid out in Annexure 3.

 


--- Page 2 ---
Commencement, renewal, termination and amendment
This MOU will come into force upon affixing of the signatures of the representatives of the
partner institutions and will remain in effect for five years. This MOU may be renewed upon its

expiry, with the agreement of both partner institutions.

If either partner institution wishes to terminate the MOU at the end of five years period it
must notify the other institution not less than six months prior to the expiry of the MOU.

This MOU or its renewal and the actions taken under it may be reviewed at any time.
Modifications may be made by mutual agreement and any amendment or extension to the
agreement may be formalized by the exchange of letters between the two parties.

For

t OLicetrO
*

 

21\ ve \>s ~

National Institute of Technology, Indian Ins tute of Technology,
Agartala Hyderabad.
+
wirae at.ca. afer
Signee rear
Prof. B.S. Murty
oy eter gare TI Director
Pr of 4. K. Sharma IIT Hyderabad
Preven / Director
Witness ational Institute of Technotoav

Agartala

ls A apo

= g., ’

r eects re _—_
G oD: v; ry
% Mp

 
 
 

De

a a
LUpippe .

 


--- Page 3 ---
Annexure lI

1. Students under the student exchange programme will be classified as special exchange
students. Special exchange students will be permitted to take courses on credit/audit, as well
as participate in research activities/project work.

2. In any case, the consent of the teacher/project supervisors/ research supervisors 1s
required. Such consent will take into account among other things whether the student has
pre-requisites for the course/project.

3. Neither institution will require admission or tuition fees of exchange students under this MOU
4. Course credits will be determined by the home institution based on its curriculum.

5. The number of students and time duration will be worked out on a case to case basis.

6. Participants may not spend more than one year normally in the exchange programme.

7. Participants will be subjected to the rules and regulations of the host institution

Selection and Nomination

The nomination of students should be by the end of the 6" semester. The student nomination
should be accompanied by:

e Curriculum Vitae.

e Statement of aptitude from a member of student’s department/school.

e A specific outline of the programme of students of the host institution and a statement of
objectives of the students.

When a nomination is forwarded by the home institution, it is presumed that the sending
Institution considers the student suitable for the proposed program and consents to send the
student if selected by the host institution.

The host institution will evaluate the nominations and determine their suitability for selection
under the student Exchange Programme.

Where the exchange student is pursuing a research or implementation project as part of the
BTech, MTech, MSc or PhD (or equivalent) degree programme, the host institution will provide a
suitable faculty member to jointly assist (along with supervisor in the parent institution) the
exchange student in formulating research project or jointly supervising the exchange student in
the event that a research project has already been identified.

The host institution will inform the home institution of any academic or other problems that may
arise during the period of student's residence in the host institution. The host institution will take
appropriate action under its established policy and procedures, in consultation with the home
institution to deal with such problems.

    
  
     
  
  

ae

ce

AS

    

ate 2,
CHND, %

ot "Oo
A

oY
Ty Pe

  

<tal q

QS

*
= :

 

/


--- Page 4 ---
Annexure 2

1. Proposals for collaborative research work under this Memorandum will be submitted with the
prior approval of the Head of each institution, or his / her nominee.

2. Each institution will nominate one of its members as its representative in charge of the
cooperative programme. Individual programme of work under this Memorandum will be jointly
planned and conducted by the nominees of both parties.

3. Progress of work of any individual programme will be reviewed and approved by designated
authorities of both parties.

4. The final approval of any project will depend on the availability of guaranteed support funds.
5. Neither NITA nor IITH will be held responsible for any liability to the party, and neither
party shall be required to purchase any insurance against loss or damage to any property due to

activities to which this agreement relates.

Every collaboration will have its own agreement/ contract which address issues such as IPR,
funding pattern, disclosure of information etc.

 


--- Page 5 ---
Annexure 3

Admission of top 10% of BTech students of NITA to Direct PhD Programme at IITH

Norms for top 10% of BTech students of NITA seeking admission to PhD Programme at
ITH.

a)

b)

C)

d)

e)

g)

h)

Top 10% of the BTech students from NITA who have a CGPA greater than 8.5 at the end of
5"" semester, will be eligible to apply for Direct PhD at JITH.

Selected students will move to IITH at the end of their 6'" semester at NITA for a
Summer internship at IITH.

They will be taken into the PhD program at IITH based on an interview conducted at the end of
the summer internship.

Credits earned during first year of PhD programme at IITH, shall have equivalency to the
credits needed for the 4" year of the BTech programme at NITA. The credits will be
transferred to their parent institution to award BTech degree.

The student should complete additional 18 credits during the second year of their stay at IITH.

The candidate would complete the comprehensive viva within 4 semesters after joining
IITH.

The students selected for admission to PhD programme are eligible for HTRA for five years,
after completing their first year of stay successfully at IITH. Students from NIT Agartala
having a CGPA 8.0 and above (preferably 8.5 and above) will be eligible for award of
HTRA without the requirement of GATE.

If a student does not perform well in the courses at IITH during their first-year stay, the
student will be transferred back to the parent institution along with credits earned.

 


--- Page 6 ---
10.

LI.

12.

Specific Operation aspect agreed to by NITA and ITITH

NITA will make an internal announcement to all students who are in the top 10% of their
class in their 6" semester (based on the CGPA calculated until the 5™ semester) and
encourage such students to apply for admission into a Direct PhD programme at IITH to
those Department(s) in which they meet the eligibility norms for regular PhD programme,
through online portal between 1° March and 30" March every year.

NITA will encourage and recommend such students to opt for summer internship of IITH at
the end of their 6" Semester.

NITA also will disseminate the contact details of such eligible students to the Dean (Acad),
IITH, to enable to Dean to bring the PhD application schedule to these students

Selection for the Direct PhD program for these students at IITH will be conducted in July at
the end of the summer internship based on an interview by the respective department.
Application for the Direct PhD program is not a guarantee for final selection. Dean (Acad),
IITH will forward the list of students selected for Direct PhD admission to NITA and also
inform the respective students.

NITA will permit these students (selected for direct PhD programme) to pursue their final
year of their BTech programme (7 and 8" semester) at IITH.

NITA will provide some flexibility in the curriculum for these students to facilitate them to
complete the credits to be earned towards the award of the BTech degree. Detailed planning
of the courses to be taken at IITH will be jointly decided by the faculty advisor of the
student at NITA and the guide-designate at IITH.

Credits earned by the students at the end of the first year of stay at IITH will be transferred
to NITA. NITA will accept the credits transferred and award the BTech degree to such
successful students if they satisfy the credit requirements of NITA.

The student will pay the tuition fee to NITA during their 1“ year of stay at IITH. After
successful completion of the BTech requirement, the student will pay the tuition fee
appropriate for PhD scholars as per regulations of IITH.

These students should earn a minimum CGPA of 8.0 in each of the first two semesters at
ITH, to become eligible to continue in the direct PhD programme. Otherwise, the
students will be transferred back to NITA along with credits earned.

These students are not eligible for campus placement through IITH at the end of their first
year of stay at ITTH.

These students shall come under the preview of the guidelines given in the PhD ordinances
and Regulations of IITH once they complete the requirements for the BTech degree.

For candidates who fail to complete the Comprehensive viva-voce exam, the option to

conyertto S program as per regulation of ITH will be provided.
rN _
oe NN LUWW/WAWVV%Y%Y% LO

4°: : Tr =
fe Lt ‘ - >
FESS 6 TEL HNO, “>.
— ‘et
~-_ * i — O 4
O, (SX

     
   
