
--- Page 1 ---
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Receipt of Online Payment of Stamp Duty

NON JUDICIAL

Receipt Number : d425ce36718c9603fc00
Receipt Date : 30-Mar-2025 12:32:11 pm
Receipt Amount : 100/-
Amount In Words : One Hundred Rupees Only

Document Type : Agreement or Memorandum of an
Agreement

District Name : Dhanbad

Stamp Duty Paid By : TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION IN
EXPLORATION AND MINING
FOUNDATION

Purpose of stamp duty paid : MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

First Party Name : TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION IN
EXPLORATION AND MINING
FOUNDATION i}

Second Party Name : NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA

GRN Number : 2501485672

 

 

This Receipt is to be used as proof of payment of stamp duty only for one document.The use of the
same receipt as proof of payment of stamp duty in another document through reprint,photo copy or
other means is penal offence under section-62 of Indian Stamp Act,1899

  


--- Page 2 ---
  
  

Rain, Sai he
Rajib Saha ee a a

 
 

eis t eee. are Prof.

   
      

a ae oe |

 


--- Page 3 ---
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (MoA)

BETWEEN

 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

And

TEXMIiN Foundation

Place: Agartala, Tripura Date: 30-Mar-2025


--- Page 4 ---
 

MOA between TEXMIN Foundation and National Institute of Technology Agartala

Memorandum of Agreement (‘MoA’)

This MoA is executed on 30"day of March 2025
By and between

Technology Innovation in Exploration & Mining Foundation a section8 company established
under the aegis of the National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems (NM-
ICPS) by the Department of Science and Technology (“DST”), Government of India bearing
CIN U73200JH2020NPL015292 and having its registered office at the Institute Innovation
Hub (i2h), 3rd Floor, IIT (ISM) Dhanbad, Jharkhand 826004. (hereafter referred to as the
"First Party" or "TEXMIN").

AND

National Institute of Technology, Agartala is a premier public engineering and research
institution located in Agartala. Established in 2006, recognized as an Institute of National
importance under the Ministry of Education, Government of India. National Institute of
Technology, Agartala is known for its excellence in engineering, technology, and scientific
research. (Hereafter referred to as the “Second Party” or “Host Institute” or “NITA’).

TEXMIN and NITA shall be individually referred to as “Party” and collectively as “Parties”.

WHEREAS TEXMiIN mission is to advance innovation and technology in the exploration
and mining sectors and its core focus areas include initiatives spanning critical and rare
earth minerals (from exploration te extraction), green mining innovations, and 4S mining
(Safe, Smart, Sustainable, and Social Mining). Additionally, TEXMiN emphasizes mineral
exploration, processing, and beneficiation with a focus on incorporating Cyber-Physical
Systems, promotingacirculareconomy , andfosteringothercutting-edgetechnologieswithin the
mining domain to drive sustainable development and innovation.

AND WHEREAS the Parties intend to collaborate to establish a state-of-the-art "TEXMiN—
NITA Mining CPS Center of Excellence” ("CoE/Center/ TEXMiN— NITA Mining CPS
Center of Excellence") at NIT Agartala. This Center will focus on developing
CPS(Cyberphysicalsystem)solutionsthatcanbecommercializedtobenefittheminingand allied
industry in the NORTH EASTRN region and provide augmentation in technical skills,
increase capacity building, hands-on training and paid opportunities for Host Institute
candidates as per the TEXMiN / DST, Government of India funding norms.

MOA for Collaboration
TEXMiNand NITAgartal

ch
Prol, Rajib Sons
* Dean (Academi
Professor in Civil Engineering Dept.

 


--- Page 5 ---
 

The purpose of this MoA is to outline areas of cooperation and support. Under this MoA,
signed on 30/03/2025 the responsibilities of both Parties and the general terms and

A. During the term of this MoA, TEXMiIN shall be responsible for the following:

1. TEXMIN will provide financial support for setting up Center for providing Host Institute
researchers and innovators for technology development, startup incubation, and
capacity building-aligned with TEXMiIN's objectives approved by DST under the NM-
iCPS Scheme at NIT AGARTALA.

2. TEXMiIN will nominate a Single Point of Contact (“SPOC") from time to time to ensure
the effective operation of the Center.

3. Annual financial support will be provided to implement various schemes for 4 years,
including (detailed in Annexure B).

« Undergraduate/Postgraduate Fellowships: Five(5) fellowships of INR
10,000/- (Indian Rupees Ten Thousand each) per year.

e Project Grants: One (1) transitional R&D projects funded up to INR 13,00,000
(Indian Rupees Thirteen Lakh) per year.

e Startup Support: Three Entrepreneur-in-Residence (EIR)/ Preincubation/
Consumables grants per year for student, alumni, and Host Institute startups.

4. Financial support of upto INR 6,00,000/- (Indian Rupees Six Lakh each) per year will
be provided for Center operations. This includes up to INR 45,000/- (Indian Rupees
Forty-Five Thousand) per month for a designated center-in-charge.

5. TEXMiN will provide technologies and solutions such as GIS, immersive
technologies, loT, Al/ML, critical minerals, REE and others to undertake commercial
projects in collaboration with Host Institute, based on payment terms determined on a
case-by- case basis.

6. TEXMIN will extend technological and industry support to researchers, innovators,
and beneficiaries associated with the Center.

7. Payment disbursement terms will be as outlined in Annexure A.

8. Center operations mandate has been mentioned in Annexure C.

B. During the term of this MoA, Host Institute shall be responsible for the following:

1. Administrativeandinfrastructuralsupportalongwithrequiredfurniturewillbeprovided for
establishing the TEXMiIN— NITA Center of Excellence, based at NIT Agartala. This
includes dedicated building space with civil work, fixed interiors, air- conditioning,
uninterrupted power supply, and other amenities. A 500-700 Square feet suitable
space, equipped with power and internet will also be provided rent-free.

 
  
  

MOA for Collaboration ‘ Pek ea Sa i
TEXMiNand NITAgartala ©. ! an rn

 


--- Page 6 ---
“

10.

4%.

12.

13.

14.

The CoE will consist of three primary components: a central-in-charge cabin, a
meeting/ideation room, and a lobby area. The CoE shall at all times display the logo
of TEXMiIN, in legible letters at conspicuous position or at any other appropriate places
as determined by TEXMIN.

NITA will be responsible for the set up and operation of CoE; maintenance and
safekeeping of assets and infrastructure under this CoE. Any additional IT-related
infrastructure not outlined in Annexure D will fall under the purview of NITA.

TEXMIN technologies and solutions will be leveraged to address various applications
in mining and allied industries. These technologies may also be used for collaboration
with industries, academic institutions, and research & development organizations,
serving to advance the mining and allied sectors.

The overall governance of the CoE, including the management team, deliverable
monitoring, and driving the project roadmap with all stakeholders, shall be managed
by the Host Institute.

Host Institute will ensure the physical security, maintenance, and upkeep of equipment
and facilities within the TEXMiN— NITA Mining CPS Center of Excellence.

Host Institute, in collaboration with TEXMIN, will actively pursue relevant business
opportunities to ensure the Center's sustainability. The combined expertise of Host
Institute and TEXMiIN will be utilized in areas aligned with the nature and scope of the
work.

Host Institute will use the TEXMIN— NITA CPS Center of Excellence to carry out its
mandated activities, including technology development, capacity building, innovation,
incubation, entrepreneurship, and more.

Host Institute is responsible for providing references and information about the
TEXMIN- NITA Mining CPS~Center of Excellence to industry and prospects. The
content will be mutually discussed and agreed upon in writing.

A single point of contact (SPOC) or center-in-charge will be appointed for managing
the operations of the Center.

The Host Institute before execution of this MoA should provide documentation
confirming eligibility for tax exemption under Section 10(23C) or Section 12AA of the
Income Tax Act.

Training and skill development programs for institutional candidates will be developed,
as mutually agreed by both the Parties in writing.

The hiring process for the center-in-charge and operational staff for the CoE activities
will be initiated by the Host Institute.

To utilize the funds made by TEXMIN as per approved DST/General Financial Rule
(GFR), 2017 and to provide quarterly utilization certificate/ statement of

  

Page 3


--- Page 7 ---
expenditure within 30 days ending a given quarter in the format required by TEXMiN
or as per written request from TEXMIN for the funds provided to NITA whichever is
earlier.

Note: The payment terms have been referred under Annexure A.

C. General terms and conditions:

hs

All the asset (hardware and software) acquired or created under the agreement for
CoE can be used for commercial/industrial projects/consulting/research/educational
purposes with prior intimation to TEXMiN. However, TEXMIN shall not be held
responsible directly or indirectly for acts, omission, results, consequences, outcomes
arising out of the use of CoE’s asset in connection with such projects.

TEXMIN reserves sole rights on the assets created out of grants. Assets acquired
wholly or substantially out of grants given (except those declared as obsolete and
unserviceable or condemned in accordance with the procedure laid down in GFR,
2017) shall not be disposed of without obtaining prior approval from TEXMIN.

DST provides TEXMiN, time to time, under specialized heads viz SC/ST/EWS etc.
Budget may be allocated by TEXMiN to the Host Institute under these heads. In all
such cases, Host institute agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of expenditure
under such heads, and provide Utilization Certificate accordingly.

The grant-in-aid being released is subject to the condition that

(a) A certificate will be submitted by the Host Institute immediately on receipt of the
grant.

(b) A transparent procurement procedure in line with the Provisions of General
Financial Rules, 2017 will be followed-by the Host Institute under the appropriate
rules of the Host Institute while procuring capital assets sanctioned for the purpose
outlined in this MoA .

(c) While submitting utilization certificate/statement of expenditure, the Host Institute
has to ensure submission of supporting documentary evidence with regard to
purchase of equipment/capital assets as per the provision of GFR, 2017.
Subsequent release of grants under this MoA shall be considered only on receipt
of the said documents.

The scope of this MoA shall be strictly limited to the terms and conditions agreed upon
between the Parties. Any changes agreed-upon to this MoA shall be subject to
separate discussion & agreement between the Parties which shall be enforceable and
have an overriding / supplemental effect on this MoA if the same is recorded and
executed as a supplemental MoA

All operations conducted within the CoE shall be under the exclusive control and
responsibility of NITA. TEXMIN shall not bear any responsibility for the day-to- day

  

operations within the CoE, unless otherwis agreed in writing by TEXMIN
‘=
Pro oe ove = f Page 4
* Dean (Academic)
Professor in Civil €

cathe
NIT Agartala. yx
ee

 


--- Page 8 ---
ts

10.

11

42.

Raye flr

Pro

* ‘Dean (Academic) &
Professor in Civil Engineering Dept
NIT Agartala.

 

Marketing: Both the Parties may have joint /co-marketing activities and expenditure
for the same will be done as per prior mutual written agreement for each such event.

Term: This MoA shall be valid for a period of 4 (Four) years from the execution date of
this MoA and can be renewed on mutually acceptable terms and conditions. Clause 2,
11(Termination), 15(Documents Confidentiality & Non-Disclosure), 22(Intellectual
Property), 23(Revenue Generation), 27(Force Majeure) and 28 (Governing Law &
Dispute Resolution) of this Clause will survive even post termination of this MoA. The
term of this MoA shall commence on and continue through the period described above
unless terminated earlier as provided herein. However, the TEXMIN — NITA CoE
established under this MoA shall remain an integral part of NITA except asset created
out of grants and revenue rights generated from CoE post closure of CoE

In case the MoA is terminated due to any reason whatsoever, the assets acquired for
the CoE will be transferred to TEXMIN and should not, without prior sanction of
TEXMiIN, be disposed of or encumbered or utilized for the purposes other than those
for which the grant has been sanctioned.

NITA shall take adequate care towards custody, safekeeping and utilization of access
of properties acquired under this MoA and any cost incurred towards above activities
will be borne equally by the Parties; TEXMiN shall provide the required online/offline
support for running and operating the activities in the CoE.

. TEXMIN shall provide operational and mentorship support as a part of this MoA from
the commissioning of the Center to run its activities. During this period, Center shall
run activities and programs like technology development, capacity building programs,
startup/innovation activities etc. The schemes shall run as per the norms of
TEXMIN/DST and NITA through the Center shall also run similar programs and
schemes.

Termination: Notwithstanding anything contained in this MoA, either Party shall have
the right to terminate this MoA in whole or in part pursuant hereto forthwith if:

a. The other Party commits a material breach of any of the terms of this MoA and
fails to cure such material breach within thirty (30) days after written notice of
such breach.

b. Either Party commits or causes other Party to be in breach of applicable laws.

c. Termination without cause: A Party willing to terminate the MoA, without
cause, shall give a written notice of its intention to terminate, at least sixty ( 60)
days prior to the proposed date of termination of this MoA. The termination of
this MoA whether, mutual or unilateral, shall not affect obligations of any
ongoing activity.

d. Consequences of termination: Upon the expiration or termination of this MoA,
(a) all services to be provided will promptly cease, (b) each of the Party shall,
upon request of the other Party, promptly return or destroy all non-public
Confidential Information received from the other Party in connection with this
MoA (including the return of all information received regarding or in connection
with the provisions of the services), without retaining a copy thereof (other than
one copy for records purposes) and the receiving Party shall promptly notify

Page 5

. Rajib Saha

 


--- Page 9 ---
the other Party with evidence / certificate of returning or destroying the other
party Confidential Information and (c) each Party shall honour all credits and
make any accrued and unpaid payment to the other Party as required
pursuant to the terms of this MoA, and no rights already accrued hereunder
shall be affected.

Notwithstanding anything contained in this MoA, for the purpose of this Clause
11, TEXMIN shall have the sole authority to decide the material breach.

13. In case there is any inconsistency among (i) The MoA (ii) the project proposal of NITA
submitted to TEXMIN, and (ili) any other documents referred to herein (in each case, to
the extent not inconsistent with this MoA), the provisions of MoA shall prevail over the
conflicting provisions embodied in documents referred in point (ii) and (iii) above. If
there is any inconsistency between the documents under point (ii) and (iii) above, the
provisions of documents point (ii) prevail.

14. Entirety:(i) The MoA, and (ii) the project proposal of NITA submitted to TEXMiN, and
(iii) any other documents referred to herein (in each case, to the extent not inconsistent
with this MoA) constitute the entire and only agreement between the Parties relating
to the subject matter hereof and supersedes and extinguish any prior drafts, MoAs,
undertakings, representations, non-comprehensive warranties and arrangements of
any nature whatsoever, whether or not in writing, relating thereto.

15. Representative: the Parties shall appoint a representative each to manage and
oversee the collaboration requirements. Any change of representative of one
Party should be intimated to the other Party within 30 days of such change. The
agreed representatives are as follows:

If to “TEXMIN”, at:

Kind attention: Prof. Dheeraj Kumar
Director, TEXMIN, lIT(ISM) Dhanbad
Location : Dhanbad, Jharkhand - 826004
Cell: +91 94317 11199

If to “NIT Agartala”, at:

Kind attention: Prof. Rajib Saha

Professor and Dean (Academic Affairs), Department of Civil Engineering
Location: NIT Agartala, Tripura, India. PIN: 799046

Cell: +91 9436125024

Prefer i Eninaong Page 6
NIT Agartala.

 

 


--- Page 10 ---
_An escalation matrix defined below must be followed to discuss concerns, i if any:

ESCALATION MATRIX

 
 
   
   

   
  
   

Levels _ForTEXMIN = Mobile = Email Id
by (Name) | 2 (Name) as
Ist stLevel Mohd ‘Danish f 8707896858 | “SoaeNeRtNeESN ‘Suyel Namasudra, PhD - Te91 9707046535. ayelnamas om
_ 2nd Level | Suraj Prakash 8707896858 | ; ceo(@texmin.1 in.in Prof. Ranjan Das Pa #91 9872735899 _fanjandas8\@gmail.com a
3rd Level ae 94317111 99 | | dheeraj@iitism,ac. 3 ot Raji Saha 1491 9436125024 bribe iithber@grailcon
a _ sn Neeson sass

 

16. Documents Confidentiality & Non-Disclosure: Neither Party shall, without the prior
written consent of the other Party disclose to any third party the contents of this MoA
or any information obtained by either Party in performance of or in connection with this
MoA. The Parties agree to take all reasonable measures to maintain the confidentiality
of all such Confidential Information (Defined here in below) which in no event will be
less than the measures it uses to maintain the confidentiality of its own information of
similar importance. However, neither Party will be required to obtain the consent of the
other Party to disclose the existence of this MoA. All Confidential Information disclosed
pursuant to this MoA shall be used exclusively for the purpose for which it was agreed
upon, unless agreed upon by both Parties, in writing. However, that Confidential
Information shall not include any information which a Party can show that (i) it is in or
comes into the public domain otherwise that through breach of this MoA or the fault of
the receiving Party, or (ii) has been lawfully received from a third party without
restriction as to its use or disclosure, or (iii) was already in receiving Party's possession
free of any such restriction before receipt from the disclosing Party, or (iv) was
independently developed by the receiving Party without making use of the Confidential
Information, or (v) has been approved for release or use (in either case without
restriction) by express written authorization of the disclosing Party. The Parties agree
that all information obtained, developed, created, or disclosed including all documents,
data, sensitive personal information, information relating to hardware and software
including its technical specifications, use, pricing, papers and statements of the Parties
shall be considered to be confidential and proprietary information (“Confidential
Information’). This obligation shall survive the termination of this MoA.

17. The Parties acknowledge and agree that the areas of co-operation under this MoA are
being undertaken on a non-exclusive basis and either Party shall be free to enter into
or similar collaborations with other parties in India or elsewhere maintaining the
confidentiality of the Parties.

18. Both Parties agree that they are not liable to each other for any damages including any
special, incidental, consequential, direct or indirect damages arising out of any claims
under this MoA or in connection with it or its subject matter.

19. Nothing in this MoA will be deemed to constitute or create a joint venture, partnership
or other formal business entity or fiduciary relationship between the Parties. Neither
Party shall assert any claim for damages or injury arising from this MoA or reliance on
any of the provisions of this MoA.

a
Prof. Raji Saha Page 7
‘ Dean (Academic) &
Professor in Civil E'
NIT Agartala.

 


--- Page 11 ---
20.

21.

22

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

Royce le

NIT Agartala.

 

Compliances: Each Party agrees to perform its activities in compliance with all
applicable statutes and regulations that are in force at that time including any export
laws and anti-corruption laws.

Each Party undertakes to procure (so far as it is legally able) that they, respectively,
maintain and regularly keep under review on an on-going basis internal accounting
controls which are designed to ensure compliance by the Parties and its respective
directors, officers and employees with the provisions of the applicable Indian anti-
bribery laws.

. Assignment: No Party hereto shall assign or transfer its rights or delegate its

obligations under this MoA without the prior written consent of the other Party.

Intellectual Property: Each Party shall always remain the sole and exclusive owner
of all rights, title and interest in and to the Intellectual Property (“IP”) that it owned or
used prior to entering into this MoA, or that it developed independently out of its own
activities carried out using its own resources outside the performance of this MoA. This
clause shall survive the termination of this MoA. Any IPs generated by the Center or
by the Parties under the terms of this MoA shall be jointly owned by the Parties and
the cost of registration shall be equally borne by both the Parties.

Revenue Generation: Any revenue generated by the CoE shall belong to the CoE
during its operation. Upon closure of the CoE, all revenue rights that accrue from the
Center shall transfer to TEXMIN.

TEXMIN shall not be held responsible for any direct or indirect damage, claims,
liabilities, costs, or expenses arising in connection with the technology, solutions,
mentorship and guidance (“Products”) provided. In the event that Products provided by
TEXMIN is utilized by CoE’s in any manner as hardware and/or software in the
execution of any commercial or industrial projects, TEXMiN shall not be held
responsible whether directly or indirectly for any acts, omission, results,
consequences, outcomes arising out of the use of TEXMIN’'s Products in connection
with such projects unless it is expressly agreed in writing between the Parties. NIT
Agartala acknowledges and agrees that utilization of TEXMiN’s Products /CoE’s
hardware and/or software in any commercial or industrial projects, etc. shall be NIT
Agartala sole responsibility.

Insurance: Throughout the Term of this MoA, each Party shall, at its sole cost and
expense, maintain the minimum amounts of insurance coverage if required by local
laws.

Access to the Center of Excellence: TEXMIN has the right to bring its startups,
researchers, consultants, customers, clients, channel partners, vendors etc. for
demonstrations or any other activities during NIT Agartala’s regular working hours,
without any additional costs. TEXMIN shall ensure that such visits adhere to the
policies and guidelines established by the CoE to maintain a secure working
environment.

Page 8

 


--- Page 12 ---
Prof. Rajib Saha
Prokeasor in Civil Enginearing Dept.

Oh

a

28. Force Majeure: (i) Neither Party shall be liable to the other for delay in performing or
failure to perform any of its obligations hereunder if and to the extent that such delay
or failure to perform is due to Force Majeure Event (ii) The Party shall not be liable to
the delay if such Force Majeure Event is beyond the control of the Party or which could
not have been reasonably foreseen and avoided by the exercise of due care and
diligence consistent with the exercise of reasonable business judgment. (iii) If either
Party is so delayed or unable to perform its obligations as a result thereof, in whole or
in part, such Party shall promptly notify but no later than 3 (three) days to the other
Party thereof in writing, explaining the reason for such delay or inability to perform and
shall, to the extent reasonable and lawful under the circumstances. (iv)The Party shall
use its reasonable endeavors to remove or remedy such cause and as soon as
reasonably possible resume performance of its obligations.(v) Once the Force Majeure
Event has ceased, the affected party shall notify the other Party and resume
performance of its obligations under this MoA without undue delay. (vi) The suspension
of obligations due to the Force Majeure Event shall not extend the term of this MoA
unless otherwise agreed by the Parties. (vii) The Parties will continue to remain liable
for any act or omission or any default incurred by them before the Force Majeure event.
For the purpose of this clause a "Force Majeure Event" refers to any event or
circumstance beyond the reasonable control of either party, including but not limited to
acts of God, fire, flood, earthquake, war, terrorism, strikes, government actions,
pandemics, or any other event that renders performance under this MoA impossible or
impracticable.

29. Governing Law & Dispute Resolution: This MoA shall be governed by the laws of
India. Any dispute between the Parties arising out of or relating to this MoA, including
with respect to the interpretation of any provision of this MoA, shall be resolved by
arbitration by a single arbitrator appointed mutually by both Parties. The arbitration
proceedings shall be in accordance with the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. The
venue of the arbitration proceedings shall be at Dhanbad. The award of the arbitrator
shall be final and binding upon the Parties and the Parties agree to be bound by the
same. The Party in whose favor the award is given may seek to enforce the same ina
court having jurisdiction. Subject to the foregoing, the Parties submit themselves
exclusively to the jurisdiction of competent courts at Dhanbad.

30. This MoA is executed in duplicate with each copy being an original version and having
equal validity. By signing below, the Parties, acting by their duly authorised offices,
have caused this MoA to be executed, effective as of the day and year first above
written.

Ree Abe
Dean (Academic) &
NIT Agartala.

 

Page 9


--- Page 13 ---
ach
Signed on__March 2025.

-Forandonbehalfof |Forandonbehalfof
_ TEXMIN NIT Agartala

i A rrr ANA — ~—rerannervraraoertnmin nents ntnmennnnnniensnieahenianananananananinncinent

_ Signature

<
| OW sea

' Signature

 
 
 

ee
Z

    
   

@{TEXMiN |
| = ia i ji
_ Name-Dheeraj Kumar S; | Name: Prof. Sarat Kumar/Prafras. K. P: tal
| Designation: Direct MIN, IIT(ISM) | Designation: Director, NI socal
Dhanbad National Institute of Technology
| Witness 01: om . Witness 01: . 7
on “4
Professor & Chairman, AAS IR

_ Name: Prof. Manish Pal NIT Agartala. |

_ Designation: Professor and Chairman

| (Accreditation Ranking & Industrial
Relation), NIT Agartala

_ Designation:
| Dhanbad

 

ameter

ae EL ae

Nga | me’ Suyel Namasudra, PhD
IKX1SM) | Designation: Assistant Professor and
_ Dhanbad | Associate Dean (PG), NIT Agartala

f

| Witness 02: —

  

2 Lr

Prof. Rajib Saha
“ Dean (Academic) &
Professor in Civil Engineering Dept.
NIT Agartala.

Page 10

 


--- Page 14 ---
 

  

Annexure A (Payment Terms - CoE )

 
   
     

1. Upon Signing of MoA | 100% (for first year)

 

 

   

Upon Submission of UC/SE for 1° 100% (for 2™ year
year as per TEXMIN norms year)

  
      
 

Royet is
Prof. Rajib Saha
* Dean (Academic) &
Professor in Civil Engineering Dept
NIT Agartala.

       
     


--- Page 15 ---
&

a

Annexure B (Financial contribution for establishing the Center to NIT Agartala for the
creation and operation of the facility) for 4 Years

      
  
 

     
 

     
  

     
   

    
   

(INR IN
LAKH)

(INR IN
LAKH)

(INR IN
LAKH)

(INR IN
LAKH)

 

Technology Development Project (1
project)
up to INR 13,00,000/- each

  
 
   
    
 

Pre-incubation facility for students
up to 3 no. x 2,00,000/- each

 
  
 

Fellowships for UG/PG (5 fellowship)
INR10,000/- each

  
 
     
 

Center Operations
(center-in-charge-Manpower)

 
    
 

Contingency for center operation

  

management

Note: DST provides TEXMIN, time to time, under specialized heads viz SC/ST/EWS etc. Budget
may be allocated by TEXMIN to the Host Institute under these heads. In all such cases, Host
institute agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of expenditure under such heads, and
provide Utilization Certificate accordingly. In all decisions related to selection of the beneficiaries
of the grant-in-aid (startups/ entrepreneurs/TD project beneficiaries), a TEXMIN nominee shall be
present, TEXMIN startup and Technology Development policy shall be followed, as per DST

norms.

K 4 ib Sah
Prof. Rajib Saha
12 * Dean (academic) &
Profesacy in Civil Engineering Dept,
NIT Agartaia.

 

TEXMiNand NiTAgartala


--- Page 16 ---
Annexure C: Center Operation Mandate for TEXMiIN-CoE

1. Technology Development Projects

Call for Proposals by TEXMIN shall be circulated amongst the Institute faculty
for getting Technology Proposals as per TEXMIN guidelines issued time on
time.

Shortlisting shall be done by the center-in-charge from the Host Institute for the
project.

center-in-Charge shall collect the TD form from Pl,s to TEXMIN for records.
Once a project is allocated, TEXMIN reserves the right for periodic evaluation
of project through its own process.

2. Allocation of Fellowships

I.

Fellowships for Undergraduate (UG) and Postgraduate (PG) students will be
awarded after evaluation by an internal scrutiny committee.

The committee will ensure that fellowship recipients are working on projects
aligned with TEXMiN's objectives.

3. Center Operations Management

A designated Center Operations In-charge will be responsible for managing the day-
to-day operations of the center which includes the following job responsibilities:

I.

Il.
Ill.

Vi.

Disseminating information among Host Institute faculty and research groups
about TEXMiN objectives and guidelines.

Collecting project proposals from interested applicants.

Selection of beneficiaries as per Host Institute set up process, aimed to fulfil
TEXMiIN objectives.

Conduct workshops/seminars etc for the development of Host Institute faculty
and students.

Strive to make the Center sustainable with combined efforts of TEXMIN and
Host Institute.

The in-charge will oversee project execution, infrastructure record keeping and
maintenance, manage funds allocation as per TEXMIN guidelines, and
coordination with TEXMIN and Host Institute stakeholders.

4. Capacity Building Programs

I,

Prof. Rajib Saha
* Dean (Academic) &

Professor in Civil Enginsering Dept.

NIT Agartale.

Capacity-building initiatives, such as workshops, seminars, and training
programs, should be conducted regularly in collaboratively by TEXMIN and the
Host Institute, to augment the capabilities in CPS technologies for
mining/exploration sector.

These programs will focus on advancing skills and knowledge in areas aligned
with TEXMIN’s technological and i oals.

  

Page 1

3


--- Page 17 ---
   

ro} ci s, Startup support, and fellowships will
institutes with whom a Memorandum of

 
   
 
  
 
 
  

h, development, and innovation in alignment
5 and industrial needs.

. innovation, and joint ventures in mining

hip, and industry support

 

Page 14

 

 

 


--- Page 18 ---
   

    

Particulars Description Price (In
INR)

Desktop Intel Core i9-13900 (24core 30MB cache) / 32GB 1,60,000.00
Workstation RAM + 32GB RAM (64GB RAM) / 1TB SSD /T400
Graphic Card 4GB/ Wi-Fi-Wireless (Intel Wi-Fi 6E
AX211, 2x2, 802.11ax, Bluetooth wireless card, 1 no.

 
    

          
     
 
  

 
 
 

internal)/ Wireless or Wired keyboard and mouse,
Monitor -32” Warranty3 years / OS- Windows 11/
Software-MS Office

Panel 65" Interactive with OPS Kit
OPS Kit Intel Core i5, 11th Gen, Win 10, 8GB RAM,
256GB SSD, HDMI IN, HDMI OUT, USB, LAN etc
HP/Epson)-RGB :

rinter
UPS 7,000.00
| 6 | Meetup | Logitech (Audio/Video System) 80,000.00
Indoor Dome/Bullet with Hard Disk 500GB 10,000.00
Design & 1 no
Branding 40,000.00
_ 2 | eee SSCS
Grand Total (INR) 8,00,000.00

 
   
 
  
  

 

  
 

  
   
     
      
     
   

 

     

 

 

Royee coe
Prof. Rajib Saha
* Dean (Academic) &
Professor in Civil Engineering Dept.
NIT Agartala.

 

Page 15

 
