
--- Page 1 ---
7 ely

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA

WWW.nita.ac.in

 

THINK INDIA

www thinkindiaontine.in

 


--- Page 2 ---
 

THIS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING is made and entered into
at Agartala on zo’ day of Septewber2024;

BY AND BETWEEN

National Institute of Technology, Agartala (NIT, Agartala) an educational institute having
its campus at Barjala, Jirania, Agartala, Tripura 799046 through its Director Prof. S. K. Patra,
hereinafter referred to as "THE FIRST PARTY" (which expression unless repugnant to the
context shall mean and include its successors in interest, executors, administrators and
permitted assigns etc.):

AND

THINK INDIA, a national forum of students, alumni and faculties of premier institutes of
national importance having its head office at Yuvashakti, 55, Ist Main Road, Seshadripuram
Bangalore 560020 through Mr. Gaurav Mishra, Incharge, East & North East Zone, Think India,
hereinafter referred to as "THE SECOND PARTY" (which expression unless repugnant to
the context shall mean and include its successors in interest, executors, administrators and
permitted assigns etc.).

WHEREAS:

1. Tripura Engineering College was established in 1965. It was under the Govt. of Tripura. In
2006, the college was given the status of National Institute of Technology (NIT Agartala).
The institute is fully funded by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD),
Government of India.

2. NIT's vision is committed to developing highly competent young Engineers, Scientists, and
Management Professionals to cater to the ever-increasing techno-managerial needs of national
and international standards fulfilling professional ethics and societal commitment

3. NIT's mission is to enhance the effectiveness of technical education with innovative systems
and devise a mechanism to facilitate the application of research findings to solve problems of
industries/academics. To establish as the corridor of higher education for Southeast Asian
countries

4. NIT’s objective is to influence the technical practices of the Government and Non-
Government organizations through its Undergraduate and Post Graduate teaching program for
young and prospective technocrats, Training of corporate executives, Consultancy, and
Research. The research programs are oriented towards developing technical systems that are
most suitable in the Indian context, particularly for the North-Eastern Zone.

5. 'Think India’ was initiated in 2006 by students of IISc, IIMB & Professional Institutes of
Bengaluru. The idea of Think India came into reality with the organising of the maiden Think
India convention in 2007 at the Art of Living Ashram, Bengaluru. It is a national forum of
students, alumni and faculties of premier institutes of national importance students, alumni and
faculties from premier national institutes i.e. IITs, NITs, IIMs, IISc, National Law Universities
‘ o othr such pramier institutes in the various field of acatenty across India .. - Think wad is

 


--- Page 3 ---
ideas and views of nationalistic fervour and also to instigate young minds to shoulder their role
in the nation-building process.

6. The Objectives of Think India had been spelled owt in the Think India Bengaluru
Declaration, adopted on the occasion of the First Think India Convention held at Art of Living
ashram, Bengaluru on the 13th day of January 2007 as below; -

“Think, design and develop sustainable development strategies for underdeveloped and
rural Bharat,

Think and act to meet the environmental, cultural and security needs of Bharat and the
World,

Motivate and support the initiatives of the organizations and individuals to inculcate
India-centric action, propagation and implementation of thought and designs,

Initiate and sustain India-centric thoughts and activities on campus and among the
intelligentsia,

Denounce, in thought and action, all forms of terrorism, illegitimate interference in
religious and cultural matters and any forces and design, working against our national
interest,

Actively oppose any sectarian and narrow-minded activities of fissiparous tendencies
and engage ourselves to promote social harmony in every possible way,

Support and uphold the concept of gender justice and promote family values, the
unique contribution of Bharat to the world civilization."

7. Since 2011, Think India organizes its flagship annual national conference. It runs a
nationwide social Internship Program called 'Anubhooti' where students from premier
institutes intern im leading Sewa organizations im different parts of India. it also organizes
various campus events to aware, generate and gather mandate of the intellectual student
community over social, economic and political issues having national and international
significance. It also organizes various other internship programs called, Vidhi, Niti etc.

8. Think India organizes various activities as below.

— Interactive groups organizing discussions or Sewa activities on campus.

— Organizing Talks on Social, Developmental and topics concerning India on campus.

— Organizing Fellowship, I Internship with Sewa organizations.

— Organizing flagship Conferences, workshops or seminars for Premier Institutes’
community to share their ideas.

9. In 2017 Think India started 3 other internshins program for different streams like 'Vidhi’ for
Law and humanities students, ‘Niti' which is open to all and basically deals in policy formation
and the last one is 'Diksha' which is for technical students. ‘Sansadiya’ for depth and a better
SL item of parliamentary and constituency works. ‘Shuruat’ for promouing oe

\—— -_

 

“IT AGARTALA


--- Page 4 ---
 

This partnership is important because NIT -Agartala and Think India intend to be associated
with each other and to work together to inculcate ethics & society-centric thought in students
through its activities.

NOW THIS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING WITNESSETH AND IT IS
HEREBY MUTUALLY AGREED BY AND BETWEEN BOTH THE PARTIES AS
FOLLOWS TO PROMOTE ACADEMIC AND SOCIAL EXCHANGES AND
COOPERATION ON LEADERSHIP.

Despite the statements and obligations expressed herein, This Memorandum of
Understanding is a non-binding expression of the current intentions of the Parties, and
neither Party will incur nor be bound to any legal obligations or expense hereunder to
the other Party.

10. Think India in cooperation with the NIT Agartala seeks to undertake the following
events/activities: -

a) Organize interactive group discussions or Sewa activities on campus as well as off
campus.

b) Organize debates and talks on issues ofnational and international importance pertaining
to social, economic, and developmental concerns.

c) To facilitate guests (real-life role models) to deliver lectures on issues concerning
society at large.

d) Organize Fellowship/Internship programs with various Sewa organizations.

e) Organize flagship Conferences, workshops and seminars.

f) To encourage the participation of the students and faculty members in social cum
academic activities which concern today's society.

g) To form a Study Circle to discuss the issues among students and faculties on current
topics which affect society as well as to invite any eminent guest speaker.

h) Adoption of a village near the institution to spread awareness through organizing a
medical camp and adopting tree plantation activity.

1 1, The NIT Agartala shall make every endeavour to provide assistance, infrastructural
facilities, and cooperation for the successful implementation of the events and activities and
shall do the following: -

a) Allow and permit Think India to organize events/activities on campus and off campus.

b) Allow and permit at least two representatives of Think India to attend and participate
in the seminars, conferences, debates, workshops or symposiums for free.

c) Receive a Token of Appreciation either from NIT Agartala or the Government of India
for your work in encouraging the participation of students in social activities.
Grant permission(s) and provide infrastructural facilities and cooperation to Think India
in organizing the events/activities on the campus.
Allow, permit and encourage students and faculties to positively participate as well as
take part in organizing the events I activities to be undertaken by Think India.
Acknowledge Think India as a partner for any event to be organised in soles fy

with the students. Sr
——

 

NIT AGARTALA . India


--- Page 5 ---
g) To provide us with a list of organizations, which will help us in achieving our mutual
goals and objectives.
h) NIT Agartala will register Think India as a formal society or club in their institution.

12. Reporting: - At least two representatives of Think India and two representative members
from NIT Agartala will mutually evaluate the effectiveness and adherence to this Memorandum
of Understanding.

13. Funding: - All the expenses to conduct the events and activities on the campus will be
borne by the institute itself in coordination with Think India. All detail related to funding
should be provided by both Parties after each event, to maintain transparency between the
Parties

14. Duration: - This MOU is at-will and may be amended by mutual consent of an authorized
representative of NIT Agartala and Think India. This MOU shall become effective upon
signature and will remain in force until modified or terminated by both parties through written
mutual consent.

“Dispute Resolution: All the disputes, if any arise between the parties of this MoU shall try to
resolve by mutual discussion between the Head of the NITA and the Head of the Think India.

If the dispute cannot be resolved as stated above that dispute must be resolved under the
provision of the Arbitration and Reconciliation Act and all the dispute shall be under the
jurisdiction of Courts in Agartala only.

15. Confidentiality: - During the term of this MoU, the parties will share confidential
information with each other including industry knowledge, other information confidential to
the other party and other information in relation to the other party which is not available in the
public domain. The parties accept that neither it nor any of its affiliates including but limited
to students and shall not share any of this confidential information at any time with the third
party or use this confidential information for their personal benefit at any time if found should
face disciplinary action from both Party.

dor

A

 


--- Page 6 ---
IN WINESS HEREOF, this MoU is executed on the 4a

da day of the month

of — Septerenverc. in the year 2024 in NIT Agartala by and between Think India and

National institute of Technology Agartala and on behalf of two organisations by:

Signed by/on behalf of

Whi
Prof. Sarat Kumar Patra
Director
NIT Agartala

WI. URI BAR WaT
Prof. S. K. Patra
frets / Director

National Institute of Technology
Agartala.

Witness

DEAN (SW-2)
NIT, Agartala.

am

Or. Manish Pal
Professor & Chairman, AA & IR
NIT Agartala.

NIT AGARTAL

. 4
Sore
Mr. Gaurav Mishra
Incharge, East & North East Zone
Think India

IN-CHARGE
THINK INDIA EAST AMO WORTH EAST ZONE

Witness

STATE CONVENOR
THINK INDIA TRIPURA

; > Soe ‘A
> A Salata a

CAMPUS ConVENOR
THINK THDIA, NITH.

 
