
--- Page 1 ---
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN

NAM:TECH

We Inspire Humane Capital

NEW AGE EDUCATION AND SKILLS FOUNDATION
AND

 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

= ~~

+


--- Page 2 ---
NAM:TECH

We Inspire Humane Capital
THIS Memorandum of Understanding (hereinafter referred to as the “MOU”) is made on

 

this 11 day of July Two Thousand and Twenty-Five (11.07.2025) and entered into:

By and between

New Age Education and Skills Foundation, a not-for-profit company established under
Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 by ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India Limited, having
its registered office at AMNS House, AMNS Township, 27km, Surat- Hazira Road, Hazira,
Surat 394270, India, and has founded an educational institute named New Age Makers’
Institute of Technology (hereinafter referred to as “NAMTECH” which expression shall,
unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, include its successors, permitted

assigns, group entities, affiliates, subsidiaries, and associated entities)

National Institute of Technology Agartala was established by the Ministry of Education,
formally the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), Government of India, in
the year 2006, vide notification No. F. 20-20/2004/TS III/ dated 10.03.2006 by converting the
Tripura Engineering College to National Institute of Technology Agartala, functioning at its
premises at Jirania, Tripura (hereinafter referred to as the “NIT Agartala” which expression
shall, unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, include its successors,

permitted assigns, group entities, affiliates, subsidiaries, and associated entities)

For the purpose of this MOU, NAMTECH and NIT Agartala may individually be referred as

“Party” and collectively as “Parties.”

he

1. PREAMBLE

a

WHEREAS as one of the foremost institutes of national importance in higher technological
education, NIT Agartala is uniquely placed in making substantial contributions to industrial
advancement, automation and sustainability. NIT Agartala offers Bachelor's Programs,

Master’s Programs, and Doctoral programs through various Departments.

New Age Education and Skills Foundation is a not-for-profit organization established under
Section 8 of the Companies Act 2013 by ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India Limited and has
founded New Age Makers’ Institute of Technology (NAMTECH), which aims to provide high-


--- Page 3 ---
NAM:TECH

We Inspire Humane Capital
quality engineering and technical education with a focus on advanced manufacturing and

 

sustainability in India with advocacy of Manufacturing Engineering Technology (MET).
NAMTECH’s vision is closely aligned with the Honourable Prime Minister’s Viksit Bharat
mission, as it works to bridge the skill gap by equipping engineers, technicians and trainers

with Industry 4.0 capabilities—preparing them to become future-ready professionals.

Both the parties/organisations share a strong commitment to creating social value,
especially in the areas of education, skill development, diversity and environmental

sustainability and hence have decided to collaborate.

2. SCOPE AND AREAS OF COLLABORATION

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein-after appearing, it is
hereby agreed by and between the Parties to establish a strategic partnership between
NAMTECH and NIT Agartala to co-develop future-focused capabilities in smart
manufacturing, mobility, robotics, sustainability, space and digital technologies, Artificial
Intelligence, etc. bridging industry academia gap for national impact. This will support
MAKE IN INDIA, DIGITAL INDIA & SKILL INDIA.

3. PURPOSE

NIT Agartala a premier national institute would leverage its rich repository of students,
faculty and research infrastructure facilities to contribute to the mutually agreed mandate
of taking forward the industrial trajectory in India towards technology advancement and

sustainability.

a

NAMTECH along with industry partners shall provide industry-oriented experiential

learning and its “living lab” approach for supporting joint initiatives.
4. KEY COLLABORATION AREA
i. Joint Research & Innovation:

* Establish Centres of Excellence (e.g., EV Systems, Industry 4.0, Robotics, Green

Hydrogen).


--- Page 4 ---
NAM:TECH

We Inspire Humane Capital

Vi.

 

* Co-supervised MTech/PhD research on real-world industrial problems.

* Partner in national and international R&D grant proposals based on expertise of

parties.

Advanced Skilling & Curriculum Development:

* Co-create industry-aligned curriculum and micro-credentials.

* Run Faculty Development Programs (FDPs) and train-the-trainer workshops.

¢ Offer student immersion programs, summer schools, internships and live labs at
NAMTECH and/or NIT Agartala.

Startup & Innovation Ecosystem:

* Jointly mentor deep-tech startups through NAMTECH and NIT Agartala incubators.
¢ Organize Hackathons, Grand Challenges and accelerator bootcamps.

* Co-develop IP and support technology commercialization.

Initiation of Joint Programmes:

* M Tech (1+1) Programmes

* Integrated Dual Degree B Tech + M Tech (4+1) Programmes.

Faculty & Industry Practitioner Exchange:

e Enable visiting faculty and experts from academia and industry.

*« Conduct masterclasses, seminars and applied workshops at both campuses.
Sustainability:

* Drive joint projects in affordable technologies for rural and urban India.

* Collaborate on green mobility and circular economy innovations.


--- Page 5 ---
NAM:TECH

We Inspire Humane Capital
vii. Social Impact:

 

* Adopt Engineering Diploma Colleges & ITIs in NIT Agartala’s vicinity using
NAMTECH Hub & Spoke Model.

viii. Joint Clubs & Events:

*« Co-create Joint Clubs of common interest like Automotive, Motor Sports,
Robotics, Sustainability, Safety, Aerospace, Space Technology, Defence, World
Skills, etc.

* Conduct Events, Conferences, Consortiums, Competitions, etc. jointly on topics

of National Interest. .

* Competitions should be amongst School Children, Engineering College students,

Faculty, etc.

* Encourage & prepare our students to participate in International Events like World
Skills, Robocon, Hackathon, BAJA, FORMULA, etc.

ix. Think Tank:

* Create White Papers for Government Ministries, NIT| Aayog, National Skill

Development Corporation to support Government to take policy decisions.
x. Fellowship & Scholarships:

* Declaring NAMTECH MET Fellowship programmes opportunities for eligible INI
final-year B.Tech. students and alumni (under 30 years of age) to pursue the one-

year International Professional Master’s Program (iPMP) at NAMTECH.
5. FOCAL POINTS

The focal point for thie MoU on the part of NIT Agartala shall be the Dean (R&C), NIT Agartala
or his representative. On the part of NAMTECH, the Director-General or his representative
shall be the nodal person to ensure the effective execution of the activities related to the

MoU.

 


--- Page 6 ---
NAM:TECH

We Inspire Humane Capital

6. CONFIDENTIALITY AND USE OF INFORMATION

 

Information exchanged between the Parties under or regarding this MOU will only be used
by the recipient to fulfil the spirit of this MOU. Such information will not be disclosed to any
third party in any manner, without the prior consent of the Party providing the information,
unless the disclosure is required by law or already available in the public domain. To the
extent allowed by law, the recipient being so required by law to disclose any such

information will inform the other Party about the situation as soon as is practicable.

Each Party will establish and maintain such safeguards as are necessary and appropriate
to protect the confidentiality of information received from the other Party under this MOU.

This provision shall survive the termination of this MOU. .
7. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

The Parties recognize and acknowledge that the ownership of the background IP belonging

to each Party will exclusively belong to that Party.

The ownership of any intellectual property (including but not limited to confidential
information, Know-how, copyrights. sensitive information, and any other industrial or
intellectual property rights) developed jointly during this MOU shall be vested in both

parties to this Memorandum.

Any: publication shall only be possible with prior notice to each other and on mutual
agreement. Nonetheless, both parties shall be free to use the intellectual property
developed during the Project for its internal teaching, further research, and educational

purposes. This provision shall survive the termination of this MoU.

Neither Party is authorized to use the other party's name, trademark or logo in any manner

without the other party's written consent.
8. UNDERSTANDING OF PARTIES

Nothing in this MoU shall grant to either Party the right to bind the other Party, without the

 


--- Page 7 ---
NAM:TECH

We Inspire Humane Capital
prior written consent of the other Party.

 

The Parties understand and acknowledge that this MoU will provide the foundation for more
comprehensive and definitive agreements. The provisions of this MoU reflect the current
plans and intentions of NAMTECH and NIT Agartala. However, specific terms and
conditions concerning particular projects under this MoU are to be outlined in future

definitive agreements between the Parties.

Each Party represents that concerning the matters that are subject to this MoU; it will not
make or offer any payment, or gift, either directly or through intermediaries, to or for the
use of any public official where such payment, gift, promise, or advantage would amount

to any illegality and /or corrupt practice under the law. .
9. BINDING TERMS

It is clearly understood by NIT Agartala and NAMTECH that there will be no obligation or

financial commitment whatsoever on the Parties under this MoU unless otherwise agreed.

For each one of the activities and/or actions identified by the Parties under this MoU, and/or
when specific obligations or financial commitments appear necessary to the Parties, the
Parties may enter, directly or through the concerned affiliate, into a specific agreement
defining in detail the respective obligations and commitments of each Party, and particular

the program of work, and the financial conditions of its execution.
10.“NOTICES AND ADDRESSES

For this MOU's purposes, theParties' address will be as follows. All correspondence and notices
in relation to the present MOU sent to the Parties at the address mentioned below shall be
deemed sufficient service of the notice on the Parties.

The Institutions identify following coordinators to ensure proper implementation of the
Program:

NAMTECH:
Name: Dr. Devang Joshi

Designation: Executive Registrar


--- Page 8 ---
NAM:TECH

We Inspire Humane Capital

C7
Address: NAMTECH, Research Park, IIT Gandhinagar, Palaj, Gandhinagar Gujarat -382055

 

Email: devang.joshi@namtech.ac

NIT Agartala:

Name: Col. Dr. Asish Badola

Designation: Registrar

Address: NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania, Agartala, Tripura 799046

Email: registrar@nita.ac.in
11. TERMINATION AND WITHDRAWAL
This MoU shall automatically terminate on the third anniversary of the signing date unless
extended by mutual agreement of the Parties in writing or unless earlier terminated on the
occurrence of any one of the following:

a. Mutual written agreements by the Parties to terminate this MoU.

b. Termination of this MoU by any Party by serving ninety (90) days prior written notice

to the other Party. The said termination will not affect any existing student

beneficiary in any condition.

Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, no Party shall be liable to pay
any compensation for any loss, damages, or claims to the other Party upon expiry or

termination of this MoU by its terms, unless as stated otherwise under the MoU.

Me

12. LIABILITIES

a

This MOU is only a statement of intent and does not create, directly or indirectly, any legally

binding rights, obligations or liabilities, on either Party.

No Party shall hold the other Party liable or responsible for any direct or indirect costs,
expenses, losses, claims or any financial commitments, borne or proposed to be borne as

a result of any act or omission undertaken by such Party, solely on the basis of this MOU.

13. DURATION


--- Page 9 ---
NAM:TECH

We Inspire Humane Capital
This MOU is valid for a period of three (3) years from the date of its signing. It shall become

 

effective upon signature by the authorized officials of both parties and will remain effective
until modified or terminated by mutual consent. Any modification to the MOU must be
mutually agreed upon by the authorized officials of both parties. In the absence of mutual
agreement, this MOU shall end after three (3) years. The parties may, subject to mutual
consent, extend their partnership on mutually agreeable terms and conditions after the

end of this MOU by signing a new MOU.
14. GOVERNING LAW AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION

This MOU shall be governed by fhe laws of India. Should any disputes or differences arise during
this Agreement between the Parties, they agree to amicably*resolve the same through
discussions between the Director, NIT Agartala and the Director-General of NAMTECH or their
respective nominees. Any unresolved disputes shall be settled by arbitration governed by the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 and its amendments. The place of arbitration shall be
Ahmedabad, and the language shall be English. The Parties submit to the exclusive jurisdiction

of the courts in Ahmedabad.
15. ASSIGNMENT

The Parties shall not be entitled to assign, license, or in any manner deal with the benefit, in
whole or in part, or any rights under this MOU without the prior written consent of the owner

or the other Parties to this Agreement.

Ms

16. AMENDMENT

a

Except as otherwise provided herein, no addition, amendment, or modification of any part of
the MOU shall be effective unless done in writing and signed by and:on behalf of both Parties

by their respective Authorized Signatories.

Signed on this 11 day of July 2025, in two copies in the English language, both copies being
equally authentic.

 


--- Page 10 ---
NAM:TECH

We Inspire Humane Capital
The parties have executed this Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in duplicate on this day
of in the presence of witness indicated.

 

For and on behalf of For and on behalf of
NAMTECH NIT Agartala

Mr. Arunkumar Pillai Prof. Sarat Kumar Patra
Director General, Director
NAMTECH NIT Agartala

E-Mail: arunkumar.pillai@namtech.ac Email : nita.director@gmail.com

Sign: . Sign: Awe

'
Name: +. Kiva Toshe Name: Dr. Tarun Kumar Misra

 

3K OK ok ok ok 2k 2K ok 2
