
--- Page 1 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA
[NITA]

FOR

CENTRE FOR GANGA RIVER BASIN MANAGEMENT AND STUDIES
[CGANca]

SUPPORTED BY
NATIONAL MISSION FOR CLEAN GANGA
MIUNISTRY OF JAL SHAKTI, NEW DELHI, INDIA

 


--- Page 2 ---
 

Centre for Ganga River Basin

Management and Studies [cGanga]
Transforming Ganga | Valuing Water

   

Memorandum of Agreement

between Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur [IITK] and National
Institule of Technology, Agartala [NITA]

 

This Memorandum of Agreement (herein after referred to as MOA) is signed between the
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur {herein after referred to as IITK) as the Lead Institute
(herein after also referred to as Li)of the Centre for Ganga River Basin Management and
Studies (cGanga) having its registered office at IIT Kanpur, Kanpur 208016, UP india and
National Institute of Technology, Agartala (herein after referred to as NITA) as a Member
Institute (herein after also referred to as Ml) having its registered office at Barjala, sirania,
Agartala Tripura 799046,

In this MOA, “IITK” and “NITA” are collectively referred to as the “Parties”, and individually
as a “Party”, or “Li” for IITK, or “MI” for NiTA, as appropriate, wherever the context so
requires.

WHEREAS
I. LI has signed a Memorandum of Agreement with the Ministry of Jal Shakti
(formerly Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga
Rejuvenation) for establishment of Centre for Ganga River Basin Management
and Studies (hereinafter referred to as cGanga).

il. cGanga is mandated to lead the Consortium of Science and Technology
Institutions (CSTI) within India and outside as per requirement, and interest and
capabilities of the member institutes. The Consortium is to be dynamic where
member institutes and associated professionals may change with time.

I. The MI under CSTI shall nominate a senior level faculty member/scientist/ officer/
executive, as the case may be, as Institute Coordinator for the CSTI.

Page 2 of 6

 


--- Page 3 ---
 

This Memorandum of Agreement witnesses as follows:

1. Purpose of the Memorandum

1.1, The main purpose of this MOA is to facilitate the multi-institutional approach to
achieve the mandate of cGanga and to set up understandings that lead to
cooperation and coordination of activities within the scope of cGanga.

1.2. Where appranriate, Lha MI shall encoutage Ils facully members and researchers to
develop and execute project proposals on the subject area and support uctivilles
which involve areas of broad co-operation Including dynamic evolution of Ganga
River Basin Management Plan (herein after referred to as GRBMP) prepared by
Consortium of IITs, detailing of various Missions Reports of GRBMP and Suppo! Ling
the implementation of GRBMP through knowledge inputs.

1.3. Each MI should have a Single point of contact with LI as its Institute Coordinator for
all administrative and financial matters related to the execution of cGanga Projects.

2. Responsibility of the MI

2.1. 9 The MI shall develop separate implementing agreements or arrangements with LI, or
other Mls if necessary, to support any agreed specific collaborative activities
(cGanga Projects) under the purview of this MGA,

2.2. This MOA will enable the MI to act in conformity with their internal rules,

2.3. The MI! shail be responsible for:

2.3.1, Management and coordination of activities, which will be referred as cGanga
at MI, under the auspices of this MOA.

2.3.2. Designation of appropriate officials to manage and coordinate joint activities,

2.3.3, Where required and Possible, provision of exchange of necessary
facilities/services within institute and with LI and other Mis to facilitate the
project activities.

2.4, Notwithstanding any other provision of this MOA, all activities under this MOA will be
conducted in accordance with, and are subject to, all applicable laws and to all
executive orders, guidelines and policies related to the subject matters of cGanga by
the Ministry of Jal Shakti or any other Ministry of the Government of India (herein after
referred to as Sponsoring Agency) which deals with or will deal with subject matters
related to cGanga.

3. Financial Arrangements

3.1, Funds as mentioned in respective Implementing Agreement will be released by LI to the
Mi as “Grant”.

3.2. All funds released by the LI shall be kept in the “Mother Project” at the MI.

 

Page 3 of 6


--- Page 4 ---
 

 

 

3.3.

3.4.

3.5.

The expenditure of “sub/daughter” projects shalt be charged to the Mother Project
after consolidation regularly at the end of certain periods (monthly, quarterly, half
yearly, etc.) as may be decided by Mi and communicated to LI.

Expenditure Statement for each daughter/sub project and Utilization Certificate of
Mother Project shall be submitted by the MI to the LI for every financial year within 30
days after the end of the financial year and as may be required by the Sponsoring
Agency,

Interest earned, if any, will be appropriately accounted and shown in Lhe Ulilizallon
Cerlilicate for each financial year by the MI, and any unutilized amatint shall be
returned to the LI within 30 days of closure of all daughter/sub projects to cGanga by
the MI.

Implementing Agreements or Arrangements

4,1.

4.2.

4.3,

4.4,

Details of specific projects undertaken to implement the collaborative activities
identified including tasks, responsibilities, milestones, deliverables, resources, financials
and related conditions will be worked out by the Parties and any other cooperating/
implementing entities/agencies as deemed appropriate and will be embodied as
Implementing Agreements or Arrangements under this MOA. This MOA shall govern all
such Implementing Agreements or Arrangements unless expressly stated otherwise.
Projects established under this MOA will be coordinated through the heads of the two
Parties or their designees. Coordinators and working groups may be appointed by
mutual consent of the Parties, as required, to consider and act on matters related to
the implementation of this MOA.

Dr Vinod Tare, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering and Founding Head, cGanga
will execute the responsibilities mentioned in this MOA on behalf of LI (cGanga at IIT
Kanpur).

The Director, National institute of Technology, Agartala or his designee will execute the
responsibilities mentioned in this MOA on behalf of the MI (cGanga at Ml).

Periodic reports on the progress towards achieving the purpose of the MOA, including
status reports on each of the projects undertaken shall be submitted to the LI by the
Mi. Such reports should outline future activity areas, represent proceedings of working
groups, seminars or meetings and document the progress and results of various
projects by the Mi under this MOA.

Data/Information Exchange

5.1.

Each Party shall provide the other Party necessary project specific information, data
and other documents for successful achievements of the objectives of this MOA.
Information that may be exchanged under the auspices of this MOA may include
information that is intended to acquaint the Parties, to identify common interests, and
other such matters as may be necessary to properly define the appropriate level of

 

Page 4 of 6


--- Page 5 ---
 

 

 

5.2.

5.3.

5.4.

5.5.

cooperation between the Parties. in addition to the exchange of reports and other
documents, such exchange of information may include workshops and othet
collaborative sessions that focus on research outcomes and the planning of
collaborative activities.

Any data/information collected/generated by MI on behalf of cGanga or to carry out
any activity or any daughter/sub project shall be made available to the LI in
original/digital form,

Fach Party will use the infarmation provided lo it only for Lhe purpose Intended and will
give all possible protection to Information, data and products of a confidential nature
provided by the other Party. The details will be included in the specific implementation
agreements, bul at a minimum, this protection will include the saine prolectiun, which
a Party accords its own information, data and products.

The application or use of any information exchanged or transferred between Parties
under this MOA will be the responsibility of the recelving Parties. The supplying Party
does not guarantee the sufficiency and appropriateness of such information for any
particular application.

Each Party will retain the right to release public information regarding its own activities
under this MOA. In cases where the activities of the other Party are also concerned,
prior consultation shall be undertaken for releasing any public information.

Intellectual Property Rights

6.1.

The treatment of intellectual property created in the course of collaborative activities
under this MOA and relevant funding terms shall conform to the existing policies of the
Parties and as may be agreed by the Parties separately for each project executed under
this MOA.

Confidentiality

7.1,

7.2.

The Parties agree that all information or discussions relating to this Memorandum of
Agreement, the fields of research or to the business affairs of the other Party which are
of a confidential nature or which ought reasonably to be considered confidential
(”Confidential Information”), shall not be disclosed by a Party to any third party without
the prior written consent of the other Party.

Neither Party shall disclose or use any Confidential Information without the other
Party’s prior written permission. These obligations of confidentiality and non-use shall
not apply to any information: (i) that it was lawfully in the receiving Party’s possession
before being disclosed to it by the disclosing Party; (ii) that lawfully enters the public
domain; (iii) that was independently developed by the receiving Party without
reference to the Confidential Information received from the disclosing Party; or fiv)
which is required to be disclosed by law.

 

Page 5 of 6


--- Page 6 ---
7/11/ 2020