
--- Page 1 ---
Tse SreaniPresl SSI Sra
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

An Institute of National Importance
AGARTALA — 799046 ( TRIPURA )

No.F.NITA.36(58-DFW)/Health Care/2024/L / sb 2G -4{ Dated: [.&... 07/2025

NOTIFICATION

 

NIT Agariala has extended its Memorandum of Agreement (copy enclosed) on 03.07.2025 with ILS Hospital,
Agartala.

All regular employees and their dependents are now eligible to receive medical treatment at ILS Hospital
through this agreement by presenting a valid NITA identity card and referral from the NITA Health Centre as
per the conditions specified in Clause 10 of the agreement.

In emergency cases, NITA beneficiaries and their family members can receive treatment without a referral
from the Health Centre upon presentation of a valid NITA identity card, but the hospital must inform the

Health Centre and receive a referral within 48 hours, as outlined in Clause 4 of the agreement.

The submission of referral with the hospital is mandatory requirement for processing of medical claims, if
any.

This is issued with the approval of the Competent Authority.

oo

REGISTRAR
Enclo: As stated above.

Copy to;

i. PS to the Director, NIT Agartala for kind information of the Director, NITA.

2. All Deans/ HoDs/ Sectional Heads, NITA for kind information.

3. The Chairman (Computing & ICT), NITA for uploading the same in the Institute website.

hal.
REGISTRAR

a e—— i OO
National Institute of Technology Agartala

P.O.: NIT Agartala, Barjala, Jirania; West Tripura, Pin - 799 046
Tel: 0381-254 6630 / 6629 Fax : 0381 254 6360,URL:http/ /www.nita.ac.in

 


--- Page 2 ---
  

 

=
oes, ‘ we ee gee NO P
_— Cortificate’ No! S77, IN-TRE5SYs 7422091 68X 11118 ;
4 . : oe 3
Certificate Issued Date = =| Ses HOE Mess iS 3
; Account Reference Lf {WNGNACC (SV) tri2000404/\AGARTALA/ TR-WTR 2, 00 2
“Unique Doc. Reference : SUBIN-TRTR1200040468322049047716X Oe os ° 3
* “Purchased by GPT HEALTHCARE LIMITED . ae é
Description of Document Article [A-5(2) Agreement including a higher Agreement , oe 5
Property Description NA 2° an z
Consideration Price (Rs.) 0 °° 3 z
(Zero) ve mae z
First Party NIT AGARTALA an #
Second Party GPT HEALTHCARE LIMITED 2 foe s
Stamp Duty Paid By GPT HEALTHCARE LIMITED o* 8 a
Stamp Duty Amount(Rs.) 200 of i
; (Two Hundred only) é 4
\ . ~ :
3
fe Please write or type below thishine = ----- 3
= ~ rr * &
3
; DR. GAUTAM HAZARIKA
; [ooo Chief Operating Officer =
ILS Hospitals, Agartala. .
1 5
RE QG CG S rw. Qn : eo
Statutory Alert RAO < SH SSS SSN SAH S ryi
af ag 4 Fre aithentc ty of ths Stamp certificate should be verhed at www sheilestamp com’ g e-Stamp Yl tock Kolding ga
any discrepancy ir the detaits on this Certificate and as available on the website / Mobile App renders nt invalid as

   

      
  
   

   
  

’
oe)

>

a
“te
“

e-Stamp

      

ARE
BASS

  

=
Sees “z

  
  

     
  

  
 
 

? The cnus of checking the legitimacy 15 on the users of the certificate
2 'n case of any discrepancy flease inform the Cumperent Authority

 

wet | ‘ Vers ° Oo
erie. . _ a ee Ook «hee
SSN Ay FEBS Bem mars ST
i! eyt en
INDIA NON JUDICIAL “t y
Eyes Oa

Government of Tripura ef

en

“4

2
au -

’

©

Bs
hat
+

te
¥,

awh

 


--- Page 3 ---
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

An agreement made and entered into this day of 28 day of January, 2025
between National Institute of Technology, Agartala, represented by the
Registrar (herein after called “NITA” which expression, unless repugnant to or
excluded by context, shall include its successors-in office and assigns) of the
one part and the “NITA beneficiary” is limited to only regular faculty members
and non-teaching staffs and their legally dependent family members.

AND

Mr. Gautam Hazarika, Chief Operating Officer, authorized signatory of ILS
Hospitals, Agartala located at Capital Complex, Kunjaban, Agartala, Tripura —
700110, a unit of GPT Healthcare Limited, JC-25, Sector-Ill, Salt Lake, Kolkata
(hereinafter called ‘Hospital’ which expression unless repugnant to or excluded
by context, shall include its legal representativeness successor and assigns) of
the second part.

WHEREAS ILS Hospitals Agartala, Capital Complex, Kunjaban, Agartala,
Tripura , a unit of GPT Healthcare Limited, JC-25, Sector — III, Salt Lake,
Kolkata, had agreed to provide treatment facilities to serving NITA
Beneficiaries.

WE, THEREFORE, THE PARTIES HERETO AGREE AS FOLLOWS:-

1. The hospital will charge NIT Agartala beneficiaries or his/her dependent
family members for IPD patients within the ceiling limits as described
and contained in the prevalent CGHS Guwahati rates, 2014 and
subsequent changes in that rate thereafter as there is no CGHS rates
prescribed for Agartala. If rate for any item of investigation or procedure
is not included in the CGHS rate chart then bills for such would be
raised as per hospital rates with discount @ 15%.

2. It shall, in no event, charge an amount more than the amount agreed to
whose details are given in the Annexure -I from any NITA beneficiary for
a period of 03 (Three) year from the date of signing of this Agreement or
until such time the prescribed rates are revised by the Central
Government which ever earlier.

3. It shall not discriminate in the provisions of the facility in any manner
whatsoever against the NITA beneficiary receiving treatment in the
hospital as compared to any other patient of equal status and coming for ||) |~
treatment in the hospital. :

4. In emergency, the hospital will not refuse admission or demand for an
advice from the NITA beneficiary or his family member and provide
medical treatment facilities to the patient on production of valid NIT
Agartala ID Card and a referral letter from notified NIT Agartala authority
may not be insisted upon from him. Hewever, after admission in
Hospital, the hospital authority will infortn the notified NIT Agartala
authority, who will send the referral letter through the patient or his/her
representatives within 48 working hours from the time of admission,
failing which it will be treated as normal patient. In case of family
members, the NIT Agartala medical identity card issued by NIT Agartala
authority will be produced by the patient.

The conditions of emergency are as under:-

(a) Acute Coronary Syndrome (Coronar; Artery By-pass Graft/
Percutaneous Trans Luminal Coronary Angiography) inclucing
Myocardial Infraction, Unstable Angina, Ventricular Arrhythmias,

2

 


--- Page 4 ---
 

Supra Ventricular Tachycardia, Cardiac Temponade, Acute Left
Ventricular Failure/Severe Congestive Cardiac Failure, Accelerated
Hypertension, Complete Heart Block and Stroke Adam attack, Acute
Aortic dissection.

(b) Acute Limb Ischemia, Rupture of Aneurism, Medical and Surgical
shock and peripheral circulatory failure.

(c) Cerebral Vascular Attack-stroke, sudden unconsciousness, Head
injury, Respiratory failure decompressed lung disease, Cerebro-
Meningcal Infections, convulsions, Acute Paralysis, Acute Visual loss.

(a) Acute Abdomen such as Acute Appendicitis, Acute Pancreatitis, Acute
Renal Colic, Acute Intermittent Porphyries etc.

(e) Road Traffic Accident/with injuries including fall.
(f) Acute poisoning.
(g) Acute Renal Failure.

(h) Acute abdomen in female including acute Obstetrical and
Gynecological emergencies.

(i) Heart Stroke/Heart Exhaustion.
(j) Burns of all kinds.

(k) Any other disease/ condition which the treating doctor considers life
threatening.

5. The Hospital shall provide access to the financial and medical records for
own assessment and review by medical and financial auditors of the
NITA as and when necessary and requirement shall be final.

6. Any liability against the hospital arising due to any default or negligence
in providing or performance of the medical services shall be borne
exclusively by the hospital who shall alone be responsible for the defect
in rendering such services.

7. In any case of complaint of overcharging, the NIT Agartala may after
factual enquiry derecognizes the hospital, whose decision shall be final,
without any notice and this shall be without any prejudice to any other
action to be taken including recovery of overcharged amount.

8. During In-patient Department (IPD) treatment of the NITA beneficiary,
the hospitals would not ask the beneficiary to purchase separately
medicines from outside.

9. Serving NIT personnel and their dependents can avail facilities of doctor’s
consultations and investigations in outpatients department (OPD) of the
hospital. Consultation fees will be charged as per hospital rates.
However, for investigation the hospital will give 20% discount on hospital
rates for such investigation. NITA will reimburse as per the CGHS rates
towards ILS and rest of the amount would be borne by the beneficiary. fe

10. On production of NITA Identity Card and a valid referral by the
NITA, mentioning the bed entitlement, the hospital would provide
treatment facilities to the NIT beneficiaries subject to the condition
that after commencement of the procedure /treatment, the NITA
Beneficiaries is required to submit Medical form -97 under provision of

3

 


--- Page 5 ---
CS (MA) Rules 1944/Medical-2004 Form Set (for CGHS beneficiary) duly
filled in on completion of the procedure/treatment.

11. For in-door patients after treatment and discharge of the patient the
hospital will raise bills towards costs of treatments as per CGHS rates
and submit the bills directly to the office of the NITA. NITA will process
the bill for payment to the hospital concerned within 30 (thirty) days.

12. Any other services provided by the hospital to the NITA beneficiaries not
included in the package deal within the purview of CGHS or not, but
essential for recovery from illness, payment for such services be realized
by the hospital from the NITA beneficiary before discharge from the
hospital.

13. This Agreement contains the entire terms and conditions between the
two parties and nothing outside this Agreement shall be valid and
binding. This Agreement can be modified or altered only on written
agreement signed by both the parties.

14. The Agreement shall remain in force for a period of 3 (three) year, but
can be extended with mutual consent of both the parties.

15. Should the hospital get wind up or partnership is dissolved, the NIT
Agartala shall have the power to terminate the agreement but
termination of the agreement shall not relieve the hospital or their heirs
and legal representatives from the legal liability in respect of the services
provided by the hospital during the period when the Agreement was in
force,

16. The NIT Agartala shall have lien and reserve the right to retain and set
off against any sum which may from time to time be due to and payable
to the hospital hereunder any claim, which the NIT Agartala may have
against the hospital under this or any other agreement.

17. The first party and second party shail be at liberty at any time to
terminate this agreement by giving one month notice in writing to each
other for breach of any of the terms and conditions of this agreement and
the decision of the both the parties in this regards shall be final.
However, each side will be given opportunity to present its position before
any decision to terminate the agreement is taken.

18. In the event of any question, dispute or difference whatsoever at any
time arising under the conditions of Agreement or in any other manner
under this Agreement or in any way relating thereto or the true meaning
or interpretation of any of the provisions thereof (except as to any
matters for which the decision is specifically provided for in the condition
of Agreement} the same shall be referred for decision to an Arbitrator as
per the provisions of Arbitrator and Conciliation Act, 1996 and all
disputes will be subject to Agartala jurisdiction.

19. The hospital shall pay all expenses incidental to preparation and
stamping of this agreement.

20. All notices and references hereunder shall be deemed to have been duly
served and given to the hospital if delivered to the hospital or their
authorized agent or left at consent by registered post to the address
stated herein before and to the Director, NIT Agartala or sent by
registered post or left at his office during office hours on any working

day.

 


--- Page 6 ---
21. The Agreement shall be prepared in a single original copy. The original
copy shall be retained by NITA, and a photocopy of the same shall be
kept by the hospital.

In witness whereof, the Registrar on behalf of the NIT Agartala and above
named Hospital’ have hereinto set respective hands the day and year
first above written.

  
  

|B.

aa

 

GAUTAM HAZARIKA
Chiat Operating Officer
ILS Hospitals, Agartala.

Signed by signed by

1. Witness i. Witness / On
Signature Signature

Name Name LIANOT Kiwipe DERBNATI
Address Address /L6 +/OSP/TAR ES
2. Witness 2. Witness
ae ON D> AS
Signature Signature SStrwil ened Sy 80
Name Name SRA LEN DRE PSdOPR
Address Address _\VS Host VALS
