
--- Page 1 ---
 

   

Memorandum of Understanding

between
National Institute of Technology, Warangal, Telangana State,
and

National Institute of Technology, Agartala, Tripura State.

Contract Partners:

National Institute of Technology Warangal (NITW), Telangana State
and National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA), Tripura State

National Institute of Technology Warangal (NITW),Telangana State
and National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA), agree to enter
into a bilateral agreement for a tie-up to facilitate academic and
technical collaboration and therefore, the two Institutes, NITW co
NITA, are signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on the ay
of August, 2020, as per the articles set below.

Article-1.0: THE SCOPE OF MOU:

The scope of MOU covers collaborative R&D, academic interaction leading to
reforms in curriculum, student exchange associated with transfer of credits,
faculty exchange, sharing of resources, accessibility to sophisticated
instruments, sharing of knowledge of best practices.

Article-2.0

The activities under the agreement will be as described below for
collaboration and which form the schedule to this MOU. This schedule may
be amended by mutual agreement.

Page 1of 4


--- Page 2 ---
 

Article-2.1

NITW and NITA will submit collaborative research projects to various funding
agencies like DST, CSIR, etc. in the topics and areas of mutual interest. The
sharing of fund and manpower will be case specific and depending on the
detailing of the project concerned.

Article - 2.2

The instrumentation facilities, Laboratory and Library facilities of one of the
institutes will be made available for the research scholars, UG/PG students
doing their projects, faculty members working in the other institute.
Wherever charges are to be paid, concessional charges as decided by the
facility-providing institute will be paid from the funds of the joint-research
projects or research projects/other funds of the other institute.

Article-2.3

(a) The faculty members of each of the institutes may teach part of the
courses or give expert lectures at the other institute through video-
conferencing mode using NKN or possible media without prejudice to
their work and responsibilities at their home institute. .

(b) Faculty members from NITWI/NITA may visit and stay at other institute
and teach one or two courses for the full semester. They will interact with
the faculty members and develop collaborative research projects. The
host institute has to arrange the residential and temporary office
accommodation.

Article — 2.4

(a) |The UG/PG students of each of the institutes can take courses or do
projectworks/dissertationworks in the other institute (host institute).
The credits earned by the students in the host institute will be
transferred to the homeinstitute and will be considered for the
purpose of grading by mapping to the courses and credits as per the
curriculum of the home/ parent institute. Project guidance and its
continuous evaluation will be done by the faculty member (external
guide) at the host institute. One faculty member (internal guide) at
the home institute will also be assigned to each of such projects.
Dissertation/project report will be submitted to the home institute
through the internal guide for final evaluation. Grading of the
projects/dissertations will be done, based on continuous and final
evaluation as per the grading procedure of the home institute.

(b) The students exchange for a whole semester is permitted along with
necessary credit transfer in between both the institutes, NITA/ NITW.

Page 2 of 4


--- Page 3 ---
 

Article - 2.5

NITW and NITA will organize National/International
Conferences/Seminars/Symposia/workshops jointly in conformity to the
rules and regulation of both the institutes.

Article - 3.1

In addition, it is envisaged that each activity,that the parties wish to pursue
in accordance with the purpose of this MOU will be governed by terms and
conditions to be separately negotiated and mutually agreed upon by the
parties through the signing of one or more subsidiary agreements.

Article - 3.2
Any clause or article of the MOU may be modified or amended by mutual
agreement of NITW and NITA.

Article-4.1

In case of joint research projects, the research findings, patents and all
other intellectual property rights shall exclusively be owned by NITW and
NITA.

Article-4.2

The expenditure connected with securing and maintaining the Intellectual
Property Rights shall be shared between the two institutes (NITW and NITA)
proportionally,based on their respective intellectual, material and financial
contributions and decided on a case-to-case basis.

Article — 5.1

This MOU shall be effective for an initial period of five years from the date of
signing. Thereafter, this MOU may be extended for further periods of five
years or for any other period of time as deemed appropriate by both the
parties, subject to their mutual consent of any such extension to be made in
writing.

Either party may terminate this MOU by giving a written notice of
termination of at least three months in advance.

Article — 5.3

In the event of termination of MOU, for whatever reasons, both parties
agree to fulfil their respective commitments in respect of the students,
research scholars, faculty involved in the activities which are in vogue during


--- Page 4 ---
 

such termination time and MOU will be considered to be in force till
completion of such activities.

Article - 6.0

Arbitration

In case of any dispute arising out of this agreement, the heads of the
institutes shall endeavour to resolve such controversy or dispute by mutual
discussions and in good faith.

This MoU between NITW, and the NITA, Tripura is now established by the
signatures of the Directors of the two institutes.

For NIT Warangal, TelanganaFor NIT Agartala, Tripura

Fe Pee
Vi rah 18:08: 2020

 
 
 
  

(dur. N.V. Ramana Rao) (Prof. H K Sharma)
Director Director
eres Wer a. etisl Gare wai
: - Prof. H. K. Sharma
National Ineitute sisttenel / Director
. een S : ational Institute of Technol
Witnesses: Agartala 7
SY we
ow
ak eX
1.(Prof. A. Venu Gopal) i.
Dean Academic, NIT Warangal NIT Agartala a
cS Pw leg et
\4 i gd Step al Firvitesue
2. (Sri S. Goverdhan Rao) 2. f
Registrar, NIT Warangal NIT Agartala

Page 4 of 4
