
--- Page 1 ---
 

National Institute of Technology, Agartala, Tripura State.

Contract Partners :

Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Kolkata,
West Bengal State and National Institute of Technology Agartala

(NITA), Tripura State

Principal Agreement :
Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Kolkata

and National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA), agree to enter
into a bilateral agreement for a tie-up to facilitate academic and

technical collaboration and therefore, the two Institutes, IISER and

 


--- Page 2 ---
   

 

earned by the students in the host institute will be transferred to the home/

parent institute and will be considered for the purpose of grading by
mapping to the courses and credits as per the curriculum of the home/
parent institute. Project guidance and its continuous evaluation will be done

by the faculty member (external guide) at the host institute. One faculty
member (internal guide) at the home institute will also be assigned to each
of such projects. Dissertation/project report will be submitted to the home
institute through the internal guide for final evaluation. Grading of tne
-projects/dissertations will be done, based on continuous and final evaluaticn

as per the grading procedure of the home institute.

Article - 2.5
IISER and NITA will organize National/ International Conferences/ Seminars/

Symposia/ workshops jointly in conformity to the rwes and regulation of
he institutes.

 


--- Page 3 ---
Article - 3.1
In addition, it is envisaged that each activity, in view of flexibility ana

effectiveness of implementation that the parties wish to pursue in
accordance with the purpose of this MOU will be governed by terms and
conditions to be separately negotiated and mutually agreed upon by the
parties through the signing of one or more subsidiary agreements.

Article -— 3.2
Any clause or article of the MOU may be modified or amended by mutual

agreement of IISER and NITA.

 

 

Inteliectua! Property Rights shall be shared between tne two institutes
(IISER and NITA) proportionally, based on their respective intellectual,
material and financial contributions and decided on a case-to-case Dasis.

Article -— 5.0
5.1 This MOU shall be effective for an initial period of five years from the
date of signing. Thereafter, this MOU may be extended for further periods

of five years or for any other period of time as deemed appropriate by both
the parties, subject to their mutual consent of any such extension to be

made in writing.

5.2 Either party may terminate this MOU by giving a written notice of
termination of at least three months in advance citing valid reason wnicn is
mutually agreeable. If agreed by both the parties, a third party negotiator
may be entrusted and judge the veracity of reason/ factor / cause cited by

the institute.

5.3 In the event of termination of MOU, for whatever reasons, both parties
agree to fulfil their respective commitments in respect of the students,
research scholars, faculty involved in the activities which are in vogue during
such termination time and MOU will be considered to be in force till

 


--- Page 4 ---
Article — 6.0
Arbitration

 

Director
IISER Kolkata, West Bengal State

 

Director

 

NIT Agartala Dr. Prasun Chakraporti

Chairman (IR & AA)
N.1.1., Agartala.

 

Page 4of 4
