
--- Page 1 ---
 

 

Sasa Aer

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

H ACT / BETWEEN

 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
faniferat / JIRANIA - 799046

afta frau / WEST TRIPURA, PINT / TRIPURA:

sit /-AND

 

Sea Yat sraftar svat he
NORTH EASTERN SPACE APPLICATIONS CENTRE
3etivat fasirar / DEPARTMENT OF SPACE
sXe ACH / GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

afar / UMIAM - 793103, Aurea / MEGHALAYA


--- Page 2 ---
     

Government of M

halaya

   
  

 
 

Certificate Issued Date
Account Reference

Unique Doc. Reference —
Purchased by a
Description of Document
Property Description I :
Consideration Price (Rs,)

 
   
    
 
   
   
  

   

  

6

  

o
2

  

          
 

First Party NATIONAL NSTITUDE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA :
Second Party Moe 2. =
Stamp Duty Paid By . °
Stamp Duty Amount(Rs.) ; %

  

 

 

 

 

i iiasaxaaiie stun ear oguedina weno cc himpaekae reso Please write or type below this line © LO SCO oe eee OO oS

 
 

This otitrandien of eas is entered into at NESAC, Umiam, (at Umiam,
Ri-Bhoi district, Meghalaya, PIN - 793103) on 24th day of July, 2023 (24/07/2023)
hereinafter called MoU

 
      

BETWEEN

The National Institute of Technology, Agartala, Tripura, duly represented by its
Director, having its office at Jirania, West Tripura, Tripura, PIN - 799046(which
term or expression shall mean and include, unless repugnant to the context, its
successors, assignees, and administrators) of the FIRST PARTY

AND

 
       
   
  

 

- 0008177492

wey
:

   
  

   
   
    

: ve
Statutory Alert: a i
+. The authenticity of this Stantp io festarm.co tock Holding ee
Any discrepancy in the details on nis Centificate ant ‘as S evotane 5 on nthe webs e

 
 

| 2 The onus of checking the legitimacy i¢ on. the users of the certificate
3. in case of any discrepancy please inform the Competent Authonty

 
 

cr

 


--- Page 3 ---
MoU: NIT Agartala and NESAC

North Eastern Space Applications Centre, Department of Space, Government of
India, Umiam, Meghalaya, duly represented by its Director, having its office at
Umiam, Ri-Bhoi district, Meghalaya, PIN-793103 (which term or expression shall
mean and include, unless repugnant to the context, its successors, assignees, and
administrators) of the SOCOND PARTY

1. Preamble

WHEREAS, The National Institute of Technology, Agartala (hereinafter referred to as
“NIT AGARTALA’) is one of the 31 National Institutes of Technology of India and was
established in 1965 (erstwhile Tripura Engineering College). The Institute's mission is
to help to improve the economic development of the country particularly the North-
East states and also the public systems, through pursuit of excellence in technical
education, research, consultancy and training. Presently the Institute offers nine UG
courses and twenty-four PG courses in several fields along with Post-Doctoral
Fellowships. This Institute is autonomous under NIT Act passed by the parliament on
31° March 2006 .The National Institute of Technology Agartala has been constituted
by the honorable Govt. of India with the mission to herald a new chapter of
development in the country, particularly, in the North-East states, through pursuit of
excellence in technical education and research. In an era of renaissance in technical
education in north east, the honorable ministry of Human Resources Development
has conferred the status of “Institute of National Importance”.

AND WHEREAS, The North Eastern Space Applications Centre, was established on
sth September, 2000 under Meghalaya Societies Registration Act, 1983 as a joint
initiative of Department of Space (DOS) and North Eastern Council (NEC). North
Eastern Space Applications Centre, (hereinafter referred to as “NESAC”), is an
autonomous organization under the administrative control of Department of Space,
Govt. of India with a vision to play catalytic role in holistic development of North
Eastern Region of India by providing Space Science and Technology support at all
possible levels.

AND Whereas, NIT Agartala and NESAC, hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘the
Parties’ and individually as ‘the Party’, fori the purpose of furthering cooperation in
education and research and development activities with focus on application of
Artificial Intelligence (Al), Machine Learning (ML) and Deep Learning (DL) in different
areas of Space Applications, between these two institutions, hereby affirm their intent
to promote such academic collaborations and to participate in various academic and
research endeavors AND, therefore, for and on behalf of Hon'ble President of India,
and being duly authorized on Her behalf, the Director of NIT-Agartala and the Director
of NESAC, formally agree on this Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) as follows:

S iy ay

Signature of First Party signature of Second Party


--- Page 4 ---
2.

 

Objectives

This MoU envisages to fulfilling of the following objectives:

2.1

2.2

2.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

3.

Application of Al, ML, and DL: NIT Agartala and NESAC shall take up joint
projects/activities towards utilization of Al, ML, and DL in different areas of
Space Applications, particularly in the field of geospatial technology;

Internship Program: UG/PG/PhD students of either NIT-Agartala or NESAC
will visit the other institute for period of 2 to 8 weeks to attend a summer
internship program either specifically designed or offered or apart of ongoing
research at NIT AGARTALA or NESAC. Institutes may charge a fee per
participant, on mutual agreeable terms, to cover the project related costs, if any;

Joint Degree Programs: NIT AGARTALA and NESAC will explore possibilities
of offering joint Bachelors, Master and PhD programs in both the traditional and
the interdisciplinary areas of specialization of high relevance to both the Parties,
as per existing norms. NIT AGARTALA and NESAC will consider making
provisions to allow postgraduate students of the other Party to do semester-long
courses or carry out research in their respective institutes. The fees for doing
these activities will be decided separately/ jointly by both the Parties.

Faculty Support: Both the institutes may permit its faculty to visit the other
institute for short durations ranging from one week to one year for teaching
and/or research, on mutually agreeable terms;

Master’s and Doctoral programs at NIT AGARTALA: NIT Agartala may allow
NESAC faculty and students (research scholars) to pursue their Masters and/or
Doctoral programs at NIT AGARTALA on a full-time basis or part-time basis, as
per existing norms at NIT AGARTALA;

Short-term Programs and Workshops: To jointly organize short term
certificate course, training program, continuation programs, seminars,
conferences on topics of mutual interest and invite faculty members from both
the institution to participate.

Coordinators

The Director, NIT AGARTALA, and the Director, NESAC, shall be primarily
responsible for this cooperation at NIT AGARTALA and NESAC respectively. They
may delegate their authority to coordinators whose responsibility will be to:

3.1

 

Initiate action at their respective institutions to implement the provisions of this
MoU,

Sts Bpyi9 —
Sianature of Se

~ nn en Dae
YECONG katy


--- Page 5 ---
3.2

3.3

3.4

4.1

4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5

5.1

5.2

5.3

 

MoU: NIT Agartala and NESAC

Coordinate and monitor the activities initiated under this MoU,

Undertake official visits to each other's institution to operate articles coming
under this MoU, and

Ensure national regulations and customs be mutually respected by all.
General Provisions and Financial Obligations

This MoU shall have an initial duration of FIVE years from the last date of
signature, however, may be terminated upon a six month notice by either party
of such intent. This MoU may be extended further, in five-year terms, after
review and by mutual written agreement.

This agreement may be amended and supplemented in writing at any time by
the mutual consent of the Parties in writing.

This MoU is a non-binding expression of the current intentions of the Parties, and
neither Party will incur nor be bound to any legal obligations or expenses
hereunder to the other Party until and unless definitive agreements have been
negotiated and approved by the management levels of each Party.

Both Parties will maintain their independent identity, logo symbol, image and
make no other claims in their publicity material, media, websites, which is
termed to be beyond the scope and nature of activities as incorporated in this
memorandum. Each Party will consult with and concur with the other Party to
use the names of the officials’/faculty members, and the logo for the activities
under this MoU including dissemination of results and outcome under this
MOU, in public.

There will be no financial obligations on both Parties under this MoU.

Intellectual Property

Each party will ensure appropriate protection of Intellectual Property Rights
(IPR) generated from cooperation pursuant to the agreement, consistent with
domestic laws, rules and regulations of India.

In case of research is carried out solely and separately by the party or
research results are obtained through the sole and separate efforts of the
party, the party concerned alone will apply for the grant of IPR and once
granted, the IPR will be solely owned by the party concerned.

In case of research results obtained through joint activities, the grant of

Ns sey sy

Sig@ature of First Party Signature of Second Party


--- Page 6 ---
5.4

6.1

6.2

6.3

Y,

NIT Agartala and NES

intellectual property rights will be sought by both the parties jointly and once
granted these rights will be jointly owned by the parties. Each party shall notify
the other of any joint IPR promptly after a disclosure is received by their
respective IP office.

The parties shall not assign any rights and obligations arising out of the IPR
generated to inventions/activities carried out under the MoU to any third party
without prior written consent of the other party.

Dispute Settlement and Liability

Any dispute, controversy, or claim arising out of or in relation to this MoU,
including the validity, invalidity, breach or termination thereof, shall be settled by
referring the case to the arbitration, of a sole arbitrator. The arbitration shall be
subject to the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and its amendment at 5"
and 7" Schedule vide Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 or
as may be amended from time to time.

Except for loss or damages caused through gross negligence or intent, the
Parties shall have no liability to each hereunder.

All legal disputes between the parties shall be subject to the jurisdictions of
courts situated at Meghalaya, India.

Legal Relationship

This MoU shall be construed as a statement of purpose to promote a genuine and
mutually beneficial collaboration between the Parties. Nothing in this MoU shall be
constructed to create any legal relationship between the Parties. Details of specific
cooperation will be determined on a case-by-case basis and by mutual agreement
consistent with this memorandum of understanding.

8.

8.1

8.2:

signature o

Confidential Information

All information and documents to be exchanged pursuant to the MoU will be
kept confidential by the Parties and will be used subject to such terms as each
Party may specify. The Parties will not use the information for purpose other
than that specified without the prior written consent of the other Party.

All confidential information shall remain the exclusive property of the disclosing
Party. The Parties agree that this MoU and the disclosure of the confidential
information do not grant any license, interest, or right to the recipient in respect
to any intellectual property right of the other Party.

  

= oo Sexe
First Party


--- Page 7 ---
MoU: NIT Agartala and NESAC

8.3. Unpublished information, whether oral, in writing, or otherwise, discovered or
conceived by the scientists or technicians and exchanged under the provisions of
this MoU will not be transmitted to a third party, unless otherwise agreed by the

Parties in writing.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto had executed this MoU in two originals in
the English language, one for each Party. In witness thereof, both the Parties have
caused this MoU to be signed by their duly authorized representatives on the day,

month, and year first above written.

Signed, sealed, and delivered in the presence of:

Prof. Sarat Kumar Patra
Director
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Jirania-799046, West Tripura, Tripura
Date: 24.07. 23 Nh i

Wi. WRI BAR War

Prof. S. K. Patra
‘ Director
National Institute of Technology
Agartala.
Witness
Ws scasas eR eeaaeeims amennemenen ameter une nannenenaann

 

ya

Seprerrezy vd fear)
Dean ( D)
Blo tho Fo, aren / NIT, Agartala.

Bee vesersa srsunicare Hea Taip YG SRG RASTKOEE SE TRUDE TOIGGA ie Sn

yy

Dr Shiv Prasad Aggarwal

Director

North Eastern Space Applications Centre
Umiam-793103, Shillong, Meghalaya

Date: 2Y.0J-2023

Si. wa WH argaret / Or. S P Aggarwal
/ Director
Bae GAT steer STAT Be/Novth Eastem Space Applications Centre
UIA ULaTR/Govt of india. Saher rArT/Dept. of Space
aftrers/Umiam - 793103, Feared /Meghalaya

  

Witness

’ faeom

coi KK San ie Ualnka eae sald Dee Ree
id, RAB NES

SHYA™M SO KUNDU
Head , SASH
