
--- Page 1 ---
 

MEMORANDUM OF
UNDERSTANDING (MoU

BETWEEN

NATIONAL LAW UNIVERSITY TRIPURA

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
(NIT Agartala)

FOR ACADEMIC, RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS &
STUDENTS EXCHANGE PROGRAMMES

 


--- Page 2 ---
Memorandum of Understanding
between
National Law University Tripura
and

National Institute of Technology Agartala

Contract Partners:
National Law University Tripura (NLU Tripura), and National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA).

Principal Agreement: |

National Law University Tripura and National Institute of Technology Agartala, agree to enter into a
bilateral agreement for a tie-up to facilitate academic and technical collaboration and therefore, the two
institutes, NLU Tripura and NITA, are signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on this
the... Jt Sly » 2924.., as per the articles set below.

Article-1.0: THE SCOPE OF MOU:

The scope of MOU covers collaborative R&D, academic interaction leading to reforms in curriculum,
student exchange associated with transfer of credits, faculty exchange, sharing of resources, accessibility
to sophisticated instruments, sharing of knowledge of best practices and joint outreach programmes.

Article-2.0

The activities under the agreement will be as described below for collaboration and form the schedule to
this MOU. This schedule may be amended by mutual agreement agreeable to both parties and such
amendments will form part of this MOU.

Article-2.1

NLU Tripura and NITA will submit collaborative research projects to various funding agencies like DST,
CSIR, etc. in the topics and areas of mutual interest. The sharing of funds and manpower will be case-
specific and depend on the details of the project concerned.

Article - 2.2

The instrumentation facilities, Laboratory and Library facilities of one of the institutes will be made
available for the research scholars, UG/PG students doing their projects, faculty members working in the
other institute. Wherever charges are to be paid, concessional charges as decided by the facility-
providing institute will be paid from the funds of the joint-research projects or research projects/other
funds of the other institute.

Article-2.3

The faculty members of each of the institutes may teach part of the courses or give expert lectures at the
other institute through video-conferencing mode using NKN or possible media without prejudice to their
work and responsibilities at their home institute.

 


--- Page 3 ---
 

Article - 2.4

The UG/PG students of each of the institutes can take courses or do project work/dissertation work in the
other institute (host institute). The credits earned by the students in the host institute will be transferred
to the home/ parent institute and will be considered for the purpose of grading by mapping to the courses
and credits as per the curriculum of the home/ parent institute. Project guidance and its continuous
evaluation will be done by the faculty member (external guide) at the host institute. One faculty member
(internal guide) at the home institute will also be assigned to each of such projects. The
dissertation/project report will be submitted to the home institute through the internal guide for final
evaluation. Grading of the projects/dissertations will be done, based on continuous and final evaluation
as per the grading procedure of the home institute. The students have to pay the requisite semester fees
of the other institute (host institute) as well.

Article - 2.5

NLU Tripura and NITA will organize National/ International Conferences/ Seminars/ Symposia/ workshops
jointly in conformity with the rules and regulations of both institutes.

Article - 3.1

In addition, it is envisaged that each activity, in view of the flexibility and effectiveness of implementation
that the parties wish to pursue in accordance with the purpose of this MOU will be governed by terms
and conditions to be separately negotiated and mutually agreed upon by the parties through the signing
of one or more subsidiary agreements.

Article - 3.2

Any clause or article of the MOU may be modified or amended by mutual agreement of NLU Tripura and
NITA.

Article-4.0

4.1 In case of joint research projects, the research findings, patents and all other intellectual property
rights shall exclusively be owned by NLU Tripura and NITA.

4.2 The expenditure connected with securing and maintaining Intellectual Property Rights shall be shared
between the two institutes (NLU Tripura and NITA) proportionally, based on their respective intellectual,
material and financial contributions and decided on a case-to-case basis.

Article — 5.0

5.1 This MOU shall be effective for an initial period of five years from the date of signing. Thereafter, this
MOU may be extended for further periods of five years or for any other period of time as deemed
appropriate by both parties, subject to their mutual consent of any such extension to be made in writing.

9.2 Either party may terminate this MOU by giving a written notice of termination of at least three months
in advance citing a valid reason which is mutually agreeable. If agreed by both parties, a third-party
negotiator may be entrusted and judge the veracity of the reason/factor/cause cited by the institute.

5.3 In the event of termination of MOU, for whatever reasons, both parties agree to fulfil their respective
commitments in respect of the students, research scholars, and faculty involved in the activities which
are in vogue during such termination time and MOU will be considered to be in force till completion of
such activities.

 


--- Page 4 ---
Article - 6.0
Arbitration

 

in case of any dispute arising out of this agreement, the heads of the institutes shall endeavour to resolve
such controversy or dispute by mutual discussions and in good faith. This MoU between NLU Tripura,
and the NITA, is now established by the signatures of the Directors of the two institutes.

For NLU Tripura

Vice-Cha ete) Ye Tripura

Vice-Chancellor,
Law University, Tripura.

Witnesses:

NAVE 24}

NLU Tripura

Prof. (Dr.) Nechiketa Mittal
Registrar,
Naflenal Law University, Tripura.

be) tt
NLU Tripura LRA ww

Date: ot for/ro24

For NIT Agartala C mI
Me
(Prof. Sarat aay qr

‘SK. Patra
Dil Ap etaector
} 0

f
Roartane eomnology

1, egg
NIT Agartala
warraraear ( tera )
Dean (Academic)
40 to Ho STAT NIT, Aaartals

Ciao
- O

NIT Agartala

Dr. Manish Pal
Professor & Chairman, AA & IR
NIT Agartala.

2

NIT AGARTALA

 
