
--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
(MoU)

BETWEEN

*
IISER KOLKATA

| Indian Institute of Science Education and Research
| | Kolkata (IISER Kolkata)

and

 

National Institute of Technology Agartala
(NIT Agartala)

FOR

ACADEMIC, RESEARCH
COLLABORATIONS & STUDENTS
EXCHANGE PROGRAMMES

Place:

 

Date: oot [>

 


--- Page 2 ---
e
IISER KOLKATA

Memorandum of Understanding

between
Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Kolkata
and

National Institute of Technology Agartala.

Contract Partners:

Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Kolkata, West Bengal State and
National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA).

Principal Agreement:

Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Kolkata and National Institute of
Technology Agartala, agree to enter into a bilateral agreement for a tie-up to facilitate academic
and technical collaboration and therefore. the two Institutes, IISER-K and NITA, are signing a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on this the...07°77.. AY4.. 2024... as per the articles
set below.

Article-1.0: THE SCOPE OF MOU:

The scope of MOU covers collaborative R&D, academic interaction leading to reforms in
curriculum, student exchange associated with the transfer of credits as detailed later, faculty
exchange, sharing of resources, accessibility to sophisticated instruments, sharing of knowledge

of best practices and joint outreach programmes.

 


--- Page 3 ---
Article-2.0

The activities under the agreement will be as described below for collaboration and which form
the schedule for this MOU. This schedule may be amended by mutual agreement agreeable for
both the parties and such amendments will form part of this MOU.

Article-2.1

IISER-K and NITA will submit collaborative research projects to various funding agencies like
DST, CSIR, etc. in the topics and areas of mutual interest. The sharing of fund and manpower
will be case specific and depending on the detailing of the project concerned.

Article - 2.2

The instrumentation facilities, Laboratory and Library facilities of one of the institutes will be
made available for the research scholars, UG/PG students doing their projects, faculty members
working in the other institute. Wherever charges are to be paid, concessional charges as
decided by the facility-providing institute will be paid from the funds of the joint-research
projects or research projects/other funds of the other institute.

Article-2.3

The faculty members of each of the institutes may teach part of the courses or give expert
lectures at the other institute through video-conferencing mode using NKN or possible media
without prejudice to their work and responsibilities at their home institute.

Article — 2.4

The UG/PG students of NITA can take courses or do project works/dissertation works at IISER
Kolkata for a maximum tenure of two semesters. The credits earned by the students in the host
institute will be transferred to the Academic Bank of Credits (ABC) through the home/ parent
institute and will be considered for the purpose of grading by mapping to the courses and
credits as per the curriculum of the home/ parent institute. Project guidance and its continuous
evaluation will be done by the faculty member (external guide) at the host institute. One faculty
member (internal guide) at the home institute will also be assigned to each of such projects.
Dissertation/project report will be submitted to the home institute through the internal guide for
final evaluation. Grading of the projects/dissertations will be done, based on continuous and
final evaluation as per the grading procedure of the home institute. The students have to pay the
requisite semester fees of IISER Kolkata as well.

ov

 


--- Page 4 ---
Article — 2.5

IISER-K and NITA will organize National/ International Conferences/ Seminars/ Symposia/
workshops jointly in conformity to the rules and regulation of both the institutes.

Article — 3.1

In addition, it is envisaged that each activity, in view of flexibility and effectiveness of
implementation that the parties wish to pursue in accordance with the purpose of this MOU will
be governed by terms and conditions to be separately negotiated and mutually agreed upon by
the parties through the signing of one or more subsidiary agreements.

Article — 3.2

Any clause or article of the MOU may be modified or amended by mutual agreement of IISER-
K and NITA.

Article-4.0

4.1 In case of joint research projects, the research findings, patents and all other intellectual
property rights shall exclusively be owned by ISER-K and NITA.

4.2 The expenditure connected with securing and maintaining the Intellectual Property Rights
shall be shared between the two institutes (IISER-K and NITA) proportionally, based on their
respective intellectual, material and financial contributions and decided on a case-to-case basis.

Article — 5.0

5.1 This MOU shall be effective for an initial period of five years from the date of signing.
Thereafter, this MOU may be extended further as deemed appropriate by both the parties.

5.2 Either party may terminate this MOU by giving a written notice of termination of at least
three months in advance citing valid reason which is mutually agreeable. If agreed by both the
parties, a third party negotiator may be entrusted and judge the veracity of reason/ factor / cause
cited by the institute.

5.3 In the event of termination of MOU, for whatever reasons, both parties agree to fulfil their
respective commitments in respect of the students, research scholars, faculty involved in the
activities which are in vogue during such termination time and MOU will be considered to be
in force till completion of such activities.

wh

 


--- Page 5 ---
Article — 6.0
Arbitration

In case of any dispute arising out of this agreement, the heads of the institutes shall endeavour
to resolve such controversy or dispute by mutual discussions and in good faith. The jurisdiction

will be of Kolkata in case of legal issues.

This MoU between IISER-K, and the NITA, is now established by the signatures of the

Directors of the two institutes.

For IISER Kolkata

(Prof. Sunil Kumar Khare)

Director

IISER Kolkata, West Bengal
fe31s / Director

aNd fears Ren yd apeert tert steer

Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Kolkata

(Under Ministry of HRD, Govt. of india)
ATETYX/Mohanpur -741 246,4/Fa4 e1Te1/West Bengal

Witnesses:

Deed blalinchor ye

IISER Kolkata

soma fram ond, Dean of Academic Affairs
aaa fag feral Wa set Wea eee
indian Institute of Science Education and Research Kolkata

t, of India}
Under Ministry of Education, Govt, of
denn Mohanpur-741246, 400" Nadia
uigan areas West Bengal, Wt) India

&

IISER Kolkata

Dean of Intemational Relations and Oudresch
smidwigae ?:1e | er ee
Indian Institute of Suicrive Lducatur: and Research Kolkata

of Education, Govt. of India)

(Under Ministry 1
API Adahenpen - 741 246, ee Ware / West Bengal, india

For NIT Agartala

(Prof. Sarat Kumar Patra)

Director

NIT Agartala. ou
* 2 ATR
Prof. s. K. Patra

Pree / Direc
National tor

1. aber

NIT Agartala

wt. Usite aret
Prof. Rajib Saha
are anger ( tifarr are)
Dean (Academic Affairs)
SRA
NIT Agartala

Sgn

NIT Agartala
Or. Manish Pal
Professor & Chairman, AA & IR
NIT Agartala.

 
