
--- Page 1 ---
 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MoU)

BETWEEN

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA

N'TFP, CENTER FOR EXECELLENCE, FOREST DEPARTMENT,

GOVERNMENT OF TRIPURA

FOR

COLLABORATION ON RESEARCH, TRAINING,
CONSULTANCY AND INCUBATION

Caf


--- Page 2 ---
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

This Memorandum of Understanding (hereinafier called as the "MOU") is entered into on this
the Q4 th __day of Oetn bore 2022, by und between
Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Agartala,
Jirania, West Tripura, Tripura 799046, represented herein by the Registrar (1), NIT
Agartala, hereinatter referred as ‘First Party’, which expression, unless excluded by or
repugnant to the subject or context shall include its successors — in-oflice, administrators and
assiens.

AND

NTFP, Center for Excellence, Forest Department, Government of Tripura, JICA Project
Building, PO: Gandhigram, Agartala — 799012 represented herein by its Director, NCE,
hereinafter referred to as “Second Party”, which expression, unless excluded by or repugnant
to the subject or context shall include its successors — in-office, administrators and assigns.

First Party and Second Party are hereinafter jointly referred to as ‘Parties’ and individually as
“Party”

WHEREAS:

Al Department of Chemical Engineering, the First Party, is an academic and research
unit‘departinent in NIT Agartala, which is a Centrally funded autonomous higher
education Institute and an Institute of National Importance under NIT Act of
Parliament No, 29, 2007, Government of India. The Department of Chemical
Engineering is offering Bachelor, Master and Doctoral level Education program in
Chemical Engineering and undertakes, testing, consultancy, sponsored research and

development and training activities,

B) NTFP, Center for Excellence, Forest Department, Government of Tripura, the Second
Party is an institution established under Tripura JICA Project engaged in facilitating the
management of Non-Timber Forest Products of Tripura, facilitate NTFP activities as a
means of livelihood for the masses on a sustainable basis, to disseminate technolory
information and enterprise development, and to take up capacity building for

harnessing the rich biodiversity of the North-cast States.
C) The Parties agree to enter into a MoU and considering it expedient and in their mutual

interest to collaborate with each other as strategic partner to promote knowledge and

excellence in developing Non-Timber Forest Products of Tripura through research,

wit

 


--- Page 3 ---
training, consultancy, incubation, and work association,

BD) This MOU sets out the general terms and conditions which both parties are willing to
abide.

. NOW THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS
SET FORTH IN THIS MOU, THE PARTIES HERE TO AGREE AS FOLLOWS:


--- Page 4 ---
Cl eee ea) re 2 ee

CLAUSE 1
PURPOSE

Ba | Both Parties are united by common interests and objectives, and they shall establish
channels of communication and co-operation that will promote and adyance their

< respective operations. The Parties shall keep each other informed of potential
opportunities and shall share all information that may be relevant to secure additional

opportunities for one another.

1.2 First Parly’s and Second Party's co-operation will facilitate effective utilization of the
intellectual capabilities of the First Party providing significant inputs to the Sccond
Parly in developing suitable teaching/training/research systems, keeping in mind the

needs of the industry,

1.3 The Parties shall cooperate with each other and agree to negotiate in a timely manner
all relevant agreements, deeds and documents (the ‘Definitive Documents’) as may be
required to give effect to the actions contemplated in terms of this MOU. The term of
Definitive Documents shall be mutually decided between the Parties. Along with the
Definitive Documents, this MOU shall represent the entire understanding as to the
subject matter hereof and shall supersede any prior understanding between the Parties

on the subject matter hereo!.

CLAUSE 2
OBJECTIVES & SCOPE of Mol

2.1 NTFP, Center for Excellence and Department of Chemical Engineering NIT Agartala will
work together for developing technological solution related to facilitating the management
of Non-Timber Forest Products of Tripura and implementing project proposals on
mutually agreed terms and condition for which separate MOU can be framed on case to

case basis.

2.2 NTFP, Center for Execllence agrees to work with Department of Chemical Engineering
NiVAgartala to provide the platform of technology development interface which can
subsequently exfoliate to the launch of an incubation facility at Chemical Engineering
N(TAgartala.

7 ie


--- Page 5 ---
?.3 NIFP, Center for Excellence and the Chemical Engineering NIT Agartala can plan
seminar’ lectures’ workshops! webinars for the young and potential Incubatees and

entrepreneurs.

2.4 NTFP, Center for Excellence may consider funding seats for M.Tech and Ph.D candidates

< to the Department of Chemical Engineering NIT Agartala, provided that the funded
M.Tech and PED candidates solely work on the mutually agreed projects and problems

related to the management of Non-Timber Forest Products of Tripura. In prospective

cases. joint supervision of the students would be considered depending upon the available

expertise with NTFP, Center for Excellence and mutual consent on documented terms and

conditions. For the purpose of the academic program or any other program undergone

joimtly under the purview of the MoU, NTFP. Center for Excellence may use the name of

the Department of Chemical Engineering NIT Agartala on their website and other

marketing tools with prior approval on a case to case basis on mutually agreed terms and

condition and vice versa.

2.5 NTFP, Center for Excellence agrees in the developing an Instrumentational facility on
mutually agreed and documented terms and conditions which can be decided over case lo
case basis at the Department of Chemical Engineering NIT Agartala for testing and

characterization of Non-Timber Forest Products of Tripura.

2.4 NTFP, Center for Excellence and the Department of Chemical Engineering NIT Agartala
agrees in conducting Skill Development activities, Guest lecturers / seminars and

webinars jointly, use each other infrastructural support,

2.7 NTFP, Center for Excellence and the Department of Chemical Engineering MIT Agartala
agrees to collaborate towards developing R&D project proposals for consideration at
yarious central and state funding agencies and would jointly execute the approved projects
successfully on mutually agreed terms and condition for which separate MOU can be

framed on case to case basis.

CLAUSE 3
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
By entering into this MoU the Parties undertake:
3.1, To protect cach other's intellectual property and intellectual property righis

3.2 Not to use each other's intellectual properly without the prior written consent of the other

fy a -


--- Page 6 ---
3.4 Ensure the contidentiality of such intellectual property as provided in the Section on
Confidentialiny

3.4 Not to use each other's intellectual property should this Mol! be dissolved or terminated at
any time,

3,5 To render itself liable, m case of infringement, to all such damages, penalties, action as
available to other party under the law.

The Parties agree that neither of them shall gain by virtue of this MOU any right of ownership or

any other interest, right or tithe of copyright, patents, trade secrets, trademarks, or any other

intellectual property rights by other party, and nothing herein shall mean nor shall be construed to

mean that they are at any time assigned, licensed. or otherwise alienated to the other party. nor

other party shall be entitled to claiin any right, title or interest therein at any time. All inventions,

innovations, or ideas developed in the course of providing services to a client shall belong to party

who developed them during the project‘assiznment, If the parties undertake any joint development

in the course of providing services ta a client under this MoU. any such joint development will be

eoverned by separate agreement to be negotiated in good faith by the parties.

CLAUSE 4
CONFIDENTIALITY
4.1 Both Parties, NTFP, Center for Excellence and NIT Agartala acknowledge that certain
confidential information may be disclosed by one party to the other party. The Party that
owns and/or discloses the confidential information 1s hereatter referred to as the “disclosing
party” and the Party receiving or accessing such confidential information is referred to as the
recelving party during the tenure of this MoU or performance of the respective obligations
under the resultant definitive agreement hereunder. Confidential Information means all
information identified as confidential, including but not hrnited to information concerning
intellectual property rights, copyrights, ideas, data, trade seerets, know-how, formulac,
processes, inventions, network conligurations, system architecture, designs, flowcharts,
drawing, proprietary information, and any other confidential or proprietary information the
disclosure of which might harm or destroy a competitive advantage of the disclosing party.
4.3. The receiving party shall not directly or indirectly disclose to any third party other than its
employees. affiliates and authorized representatives any information concerning the
disclosing parties intellectual or copyright information without prior written permission of
the disclosing party,
The obligations of receiving party shall not extend to any information which
{i} is or becomes a matter of public knowledge
{ii} isa lawful possession of the receiving parly

{iit} is received from a third party whe lawfully acquired with due permission


--- Page 7 ---
(iv) is disclosed by the disclosing party with prior written approval
(vy) independently developed by the recelving party
(vi) disclosed by receiving party under legal process.

4.3 The parties acknowledge to limit the disclosure of confidential information referred under this
Mol to those individuals within their organization who legitimately need to know the
information

4.4 The parties acknowledge ta consider this MoL! as a confidential information and agrees to
neither publicize or make public announcement concerning the terms or nature of the
relationship or this MoU without prior written consent of the other party.

4.5 The parties acknowledge that any breach by thern of their respective obligations under this
Mol! may cause irreparable harm to the other party for which remedies at law may be
inadequate and that in the event of such breach either party shall be entitled to seek equitable
relief in addition to other remedies provided hereunder or available under the relevant
provision of law.

4.6 Upon termination or dissolution of this MoU, or upon earlier demand thereof each party shall
al the other party's option either destroy or return all properties containing the other party's
confidental mtormation

4.7, The confidential obligations under this section shall survive during this term of this Mol and
three (3) years thereafter,

4.8. Each Party undertakes that it shall not at any time disclose to any person any confidential
information concering the business, affairs, customers, clients or suppliers of the other Party
or ofany member of the proup to which the other Party belongs, except as permitted by
clause mentioned in this section.

4.9 Fach party may disclose the other Party's confidential information:

{a} to its emplovees, officers, representatives or advisers who need to know such
information for the purposes of the evaluation of the envisaged co-operation and the
negotiation of the Definitive Documents. Hach Party shall ensure that its employees,
officers, representatives or advisersto whom it discloses the other Party's confidential
information camply with this clause 4; and

(b) as may be required by law. a court of competent jurisdiction or any governmental or
regulatery authority.

4.10. No Party shall use the other Party's confidential information for any purpose other than the

evaluation of the envisaged co-operation and the negotiation of the Definitive Documents,

4.11. Fach Party reserves all rights in its confidential information. The disclosure of contidential

information by one Party does not give the other Party ar any other person any licence or

other right in respect of any cconfidentialinformation beyond the rights expressly set out in

this MOM or the Definitive Decuments.

Gf)


--- Page 8 ---
;

4.4% Except as expressly stated in this MOU or the Definitive Documents, neither Party makes
any express or implied warranty or representation concerning its confidential information,

including but not limited te the accuracy or completeness of the confidential information,

CLAUSE 5

VALIDITY
3.1 The MoU shall be effective from the date of execution hereof and shall remain in force for a
period of three (3) years or until terminated by either party as above or replaced by a
definitive agreement between the parties, whichever occur first. The parlics may mutually

agree Lo extend the period of this Mol,

CLAUSE 6
DISPUTE RESOLUTION

6.1 Any dispute(s) arising out or in connection with this MoL! shall, as far as possible, be settled
amicably by mutual negotiations between the Parties hereto dailmg which the following shall
apphy:

6.2 Any unsettled dispute or difference shall be referred to the arbitration of three arbitrators, of
which one be appointed by NTFP, Center for Excellence and other by NIT Agurtala. The two
arbitrator shall then appoint a third arbitrator. [he arbitration proceedings shall be regulated by
the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 and the venue shall be in Agartala,
Tripura, and the language shall be in English.

6.3 Arbitration may be commenced by any party hereto giving written notice to the other party of an
unsettled dispute that such dispute has been referred to arbitration. Any award rendered by the
arbitrator shall be conclusive and binding upon the parties hereto.

6.4 This provision for arbitration shall be specifically enforeeable by the parties and the decision of
the arbitrator in accordance with the governing laws of India shall be final and bindingupon the
parties hereto,

CLAUSE 7
IURISDICTION

7.1 The courts in Agartala, ‘Tripura shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute, differences or

claims arising out of this Agreement. If either Party employs attorneys to enforce any rights arising

out of or relating to this Agreement, the prevailing Party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs

and allorneys' fees.


--- Page 9 ---
CLAUSE &
TERMINATION OF Moll
8.1 Either party shall upon written notice of sixty (60) days to the other, withdraw fram or terminate
negotiations or terminate this Mol at any time without cause and no such withdrawalor termination
for whatever reason will be deemed to be in bad faith or otherwise give rise to any liability to either
party provided the obligations assigned to with respect to the relevant definitive agreement under this
Mol are discharged without dispute. On termination or expiry of this Mol each party will return all
property belongings to other purty and hereby undertakes not to use the said proprictary or
confidential information of the other party in any manner whatsoever without secking the prior

written consent of the other party,

8.2 Either party shall also be entitled to terminate this MoU in the event of;

(i) Breach by the other party of the terms and conditions of this MoU and its failure to remedy such
breach within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of a written notice in this regard from the
non-breaching purty.

(1) The filing by or against the other party in any court of competent jurisdiction of @ petition in
bankruptcy or insolvency or for a scheme of rearrangement with creditors, for appointment of a
receiver or trustee or making assignment for the benefit of creditors and such petition is not

discharged within 60 days of its filing,

CLAUSE 9
AMENDMENT OF Mol

0.1 This MoU may be amended or supplemented only by written document that make specific
reference to this MoU and which is signed by both parry.
CLAUSE 10

WARRANTY

10.1 Each party warrants to other party that to the best of its knowledge that all materials, data,

information, and other assistance provided by the party shall not inftinge any third party rights,


--- Page 10 ---
(tro ea | ey ee Pe

IN WITNESS THEREOF, each party has caused its duly authorized representative to execute this

Mol as of the date stated above.

AGREED,
s
For For
Department of Chemical Engineering NTFP, Center for Excellence

National Institute of Technology, Agartala

FSB he tef-* 274-1e-2022_ i wet

Authorized St enatol™ pe atl “i Authorized Sipmatory

NIT Agartala, PRAVIN L. AGRAWAL
Name: Prof. (Dr.) D. Bhattacharya Mais Bite TAR; NG Ea

Designation: Registrar (VC) Designation: Director

Name of Institution: NATIONAL Name of Institute: NTF P, Center for Excellence
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

 

Agartala — 799012,

 

Contact Details: Contact Details:

   

E-mails; registrar(@nita.ac.in E-mails: tripurancedigmail.com |
Web: https:nita.ac.infindex html Web: httpcnee. gov. in! :
Witness (Name & Address} Witness (Narne & Address)
nye
Signature with date |. Signature with date
Q a gteeie tagelec: Eels a 2919/22
Name: df) 371 renal! Chemical Eng. Name:
; MIT. Agartala. AMAN BARU PS BEATTACHA BRYA
C MUPD cM CE
vo LL
2, Signature with date 2. Sipmature with date
Name: oY. Pa bhede Meantedeoke Name: Rat Fe a. ee
Deptt. of Chemical Eng.

27 frol% 12

MIT, Agartala. "Pla a Mee
