
--- Page 1 ---
CMTI- NITA MoU Jan 2019

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
CENTRAL MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE (CMT)),
BANGALORE
AND
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA (NITA), TRIPURA

This Memorandum of Understanding (hereinafter referred to as the “MoU”)

entered on 29th day of January 2019 at Bangalore.
BETWEEN

Central Manufacturing Technology Institute (hereinafter referred to as
the “CMTI”) an autonomous R&D organization and registered as a society
under Mysore Societies Act and under the administrative control of the
Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Department of Industrial Policy &
Promotion, Government of India, having its headquarters at Tumkur Road,

Bangalore -560 022, Karnataka and represented by its Director,
AND

National Institute of Technology, AGARTALA, (hereinafter referred to as the
“NITA”) an Institution of National Importance under the NIT Act of Parliament,
No. 29 of 2007, Government of India, having its headquarters at Jirania,

Agartala, Tripura and represented by its Director,

However, the parties are hereinafter referred to individually as “Party” and

collectively as “Parties . ‘ty

And whereas CMTI is a premier R&D organization in the field of
manufacturing technology having various activities and Centers of

Excellence, amongst others, as under:

Support and services to the industry in Design & Development,

,

 


--- Page 2 ---
CMTI- NITA MoU Jan 2019

Precision Engineering, Metrology, CAD, Software For Manufacturing,

Training, etc.

e Nano Manufacturing Technology Centre (NMTC), dedicated to R&D,
Product & Process Development, Industrial consultancy, etc. in the field of
Nano Manufacturing Technology with extensive networking with

Academia, Industry and R&D Organizations.

e Academy of Excellence for Advanced Manufacturing Technology
(AEAMT), offering, independently and in collaboration with National and
International Academia, Industry and R&D Organizations, vocational
intensive programmes in the areas of Advanced Manufacturing, with a

view to develop ‘Industry Ready Engineers.

e Applied Mechatronics Integration Facility - dedicated to integration of
applied Mechatronics into industrial products, Parallel Kinematic
Mechanisms, Robotics and Automation and Applied R&D in these areas

with an Industry focus, and Didactics

e Digital Design Centre — with the objectives of Simulation, Virtual
Prototyping, Virtual Manufacturing, Product life Cycle Management, etc.,

Industrial consultancy and Didactics

And whereas NITA offers Bachelor, Master and Doctoral Level Education
Programmes in Engineering and undertakes Industrial consultancy,

Sponsored Research and Development and Training activities.

And whereas the Parties consider it expedient and in their mutual interest to
collaborate with each other as strategic partners for undertaking. collaborative
R&D activities in Advanced Manufacturing, Mechatronics, Machine Tools and
related thrust areas of technology for the benefit of the student fraternity and

Industries in particular and the Manufacturing Sector at large.

Through discussions and consultations between the Parties and subject to

bs the terms and conditions set forth in this MoU, the Parties record their
an

Page 2 of 11 For CMTI

 


--- Page 3 ---
CMTI- NITA MoU Jan 2019

1. INTENT

CMTI and NITA have entered in to this MoU to further their mutual
intentions to jointly work on R&D and Industrial projects in the areas of
Advanced Manufacturing Technologies, Mechatronics and Machine Tools
Design and Engineering, and joint guidance of the research students at PG/
PhD level.

Both the parties agree that they shall harness their complimentary
resources (the resource  persons/faculty members, the Under
Graduate/Post Graduate/Doctoral student fraternity of NITA and the
Scientists of CMTI would collaborate and leverage the facilities available at
CMTI and NITA) and expertise to work together to pursue co-operative
research activities for the benefit of the manufacturing and machine tool

sector at large.

Both the parties, in line with the recitals, will agree upon detailed plan and

conditions of co-operative activities.
2. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE:
The primary objectives of this MoU are:

a) To carry out collaborative Research and Development activities in
the field of Advanced Manufacturing Technology and Machine Tool

Engineering.

oO
—

To design and deliver special technology programmes with high
practical and analytical content for the benefit of fresh Graduate
Engineers, Postgraduate aspirants, Diploma holders, Practicing
Engineers, Faculty members from Academith etc with the objective

of developing Industry Ready Engineers

c) Training of NITA faculty at CMTI in Advanced Manufacturing Areas

—

d) Enabling CMTI Scientists to pursue doctoral studies at NITA through
Research at CMTI

   

ay be amended with mutual agreement in writing based on emerging

Page 3 of 11 For CMTI

 


--- Page 4 ---
CMTI- NITA MoU Jan 2019

needs.

Initially it is proposed to take up the following broad areas of activities:

e Pursue collaborative R&D in Mechatronics, advanced manufacturing and

machine tools — with industrial focus.

e Write and Submit Joint R&D Proposal of Industry relevance to the Govt.

funding agencies and to pursue the approved R&D Projects.

e Strengthen the existing M Tech Programme in Manufacturing Technology,
Advanced Manufacturing Process (offered by CMTI), Machine Design, with
a wide vocational content (to bring out “Job Ready Engineers”) having the
first two semesters of course work at NITA and one year of industry

relevant project work at CMTI.
© Training of NITA Faculty at CMTI and vice versa.
° Joint guidance of research students at post graduate and PhD level.

e Establish a CMTI- NITA Centre for research, education, consultancy and

training in Manufacturing and other related areas at NITA Campus.

e Joint Conferences, Seminars, Workshops, Symposia in Advanced

Manufacturing, Precision Engineering and other related areas.

The following facilities available with the parties would be made available for

realizing the objectives of this MoU:
The facilities/ resources at the following centers of CMT!:
a) Nano Manufacturing Technology Center. (NMTC)

b) Academy of Excellence for Advanced Manufacturing Technology,
(AEAMT)

c) Digital Design Center, (DDC)
d) Advanced Mechatronics Integration Facility, (AMIF)

ad e) Precision Engineering

fo

Page 4 of 11 For CMTE

 


--- Page 5 ---
CMTI- NITA MoU Jan 2019

g) CAD/CAM/CAE

h) CNC manufacturing

i) Micro manufacturing

j) Assembly, Testing and evaluation and

k) Advanced Machine Tool Testing Facility (AMTTF)—a P-P-P with
IMTMA

AND
The existing facilities at NITA

a) | C Engine Lab

b) Advance Manufacturing Lab

c) Tribology and Bio-Tribology Lab

d) Advance Heat Transfer Lab

e) IR Spectroscopic characterization of non-corrosive solids and liquids
f) Nano-electronics Laboratory

g) Condition Monitoring Lab

h) Metallography lab

i) Metal-forming lab

j) CNC lab

RESPONSIBILITIES OF CMTI & NITA

e) To identify specific contextual research themes/projects in consultation

with industry, as appropriate,

f) Form Research teams consisting of CMT! stientists and NITA faculty,

on a project-to-project basis.

g) Identify and establish a cost model for sourcing necessary materials,
facilities/ equipment, consumables, etc. The facilities/resource persons
can be sourced either from sponsor, CMTI or NITA, or others on a

project-to-project basis.

 

Page 5 of 11 For CMT!

 


--- Page 6 ---
CMTI- NITA MoU Jan 2019

4. CONFIDENTIALITY:

(a) Both NITA and CMTI acknowledge that certain Confidential
information may be disclosed by one party to the other (the Party that
owns and/or discloses the Confidential Information is hereinafter referred
to as the “disclosing party” and the Party receiving or accessing such
Confidential Information is referred to as “receiving party") during the
tenure of this MoU or performance of the respective obligations under the
resultant definitive agreements hereunder. Confidential Information
means all information identified as “Confidential”, including but not limited
to information concerning the trade secrets, intellectual property rights,
know-how, formulae, processes, inventions, data, network
configurations, system architecture, designs, flow charts, drawings,
proprietary information, data or materials related to business, services,
products, customers, employees, finances or operational information of
either party, and any other confidential or proprietary information the
disclosure of which might harm or destroy a competitive advantage of the

disclosing party.

The receiving party shall not, directly or indirectly, disclose to any third
party other than its employees, affiliated companies, and authorized
agents any information concerning the disclosing party's business
methods, products, customers or finances, or any other Confidential
Information which is disclosed to it by the disclosing party, without the
prior written permission of the disclosing party, unless such disclosure Is
specifically required in the course of the performance by the receiving
party of its obligations hereunder or under the resultant definitive
agreements. The obligations of receiving party under this Section shall
not extend to any information which: (i) is or becomes a matter of public
knowledge, not as a result of any action of the receiving party; (ii) Is
lawfully in the possession of the receiving party prior to a disclosure

| ) hereunder; (iii) is received from a third party who lawfully acquired such

 

rmation without restriction, and without a breach hereof, by the
j SN

r
ls
oi
| &
ba
!

Ls
a

  
    

    

Page 6 of 11 For CMTI


--- Page 7 ---
CMTI- NITA MoU Jan 2019

receiving party; (iv) is disclosed by the receiving party with the disclosing
party’s prior written approval (v) the information is independently
developed by the receiving party, without use of the disclosing party's
Confidential Information;(vi) is disclosed by the receiving party under

operation of law or regulation or legal process;

(b) The Parties acknowledge that this MoU contains confidential
‘nformation that shall be considered proprietary by both Parties, and
agree to limit distribution of or disclosure about the Confidential
Information hereunder and/or this MoU to those individuals within their
respective organizations with a legitimate need to know the contents of
this MoU. Neither party shall publicize or make any _ public
announcement concerning the terms or nature of the relationship or this

MoU without the prior written consent of the other party.

(c) NITA and CMTI both acknowledge that any breach by them of their
respective obligations under this Section may cause irreparable harm to
the other party for which its remedies at law may be inadequate and that
in the event of any such breach either party shall be entitled to seek
equitable relief (including without limitation injunctive relief and specific
performance) in addition to other remedies provided hereunder or

available at law.

(d) Upon termination or dissolution of this MoU, or upon earlier demand
thereof, each. party shall at the other partys option, either destroy
underwritten certification of such destruction or return to the other party
all properties containing the other partys confidential information and

copies thereof in its possession.

(e) The Confidentiality Obligations under this Section shall survive during

the term of this MoU and three (3) years thereafter.

dy?

Page 7 of 11 For CMTI

 


--- Page 8 ---
CMTI- NITA MoU Jan 2019

5. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS:
By entering into this MoU the Parties undertake:

1) To protect each other's intellectual property.

2) Not to use each other’s intellectual property without the prior express

written consent of the other.

3) Ensure the confidentiality of such intellectual property as provided in

Section on Confidentiality and

4) Not to use each other's intellectual property should this MoU be

dissolved or terminated at any time.

5) To render itself liable, in case of infringement, to all such damages,

penalties, actions as available to the other party under the law.

The Parties agree that neither of them shall gain by virtue of this MoU any
rights of ownership or any other interest, ‘ight or title of copyrights, patents,
trade secrets, trade marks, or any other intellectual property rights owned by
the other party, and nothing herein shall mean nor shall be construed to
mean that they are at any time assigned, licensed or otherwise alienated to
the other party, nor the other party shall be entitled to claim any right, title or
interest therein, at any time. All new inventions, innovations or ideas
developed in the course of providing services to a client shall belong to the
party who develops them during the project/assignment. If the Parties
undertake any joint development in the course of providing services to a
client or under this MoU, any such joint development will be governed by a

SS
separate agreement to be negotiated in good faith by the Parties.

6. GOVERNING LAW & ARBITRATION.

In the event of any dispute or difference arising out of or in connection with this
| MoU shall be settled by the Parties by mutual negotiations. Any unsettled dispute

nce shall be referred to the arbitration of three arbitrators, of which one

 

Page 8 of 11 For CMT

 


--- Page 9 ---
CMTI- NITA MoU Jan 2019

shall be appointed by CMTI and the other by NITA. The two arbitrators shall then
appoint a third arbitrator before entering upon the reference. The Arbitration
proceedings shall be regulated by the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation
Act 1996 and the venue of the arbitration shall be Bangalore, India. The language
of Arbitration shall be English. The arbitrators may from time to time with the
written consent of Parties enlarge the time for making and publishing the award,
which will be binding on the both Parties. The governing law for the purpose of this
agreement shall be India. All the courts in Bangalore shall have jurisdiction to try

the disputes under this agreement.

7. TERM OF MOU:

This MoU shall be effective from the date of execution hereof and shall remain in
force for a period of three years or until terminated by either party as above or
replaced by a definitive Strategic Alliance Agreement between the Parties
whichever occurs first. The Parties may mutually agree to extend the period of
this MoU.

8. TERMINATION OF MOU:

(a). Either party shall, upon written notice of sixty (60) days to the other, withdraw
from or terminate negotiations or terminate this MoU at any time without
cause, and no such withdrawal or termination, for whatever reason will be
deemed to be in bad faith, or otherwise give rise to any liability to either party
(other than any liability arising from such Party’s breach of Confidentiality
Obligations, Intellectual Property and liability to make payments to each other
for any payment then due and payable as specified in and any other breach
of the respective binding definitive contract between the Parties relating to
their mutual engagement in projects) . Provided that the projects already
accepted for implementation will be completed by each party performing the

Ls activities and discharging the obligations assigned to it pursuant to the

evant definitive agreement and the Parties agree that all such activities and

 

be governed by the relevant definitive agreement,

fy:

Page 9 of 11 For CMTI

 


--- Page 10 ---
CMTI- NITA MoU Jan 2019

notwithstanding the termination of the MoU. On the termination/expiry of this
MoU each party will return all property belonging to the other party and
hereby undertakes not to use the said proprietary or Confidential information
of the other party in any manner whatsoever without seeking the prior written

consent of the other party.

(b) Either party shall also be entitled to terminate this MoU for cause in the

event of:

(i) Breach by the other Party of the terms and conditions of this MoU and its
failure to remedy such breach within a period of 30 days from date of

receipt of a written notice in this regard from the non-breaching party.

(ii) The filing by or against the other party in any court of competent
jurisdiction of a petition in bankruptcy or insolvency, or for a scheme of
rearrangement (reorganization) with creditors, for the appointment of a
receiver or trustees: or the making of an assignment for the benefit of

creditors, and such petition is not discharged within 60 days of its filing.

9. AMENDMENT

This MoU may be amended or supplemenied only by written document that
makes specific reference to this MoU and which is signed by the party against

which enforcement of any such amendment or supplement is sougnt.

40. WARRANTY |

‘*
Each Party warrants to the other Party that to the best of its knowledge all
materials, data, information and other assistance provided by it shall not infringe

third party rights.

11. OUTCOMES / DELIVERABLES:

 

Lbs “* Development of capabilities and institutionalized platforms to work on the

tic requirements of machine tool industry & the Manufacturing Sector

—
CAVING . \
; .
‘ ( hy?

s

3

*( itr

2 \ Bangsion >). {J FOr CMT
z, f st]

‘2

: #

      

Page 10 of 11

    


--- Page 11 ---
CMTI- NITA MoU Jan 2019

“+ Technology up-gradation in key Technology areas

“+ Development of trained man power in the field of Advanced Manufacturing

and Mechatronics areas

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party has caused it’s duly authorized
representative to execute this MOU as of the date stated above.

Signed on behalf of Signed on behalf of
NITA, Agartala CMTI, Bangalore

 
 
 
  

Dr. H.K. Sharma Dr. Nagahanumaiah
| Dir r
mee Choe Sent
ttc - NAGAHAN
/ Po ; an | Fie yTeH/DIRECTOR
National Institute of Ti CENTRAL MANUFACTUR! a Y INSTITUTE
Agar TUMKUR ROAD A
Witne itness: ; eae
Dr P Chakraborti >
Chairman IR&AA atu. sat / V.A.P. SARMA

dsufie - $ was Pureremer — wgUTHET
SCIENTIST - E & HOD-AEAMT
acta Afaterent vieathist «cart
CENTRAL MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE
amar ds, dae - $60 922
TUMKUR ROAD, BENGALURU - 560 O22

Page 11 of 11 For CMTI

 
