
--- Page 1 ---
Memorandum of Understanding
between
National Institute of Technology Agartala
and
Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati

 

National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA), Tripura and Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati
(IITG), Assam signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in the field of Student Exchange and
Research Collaboration on 11.11.2017. Expanding the collaboration further, both the institutionshave
here by agreed to enter into this Memorandum of Understanding for the purpose of offering exchange
programme of final year study of BTech programmes at IIT Guwahati followed by direct admission into
PhD programmes at IIT Guwahati to the students selected among the 10% of pre-final year BTech
students of NIT Agartala as per details stated below.

scope:
The scope of collaboration on academic activities in this Memorandum of Understanding is of the
following categories:

For selected UG students of NIT Agartala,
e Summer Internship Programme at the Academic Departments and Academic Centres of IIT
Guwahati,
e Provision of pursuing final year of study of BTech programme at IIT Guwahati under exchange
programme,
e Provision of direct admission to PhD programme at IIT Guwahati.

NITA and IITG have agreed to facilitate the top 10% of the pre-final year students (in the 6" semester)
of NITA to seek direct admission to the PhD programmes of IITG, and enable the successful candidates
to pursue 7th and 8th semesters of their BTech programmes at IITG, according to the following terms
and conditions.

Terms and Conditions:
1. NIT Agartala invites applications from their Sixth Semester BTech students who are in the top
10% of academic performance and who are inclined towards research and intend to take direct
admission to PhD programmes of IIT Guwahati.

2. NIT Agartala shortlists the received applications and sends to IIT Guwahati in the month of
February/March for further processing.

3. In March/April, the Academic Departments/Centres of IIT Guwahati conducts selection process
and selects the students provisionally for direct admission to PhD programmes of IIT Guwahati
subject to their successful completion of BTech degrees with minimum CPI/CGPA of 8.0 in a
10-point scale at NIT Agartala. The number of students to be selected disciplinewise/
departmentwise will be decided by IIT Guwahati. |

4. The selected candidates will join IIT Guwahati in the mid of May and carry out their Summer
Internship research work under the appointed mentor (a faculty member of the Academic
Department/Centre of IITG) till the first week of July. The assessment and grading of summer
internship work will be done by the mentors and the marks/grades will be sent to NIT Agartala
through the Academic Affairs Section of IIT Guwahati.

' cle Cece
Oke ia Page 1 of 2


--- Page 2 ---
9. Based on the satisfactory performances in the summer internship programme, these students
will be allowed to do their 4 year of study of Blech programmes at IIT Guwahati according to
the curriculum of IIT Guwahati under the category of exchange students (Visiting Students). The
earned credits will be transferred to NIT Agartala and upon completion of final year, NIT
Agartala will award Blech degrees as per therules of NIT Agartala. These students are NOT
entitled for the award of Blech degrees from IIT Guwahati.

6. At the end of the 4" year, if these students/graduates have secured final CPI/CGPA of 8.0 or
above in a 10-point scale (as per grading system of NIT Agartala), then based on their letter of
requests for joining PhD programmesof IIT Guwahati in the Month of May/June, without
subjecting into further selection process, they will be directly offered admission into the PhD
programmes of IIT Guwahati.

7. If a student does not perform well in the courses of the 4" year of BTech programme at IIT
Guwahati, the student will be transferred back to NIT Agartala along with credits earned.

This MOU will come into force upon affixing of the signatures of the representatives of both
Institutions and will remain in effect for five years. This MOU may be renewed upon its expiry,
with the agreement of both partner institutions.

If either partner institution wishes to terminate the MOU at the end of five-year period, it must notify the
other institution not less than six months prior to the expiry of the MOU.

This MOU or its renewal and the actions taken under it may be reviewed at any time. Modifications may
be made by mutual agreement and any amendment or extension to the agreement may be formalized
by the exchange of letters between the two parties.

 

Signatures
For and on behalf of For and on behalf of
Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati National Institute of Technology Agartala
Coaukon ¢ causa: (cat (EAA CEO
Professor Gautam Biswas, FNA Professor Harish Kumar Sharma
Director Director
Date: | Date:
signature of Witness: ,
MPG oa IE
Te inadatcranss becicanaias Sar Like evonigiiabagueiaese iF NG
Dean of Academic Affairs, IITG Cheirren IR&AA, NIT Agartala.

2 Mitra. Narayan on flordy costes ates elicaammyadaciaiees

Dean of Alumni & External Relations, IITG Dy Chairman IR&AA, NIT Agartala.

Page 20f2

 
