
--- Page 1 ---
Memorandum of Understanding
Between

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,
AGARTALA

And

   

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, MADRAS

This Memorandum of Understanding (this “Memorandum’) entered on 6" April 2018 for
three years.

BETWEEN

National Institute of Technology, Agartala , represented by the Director, hereinafter referred
to as “NITA”:

AND

Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Sardar Patel Road, Opposite to C.L.R.1, Beside The
Adyar Cancer Institute, Adyar, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 600036, India, represented by the
Director hereinafter referred to as “IITM” is hereby extended for a further period of three
years with effect from 7™ April 2021.

Purpose: The Parties hereby establish a formal affiliation for the purpose of concerning for
PDF of faculty members of National Institute of Technology Agartala during vacaticn period
at ITM.

OUTLINE OF IITM - NITA F-PDF PROGRAMME

1. NITA will identify their faculty for the IITM-NITA F-PDF program. The program
period will be for 3 years.

2. The NITA F-PDF will identify an IITM faculty willing to be a mentor, through mutual
consultation. The role of the mentor will be to facilitate various aspects of research
and stay of the NITA faculty at IITM.

3. It is expected that an F-PDF will spend about 2.5 months per year at IITM.

4. The F-PDF will be free to identify and pursue a research problem of her/his choice.
She/he can discuss with various faculty members at IITM and can access library,
hospital and research facilities, by following the existing procedures in
place. These processes will be similar to those followed by the Institute-PDFs at
ITM.

A suitable contingency amount to the F-PDF wiii be sanctioned by NITA as per
prevailing rules. Se a

cn


--- Page 2 ---
   

 

TERM AND TERMINATION OF MoU

This Memorandum of Understanding shall in all respects be construed as a statement of
intent, is not binding on either party, and neither party shall be liable to the other form any
damages, expenses, fees or losses whatsoever. Upon full execution of definitive agreement
documents for any program contemplated by this Memorandum, such definitive agreement
documents shall control and this Memorandum of Understanding shall not be used to
interpret the provisions of such agreement. Further, this Memorandum shall not be
construed to impose any specific terms or conditions of any intended or anticipated
programs and activities between the Parties and specifically excludes the grant of any
benefit to, or the imposition of any obligation on, any Party.

This Memorandum shall become effective as of the Effective Date and shali continue for the
term of 3(three) years. Thereafter, it can be renewed for additional terms upon the written
consent of both Parties and upon such terms and conditions as agreed to by the Parties at
the time of renewal.

Either Party may terminate this Memorandum at any time upon giving at least ninety (90)
days prior written notice to the other Party. There shall be no penalty payment due upon the
early termination of-this Memorandum.

4. No waiver of a provision, breach or default shall apply to any other provision or
subsequent breach or default or be deemed continuous.

2. This Memorandum shall continue in full force and effect, exclusive of any provision
deemed to violate applicable law.

3. This Memorandum may be executed to counterparts, all of which together shail corisiitute
one agreement.

The Parties have executed this Memorandum by their respective duly authorized
representatives.

NY Agartrala fe Indian Institute of Technology Madras

Name: Dr. Prasun Chakraborty Name: Prof. Ashok Kumar Mishra
Title: Chairman IR&AA Title: Dean Academic Research
National Institute of Technology, indian Institute of Technology Madras
Agartala.

Date: O7 _/ pos) LOZ)
Date: ¢ / 6 RZ) ~— (Day) (Month) (Year)
(Day) (Month) (Year)

   
