
--- Page 1 ---
 

  

 

 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU)

 

il ee BETWEEN LEM =e Te =
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS & INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
AND

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
This Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) is executed on the 21* day in the year 20220n
virtual mode as arranged by NHIDCL HQ, New Delhi.
BY AND BETWEEN
National Highways Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited, a company
incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013, having its corporate office at 3" floor, PTI
Building, 4°" Parliament Street, Sansad Marg Area, New Delhi 110001 (hereinafter referred
to as "NHIDCL") represented by its Managing Director through Sh. Chanchal Kumar, the duly
authorised representative, which expression shall include its successors-in-interest,
permitted assigns and successors-in-interest) of the FIRST PART.
AND
National Institute of Technology Agartala, having its office at NIT Agartala Campus, Jirania,
West Tripura(hereinafter referred to as "NITA" represented by Prof. H.K. Sharma, Director
NIT Agartala, the duly authorised representative, which expression shall unless repugnant
to the context or meaning thereof mean and include its successors in-interest, permitted
assigns and representatives) of the SECOND PART.
NHIDCL and INITA shall hereinafter be individually referred to as a "Party" and collectively
referred to as the "Parties".

1, PREAMBLE:

a. National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation (NHIDCL) is a fully
owned company of the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways, Government of India. The
company promotes surveys, establishes, designs, builds, operates, maintains and upgrades
National Highways and Strategic Roads including interconnecting roads in parts of the
country which share international boundaries with neighbouring countries.
%

b. NITAis an Institute of national importance with a vision to be a centre of excellence
in education and research, producing global leaders in science, technology and
management; to be a hub of knowledge creation and technology development that
prioritizes the frontier areas of national and global importance to improve the life of every
citizen of the country.

Gs Both NHIDCL and NITA are leading premier national organisations in their respective
fields and are desirous of working together to work as a team to achieve national objectives,
undertaken with their best abilities and maximum mutual cooperation with intent of helping
each other.

NOW, THEREFORE:

2. OBJECTIVES OF THE MOU
a. The purpose of this MoU is to establish the basis of collaboration between both the
ies such that the NHIDCL and NITA can take up various activities of common interest

: New Dethi | |
\ WN
*

 

   


--- Page 2 ---
  

such as sharing knowledge on innovative ideas and technologies in the field of highway
engineering and others as per mutually agreed terms and conditions.

b. The MOU provides a formal basis for initiating interaction between NHIDCL and
NITA.
CG. Each activity will be governed by its specific terms and conditions as mentioned in

the respective proposals and agreed to by both parties, in writing.

3. CONFIDENTIALITY

a. Each party agrees to consider as confidential all information disclosed by the other
party in written or tangible form or, if orally disclosed confirmed in writing within thirty (30)
days of disclosure and identified as confidential by the disclosing party.

Bi: The obligations above shall not extend to any confidential information for which the
receiving party can demonstrate that this information:

e isin the public domain at the time of disclosure; or comes within the public domain
without fault of the receiving party;

» is already known or become known to the receiving party;

e isreceived from a third party;

e is independently developed by the receiving party; or

» is required to be disclosed by operation of law, regulation or court order.

4. NON-EXCLUSIVITY

The relationship of the Parties under this MOU shall be nonexclusive and both Parties,
including their affiliates, subsidiaries and divisions, are free to pursue other agreements or
collaborations of any kind.

5. TERM AND TERMINATION

This MOU, unless extended by mutual written agreement of the Parties, shall expire after
three (3) years from the effective date specified in the opening paragraph. This MOU may
be amended or terminated earlier by mutual written agreement of the Parties at any time.
Either Party shall have the right to unilaterally terminate this MOU upon thirty (30) days
prior written notice to the other Party. However, no such early termination of this MOU,
whether mutual or unilateral, shall affect the obligations of the participants under any
Collaboration Agreement, Confidentiality clause or any other agreement entered into
pursuant to this MOU, which obligations shall survive any such termination, for respective
periods as stated in any such Collaboration Agreement or in the case of the afore stated
clauses, for a period of two (2) years thereafter.

6. RELATIONSHIP

Nothing in this MOU shall be construed to make either Party a partner, an agent or legal
representative of the other for any purpose. This MOU is legally non-binding in nature upon
_ both parties.

7. ASSIGNMENT
It is understood by the Parties herein that neither party shall assign this MOU in whole or in
Q any other party, without the prior written consent of the other Party.

 


--- Page 3 ---
8. COMPLIANCES

Each Party agrees to perform its activities in compliance with all applicable statutes and
regulations that are in force at that time.

9. DISPUTE RESOLUTION

In case of any dispute, difference or controversy of whatever nature, however, arising under
or out of this Memorandum of Understanding between the parties, and so notified in
writing by either party to the other party (the "Dispute") shall in the first instance, be
attempted to resolve amicably by way of conciliation procedure between Director, NITA and
MD, NHIDCL.

lf the dispute is not resolved amicably by way of the conciliation procedure, the same shall
be decided by the Sole Arbitrator, to be appointed by the Director NIT Agartala. Such
arbitration shall be held in accordance with the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (as
amended from time to time). The venue of such Arbitration shall be at Delhi and the
language shall be English.

10. SIGNED IN DUPLICATE

This MOU is executed in duplicate with each copy being an official version of the Agreement
and having equal legal validity.

BY SIGNING BELOW, the Parties, acting by their duly authorized officers, have caused this
Memorandum of Understanding to be executed, effective as of the day and year first above
written.

On behalf of On behalf of

NATIONAL HIGHWAYS INFRASTRUCTURE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
& DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED AGARTALA

 

By: By:
ag
Name : Shri Chanchal Kumar (IAS) * Name : Prof H K Sharma
Designations; tranaging Dike ctOr™= Designation : Director, NIT Agartala
Date: CHANCHAL KUMAR, !A8 Date: (Prof. H.K. Sharma\/( HT. Ta. a. wat)
pal frresTes | | Managing Director Director/frdatH
Developmen! Corpocatn Li © gartalal Ut

WE eet
— ys Lene? feedht - 110001

STs |
Delhi-- 110 001
Witness: PT! Sullding, New 9
ear ate Technica) _ A
ey [sess ccnmiorgeset ayy
ve oration Limite ;
: oe ue aad Dr. Prasyn Chakraborti Ly
:

440 Chairman (iR & AA)

2) o Dalhi -
Qf. 2, N.I.T., Agartala
adars:
D-Ly pO

Winer NEW Deum

       
 

 
