
--- Page 1 ---
oo

Wwe

fe See Sys sys ee See eS
OS TS a

 

 

-afsan Set WEST BENGAL AT 069046
a
g
d
é
4
i MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
,
9 BETWEEN

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY ,AGARTALA

g AND

HCG EKO Cancer Centre, having its registered office at DG Blocki(New Town), Action

Area-l, New Town, West Bengal - 700156

 

a“
This Agreement is made on the\ day of ? > Month ws. Year between the National

institute of Technology,Agartala of the First Part.

f AND

HCG EKO Cancer Centre, having its registered office at DG BlockfNew Town). Action Area-
iF New Town, West Bengal - 700156 (herein after called HCG EKO Cancer Cenire), of the

«second part 1
KES EON,
; ite

 

  
 
 

   

‘

 


--- Page 2 ---
yes 6

 

© @ NOV 9024 iS, Ned TON
ss. ct are REE \ Kak >$N\4

Licur- " <7 andor
oe Got

| 2&3, K. 3: Koy Road, Kol-3 .

ene

 


--- Page 3 ---
WHEREAS, HCG EKO Cancer Centre, having its registered office at DG Block(New Town

Action Area-l, New Town, West Bengal - 700156, proposes to provide treatment facilities and
diagnostic facilities to beneficiaries of both on Central Government Health Scheme

 

WHEREAS HCG EKO Cancer Centre Offered to give the following Name of
treatmeni like Surgical Oncology, Medical Oncology, Radiation Oncology, NMD, ETC
to be Beneficiaries in the HCG EKO Cancer Centre:-

INVOLVIDIG™ Surgical Orcology, ese Oncolegy, Radiation Onéology, NMD, y
ETC/Details, AS PER ANNEXURE14 ATTACHED.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED between the Parties as followed:

1 Definitions & Interpretations

 

1.1 The following terms and expressions shall have the following meanings
for purpose of this agreement-

1.1.1 "Agreement" shall mean this Agreement and all schedules, supplements,
appendices, appendages and: modifications there of made in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement.

1.1.2 "Beneficiary" shall mean a person who is eligible for coverage of benefits and
holds a valid card.

rc oe
~

1.1.3 "Benefits" shall mean extent or degree of services the beneficiaries are entitled
to receive as per the rules on the subject.

1.1.4 "Card" shall mean the Employee identity Card / Dependent Card/Medical
identity card for beneficiaries as issued by the competent authority.

1.1.5 "Card Holder” shall mean a person having the Card.
1.1.6 "Coverage" shall mean the types of persons to be eligible as the beneficiaries
of the health services provided under the agreement, subjects to the ierms,

conditions and limitations.

1.1.7 "Diagnostic Centre" shall mean the HCG EKO Cancer Genire, Kolkata as per

 


--- Page 4 ---
1.1.8 "“De-recognition of hospital/diagnostic centre" shall mean debarring the
Hospital/Diagnostic centre on account of adopting unethical practices or fraudulent

means in providing medical treatment to or not following the good industry practices
of ihe health care for the beneficiaries after following certain procedure of inquiry.

1.1.9 "Emergency" shall mean by condition or symptom resulting from any cause,
arising suddenly and if not treated at the earliest opportunity would be detrimental to
the health of the patient or shall jeopardize the life or limb of the patient.

1.1.10 “Empanelment" shall “mean the private hospital/diagnostic centres
empanelled under CGHS Rules for treatment/ investigation for the particular pericd.

1.1.11 "Hospital"shall mean the HCG EKO Cancer Centre performing under this
Agreement providing medical investigation, ireatment and the healthcare of the
beneficiaries. e

1.1.12 "Imaging Centre" shall mean the (Name of the Imaging Centre) performing X-
ray, CT scan,USG etc.

4 rv
1.1.13 "Package rate" shall mean lump sum cost of impatient treatment/any care for
which a patient has been referred by competent authority to the hospital/diagnostic
cenire. This includes all charges pertaining to a particular treatment/procedure
including:-

(a) Registration charges

(b) Admission charges

(c) Accommodation charges (includes diet provided to patient)
(d) Operation charges

(e) Injection charges

(f) Dressing charges
(g) Doctor/ consultant visit charges
(h) ICUACCU charges

(i) Monitoring charges

(j) Transfusion charges

(k) Anesthesia charges

(1) Operation theatre charges

(m

) Procedural charges/ surgeon's fee
(n) Cost of surgical disposables and all sundries used during hospitalizations

o) Cost of medicines

(0)
(p) Routine and essential investigations
(q) Physiotherapy charges

 


--- Page 5 ---
(r) Pre-anesthetic check up
(s) Any other charges levied during stay under package days duration.
(The above list is an illustrative one only)

The package rate however does not include expenses on telephone, tonic, cosmetics/
toileiries/consumables etc, which are not part of the treatment regimen, Cost of these
additional items, if provided with the prior consent of the patient, has to be settled with the
patient, for which not reimbursement shall be admissible.
In order to remove the scope of any ambiguity on the point of package rates, it is reiterated
that the rate quoted for a particular procedure must be inclusive of all sub-procedures and all
related procedures to complete the treatment procedure. The patient shall not be asked to
bear the cost of any such procedure/ item.

Implants shall be allowed as per CGHS ceiling rate or as per actual, whichever may be less
or as per actual, if there is not CGHS rate.

1.1.14 "Rate" shall mean charges for approved procedures/ services ag,may be notified by
CGHS (Kolkata Rate)from time to time.

1.1.15 "Rack Rates” shall mean the charges for treatment, procedures or implants
investigations, not enlisted in latest CGHS rate list.

2. Medical Facility

The hospital/diagnostic centre will provide cashiess medical facilities to all beneficiaries of
NIT Agartala ( Only for regular employees and their dependent family members).
Beneficiaries who are in regular service will not be required to deposit any advance at the
time of the admission and any payment at the time of discharge.

All the contractual employees (excluding their family members) can have medical
facilities(OPD,IPD, Diagnostic facilities etc) on payment basis and billing will be based
on CGHS (Kolkata) rate.

3. Procedure to be Followed for availing Services on Cashless basis. The following
procedure is to be followed by an employee for availing of the cashless medical facility under
the terms of this Agreement: -

 

Medical Oncology,Surgical Oncology,Radiation Oncology,Haematology,Bone Marrow
Transplant,Nuclear Medicine & all investigations & procedures to diagonise oncology.

4, Prescription Authorities

  

Ue

 

 


--- Page 6 ---
&

(a) In-Patients. All expenses on investigations, medicines etc. would be borne up-
front by the hospital and would be reimbursed subsequently on preferring of Bill, in
terms of the CGHS empanelment.

>

“a

(b) Out Patients. Expenses on consultation and investigations would be bome up-
front by the hospital. Medicines would be drawn by the individual through sources.

5. Approved Rates to be Charged

The hospital/diagnostic centre agrees that it shall bill as per the rates for a particular
procedure/ package deal as prescribed by CGHS Kolkata Rate at the time of
discharge.Rates are not available in CGHS Kolkata rate will be as per present
hospital tariff.

6. Duration

This Agreement shall remain in force for a period of two years or till it is modified or
revoked, whichever is earliersThe Agreemeat may be extendeg, for another year
subject to fulfillment of all the terms and conditions of this Agreement and with
mutual consent.

Ts Submission of Bills to NIT Agartala

On completion of ihe treatment’ procedure (s) of ithe beneficiary, the
hospital/diagnostic centre shall submit credit bill (Hard copy) original with 01 set
Xerox copy along with other documents to Registered/Speed Post .

8. Payment within 45 Days

NIT,Agartala will process the data and bill of all beneficiaries attending the
hospital/diagnostic centre. The same will be forwarded to and payment directly to
the hospital/diagnostic centre in time bound manner within a periad of 45 days from
the date of receipt of bills in physical format by NITA.

9. Termination for Default

NITA may without prejudice to any other remedy for breach of Agreement, by written
notice of default sent to the hospital/diagnostic centre terminate ‘the Agreement in
whole or part.

The hospital/diagnostic centre shall honor all terms and conditions as laid down in
the Agreement with CGHS for providing treatment to all entitled individuals.

 


--- Page 7 ---
Signed by

[Ne tp

 

 

NIT Agartala
I>-fo4 a ;
1 Melb Registra 3
Mo ls be NIT, Agartal®: seprenemer (sama areaer) u}e

Dean (FW)
- Vo Ho Yo, TRA! NIT, Agartala.
2 Pais rama
, Dept. of MESS
NIT Agartala, Jiranta, West 'iguca, Tripura,
India, Pin: 799046

Signed by

Dr.Amarjeet Singh ‘DR. AMARJEET SINGH
Chief Operating Officer
HCG EKO CANCER CENTRE.

Chief Operationg Officer Kolkata-700156

HCG EKO CANCER CENTRE

(Witnesses)

~ Yate
1, i

2 pbodip © Joab

 
