
--- Page 1 ---
 

for PhD at IITD.

Ly

   

Page 1 of 4


--- Page 2 ---
 

\ ‘

1. Under this scheme, NITA studénts who have a CGPA of 8.00 at the end of their

sixth semester (three years), will be eligible to apply for a project in summer and
complete their fourth year (7" and 8" semesters, or either), at IITD, and then be
considered for an early admission into the PhD program at IITD. Dual Degree
students from NITA would be eligible to apply after their 8" semester, for a

project in summer, or complete their fifth year (9 and 10" semesters, or either),

2. There will be two points at which the student can apply, either before the month

of May each year (just after the completion of their 6" semester), and before the

month of December each year (just after the completion of their 7 semester).

Correspondingly, this would be at the end of 8" and 9" semester, respectively, for

students in the Dual Degree program.

to the end of November), while students applying before December would be

expected to spend their 8" (or 10") semester in IITD (which usually spans from

late December to early May).
4. All applications will be received through a portal set up for this purpose. They

will submit their transcript, and other academic records and achievements, and

could be after the completion of the 6" or 7 semester of B. Tech. (or after 8"

and 9" semester, respectively, for students in the Dual Degree program). This

provisional offer will clearly state that the final offer of admission will follow
provided they demonstrate sufficient merit in coursework and/or research during
their stay in IITD. The final confirmation of this offer will be done through a

and project conducted at IITD.

Lt Rv

 

Page 2 of 4


--- Page 3 ---
 

5. Students will actually join the PhD program only after completion of all
graduation requirements at NITA, which would be typically in the month of July.
All shortlisting criteria and admission criteria must be satisfied by the student at
the time of joining as well. Requirement of GATE is waived off, since the student
will enter IIT with a minimum CGPA of 8.00. / -

6. During the stay in IITD, the student will have the status of Visiting Student with a
temporary/ provisional enrollment number, and will enjoy all the privileges of a
full time student in ITTD.

7. During the stay in ITTD, the student may take courses to satisfy the credit
requirements for their B. Tech. registration (or Dual Degree) in their parent
institution (NITA). IITD will certify the completion of the courses and the grades
obtained in them, and it will be up to NITA to provide credit waiver or transfer
the credits as per their academic requirements. The Minor (single semester) or
Major (two semester) project can be considered as B.Tech. or M.Tech. projects
(or parts thereof), by NITA (as per their own policy on projects).

8. In all academic/project work undertaken here in IITD, transcript will be provided
with relevant credits, however, consideration of these credits will be up to NITA.
Students may also undertake additional credits as Pre-Ph.D. courses for their PhD
program, during their stay (in a regular semester) at ITD.

9. During their stay in IITD as a Visiting Student, ITTD will not be charging any
academic fees to the student, except fixed charges as applicable, since these
students will be paying their regular academic fees in their parent institution.
Being B.Tech./ Dual Degree students, IITD will be providing either on-campus or
off-campus hostel accommodation during the one-year period. Hostel fees will be
charged at regular rates.

10. Even after getting the confirmed offer of admission, the student (with prior
permission of NITA, and on application to IITD) may continue to stay for one
more semester doing coursework and/or project at IITD.

11. Students coming under this program will not be entitled for participation in the
Training &Placement process in IITD, until they register as full-time PhD

students. This will be clearly stated in their provisional offer of admission.

hh AV

 

Page 3 of 4


--- Page 4 ---
 

12. As part of this program, students can have the following academic windows at
ITD: 7
(1) Summer (after 6" semester) plus e semester (summer after g"" semester
plus 9" semester, for Dual Degree):
(i) Only 7 semester (9 semester for Dual Degree);
(11) Only 8” semester (1 0" semester for Dual Degree);
(iv) Summer (after 6" semester) plus 7” and 8" semesters (summer after gi

semester plus 9" and 10" semesters, for Dual Degree);

(v) 7 and 8" semesters (9 and 10" semesters, for Dual Degree).

Commencement, renewal, termination and amendment

This MoU will come into force upon affixing of the signatures of the representatives
of the partner institutions and will remain in effect for five years. This MoU may be
renewed upon its expiry, with the agreement of both the partner institutions. If either
partner institution wishes to terminate the MoU at the end of five years, it must
notify the other institution not less than six months prior to the expiry of the MoU.

This MoU or its renewal and the actions taken under it may be reviewed at any time.
Modifications may be made by mutual agreement and any amendment or extension

to the agreement may be formalized by the exchange of letters between the two

parties.

Signed by ~~ — Signed by

 

InP Bet)

Prof. V. Ramgopal Rao Prof. H. K. Sharma

Director Director

Indian Institute of Technology Delhi National Institute of Technology Agartala
Date: 27" February 2020 Date: 27" February 2020

Page 4 of 4
