
--- Page 1 ---
   

Memorandum of Understanding

between
Dr. B.R. Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar, Punjab
and

National Institute of Technology, Agartala, Tripura State.

Contract Partners :

Dr. B.R. Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar (NITJ), Punjab and
National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA), Tripura State.

Principal Agreement:

Dr. B.R. Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar (NITJ), Punjab and
National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA), agree to enter into a bilateral
agreement for a tie-up to facilitate academic and technical collaboration and therefore,
the two Institutes, NITJ and NITA, are signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
on 17.01.2019 as per the articles set below.

Article-1.0: THE SCOPE OF MOU:

The scope of MOU covers collaborative R & D, academic interaction leading to reforms
in curriculum, student exchange associated with transfer of credits, faculty exchange,
sharing of resources, accessibility to sophisticated instruments, sharing of knowledge of

best practices.

Article-2.0 )

The activities under the agreement will be as described below for collaboration and
which form the schedule to this MOU. This schedule may be amended by mutual
agreement.

Guc@Z eZee!

Page 1lof5


--- Page 2 ---
Article-2.1

NITJ and NITA will submit collaborative research projects to various funding agencies
like DST, CSIR, etc. in the topics and areas of mutual interest. The sharing of fund and
manpower will be case specific and depending on the detailing of the project
concerned.

Article - 2.2

The instrumentation facilities, Laboratory and Library facilities of one of the institutes
will be made available for the research scholars, UG/PG students doing their projects,
faculty members working in the other institute. Wherever charges are to be paid,
concessional charges as decided by the facility-providing institute will be paid from the
funds of the joint-research projects or research projects/other funds of the other
institute.

Article-2.3

The faculty members of each of the institutes may teach part of the courses or give
expert lectures at the other institute through video-conferencing mode using NKN or
possible media without prejudice to their work and responsibilities at their home
institute. The faculty members can also be sent to teach and research for acquiring the
exposure and training in different conditions. Administration can decide to send any
one or more faculty members for a specific period of time.

Article — 2.4

The UG/PG students of each of the institutes can take courses or do project
works/dissertation works in the other institute (host institute). The credits earned by
the students in the host institute will be transferred to the home institute and will be
considered for the purpose of grading by mapping to the courses and credits as per the
curriculum of the home/ parent institute. Project guidance and its continuous
evaluation will be done by the faculty member (external guide) at the host institute.
One faculty member (internal guide) at the home institute will also be assigned to each
of such projects. Dissertation/project report will be submitted to the home institute
through the internal guide for final evaluation. Grading of the projects/dissertations
will be done, based on continuous and final evaluation as per the grading procedure of
the home institute.

Page 2of 5

1AARAEAESL


--- Page 3 ---
Article — 2.5

NITJ and NITA will organize National/ International Conferences/ Seminars/ Symposia/
workshops jointly in conformity to the rules and regulation of both the institutes.

Article — 3.1

In addition, it is envisaged that each activity, that the parties wish to pursue in
accordance with the purpose of this MOU will be governed by terms and conditions to
be separately negotiated and mutually agreed upon by the aise through the signing
of one or more subsidiary agreements.

Article — 3.2

Any clause or article of the MOU may be modified or amended by mutual agreement of
NITJ and NITA.

Article-4.1

In case of joint research projects, the research findings, patents and all other
intellectual property rights shall exclusively be owned by NITJ and NITA.

Article-4.2

The expenditure connected with securing and maintaining the Intellectual Property
Rights shall be shared between the two institutes (NITJ and NITA) proportionally, based
on their respective intellectual, material and financial contributions and decided on a
case-to-case basis.

Article — 5.1

This MOU shall be effective for an initial period of five years from the date of signing.
Thereafter, this MOU may be extended for further periods of five years or for any other
period of time as deemed appropriate by both the parties, subject to their mutual
consent of any such extension to be made in writing. |

Article —5.2

Either party may terminate this MOU by giving a written notice of termination of at least
three months in advance.

Page 30f5

heeaceqeed

 


--- Page 4 ---
Article —5.3

in the event of termination of MOU, for whatever reasons, both parties agree to fulfil
their respective commitments in respect of the students, research scholars, faculty
‘nvolved in the activities which are in vogue during such termination time and MOU will
be considered to be in force till completion of such activities.

Article — 6.0

Arbitration

In case of any dispute arising out of this agreement, the heads of the institutes shall
endeavour to resolve such controversy or dispute by mutual discussions and in good
faith.

This MoU between NITJ , and the NITA, Tripura is now established by the signatures
of the Directors of the two institutes.

For NIT Jalandhar For NIT Agartala

 
 
  
 

   

(Prof. Lalit Kumar Awasthi) (Prof. H. K. Sharma)
Director Director
NIT Jalandhar, Punjab NIT Agartala, Tripura State
Witnesses:

et ee

“Dre :

.Prasun Chakraborti
rtala Chairman (IR & AA)

      

oc

1h} \9

NIT Jalandhar NIT Aga
N.1.T., Agartala.
, WATE , us

NIT Jalandhar NIT Agartala

Page 4o0f5
