
--- Page 1 ---
 

ae: TAN: Oy

 

Memorandum of Understanding

for Standardization & Conformity Assessment Collaboration Between

Bureau of Indian standards
and

(National Institute of Technology Agartala)

This Memorandum of Understanding (‘MoU’) is made on 4" Day of August 2023
between the Bureau of Indian Standards, the National Standards Body of India
established under the Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 2016 for the harmonious
development of the activities of standardization, conformity assessment and quality
assurance of goods, articles, processes, systems and services and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto, having its Headquarters at ‘Manak Bhavan’, 9
Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi-110002, hereinafter referred to as the Bureau, or
the FIRST PARTY,
and

The (National Institute of Technology Agartala), an institute having expertise in the
area of scientific and technological education and research, and the application of
scientific knowledge and technology to human advancement and social development,
established under the Institute of Technology Act, 1961, / The National Institutes of
Technology, Science Education andResearch Act, 2007/The University Grants
Commission Act, 1956 (as applicable),enacted by the Parliament of Republic of India,
having its office at (Address of Institute) hereinafter referred to as NIT Agartala, or the
SECOND PARTY.

Both the Bureau and NIT Agartala hereinafter refer to individually as the ‘Party’ and
collectively as ‘Parties’.

 


--- Page 2 ---
af General

1.1The Burea i i
U, with this Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with NIT Agartala

ae to develop collaborative activities in the field of Standardization and Conformity
ssessment o
n the basis of equality and reciprocity and in accordance with terms and

conditions in thi
3 Set forth in this memorandum of understanding (MoU). The collaboration will
be established within the principles set out in the following sections.

1.2 National Instititue of Technology Agartala shall nominate a Nodal Officer,
who may be called Education Outreach Coordinator.

2: Objectives

2.1Both the Parties agree to develop the following collaborative activities in the areas of

Standardization and Conformity Assessment on the basis of equality and reciprocity.
2.2NIT Agartala and the Bureau agree to collaborate in the following areas:

a) participate in Standardization activity through Technical Committees of the
Bureau at National & International level.

b) undertake R&D Projects related to standardization and conformity assessment,

c) develop infrastructure support for R&D Projects of relevance to standardization.
the Bureau will provide infrastructure support for R&D Projects of relevance to
Standardization. The terms and conditions for infrastructure support and finance
to be jointly worked out based on the R&D Projects.

d) provide IT based technological solutions regarding various activities of the
Bureau, including Conformity Assessment processes, as and when required. The
detailed guidelines for such projects would be worked out separately as may be
mutually agreed to.

e) jointly organize seminars, conferences, workshops symposia or lectures on
topics of Standardization and Conformity Assessment and to invite each other's

faculty to participate therein.


--- Page 3 ---
f) exchange publications and other literature of common interest related to
Standardization and Conformity Assessment.

io}
—

exchange information on research and educational programmes and other

programmes relevant to Standardization and Conformity Assessment.

h) NIT Agartala to consider introduction of topics on standardization in academics
for which the Bureau would provide all inputs required to create teaching
modules on the concept of Standardization and Conformity Assessment.

i) jointly organize training and short-term education programmes on
Standardization and Conformity Assessment.

j) explore the possibility for setting up a Centre of Excellence in the field of
Standardization, Testing & Conformity Assessment atNIT Agartala.

k) explore the possibility of hiring of NIT Agartala faculty as consultants on
secondment basis.

\) explore the possibility of using laboratory facilities available at NIT Agartala for

catering to'the needs of various Conformity Assessment Schemes of the Bureau.

m) any other mutually agreed to area of collaboration.

2.3Terms and conditions for various collaboration will be worked out under mutual

agreement.
3. Intellectual Property Rights:

3.10wnership of any intellectual property, including but not limited to confidential
information, know-how, patents, copyrights, design rights, rights relating to computer
software, and any other industrial or intellectual property rights, developed solely by NIT

Agartala shall be vested with that Parties.

3.2Ownership of any intellectual property, including but not limited to confidential
information, know-how, patents, copyrights, design rights, rights relating to computer
software, and any other industrial or intellectual property rights, developed solely by the
Bureau shall be vested with that Parties.


--- Page 4 ---
4. Effective Date, Duration, Termination of the MoU:

4.1This MoU shall be effective from the Effective Date and shall remain in force for a
period of five (5) years therefrom. The parties may extend the term as mutually agreed
to, in writing. This MoU may be terminated by either Party by giving a written notice of
sixty (60) days to the other Party hereto.

= Confidentiality

5.1. The Receiving Party shall ensure confidentiality of documents and information
received and marked as confidential of the Disclosing Party, within the framework of this
MoU. The documentation and information can be shared with a third party only with the

written consent of the Disclosing Party.

5.2 The obligation of non-disclosure of such documentation and information shall

survive till the validity of this MoU.
6. Warranty

6.1Any and all deliverables, information, proposed publication, materials, reports,
Services, intellectual property, other property or rights (“Results”) and Confidential
Information, granted or provided by NIT Agartala pursuant to this MoU are on an as-is-
where-is basis. NIT Agartala does not make any warranties of any kind, either express
or implied, as to any matter including, but not limited to, warranty of fitness for particular
purpose, or merchantability, exclusivity or results obtained from use. NIT Agartala or its
personnel shall not be liable for any loss or damage including third party damage that
may arise out of usage of the Results or/and Confidential Information, by the Bureau
under this MoU.

qT. Resolution of Disputes

The Bureau and NIT Agartala will jointly resolve the dispute in a spirit of independence
and shared responsibility. In case, there be a dispute relating to any aspect of the
cooperation, NIT Agartala and the Bureau will jointly resolve thedispute in a spirit of

independence, mutual respect, and shared responsibility.


--- Page 5 ---
   
   
    

The interpretation and enforceability of this MoU shall be determined according to laws

of India.

8. Amendment

This Memorandum of Understanding may be amended or supplemented at any time by
written agreement agreed between the Parties.

9.The MoU becomes effective by the signature of the Parties.

Signed

Aa se Queer

 

Prof. S.K. a NIT ae

Director

National Institute of Technology ,Agartala

Bi. UA GA UWar
Prof. S, K. Patra
eee! frésrp / Director
Nationa! Institute of Technology
Aguriala.

Date:

Witness:

Dr. Manish Pal
Professor & Chairman, AA&IR

Agartala.
Date: nin?

 

Sh.Dibyendu Chakraborti
Scientist F DDGE

Bureau of Indian Standards

ware | DIBYENDU CHAKRABARTI

ae latalpa General (Baste)

Seal WR} BUREAU OF culaens
eer agree comet wate Sat 7/7, 7/8,

TORTT + 700091
Fs NSIC Building (oh Floor) at Plot No. 7/7, 7/8,
Block - CP, - V, Salt Lake, Kolkata - 700091

Date:
Witness: bag ylafrors
kh MANODIP BAG
area SRE Sch 0 dl Dect
Date: — wie mand oF a Sanne
