
--- Page 1 ---
 

Memorandum of Understanding

Academic and Research Collaboration
between
National Institute of Technology Agartala, India
and
Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai, India

National Institute of Technology Agartala and Indian Institute of Technology Madras
have agreed to the following protocols, governing their collaboration on academic and
research related activities:

»

Scope

The scope of collaboration on academic and research activities in this Memorandum of
Understanding includes the following categories:

Academic and Research collaboration in the areas of mutual interest.

Exchange of academic information, scholarly information, materials, and publications.
Exchange of students and faculty.

Sponsorship of cooperative seminars, workshops, and other academic meetings.

Student Exchange

Pursuant to the agreement for academic exchange, National Institute of Technology Agartala
and Indian Institute of Technology Madras will exchange students according to the terms laid
out in Annexure 1. It is desired by both parties that there will be a significant flow of students
in both directions.

Research Collaboration

Faculty from both institutions will collaborate in the supervision of exchange students and in
joint research in disciplines of mutual interest, All such joint research activities will be
governed by the terms laid out in Annexure 2,

Admission of the top 10% of the students of National Institute of Technology Agartala
to direct PhD / MS by research program at IJT Madras (subjected to availability of
seats at IITM)

Nationa! Institute of Technology Agartala and IIT Madras agree to facilitate the top 10% of
students (subjected to availability of seats at IITM), at the end of 6" semester of National
Institute of Technology Agartala to seek admission to the direct PhD / MS by research
program of IIT Madras, and enable successful candidates to pursue the 7" and 8" semesters
of their BTech program at IIT Madras, according to the terms laid out in Annexure 3 and
Annexure 4.


--- Page 2 ---
Commencement, renewal, termination, and amendment

This MOU will come into force upon affixing of the signatures of the representatives of the ;
partner institutions and will remain in effect for five years. This MOU may be renewed upon
its expiry, with the agreement of both partner institutions.

lf either partner institution wishes to terminate the MOU at the end of the five years period, it
must notify the other institution not less than six months prior to the expiry of the MOU,

Any dispute shall be resolved amicably through mutual discussions between the authorized
representatives of the respective Parties. .

This MOU or its renewal and the actions taken under it may be reviewed at any time.
Modifications may be made by mutual agreement and any amendment or extension to the
agreement may be formalized by the exchange of letters between the two parties.

Signed: Signed: ;
SIGNATURE: oe SIGNATURE:
Prof, Sarat Kumar Patra Prof. V. Kamakoti
Director ' Director
National Institute of Indian Institute of Technology
Technology Agartala, India Madras
Chennai, Tamil Nadu 600036,
India
DATE: DATE: 12/02/2025


--- Page 3 ---
Annexure 1

. The institution where the student is admitted to earn a degree is the home institution and
the institution to which the student is sent as an exchange student is the host institution.

Students under the student exchange program will be classified as special exchange
students. Special exchange students will be permitted to take courses on credit/audit, as
well as participate in research activities/project work.

In any case, the consent of the teacher/project supervisors/research supervisors at the
host institution is required. Such consent will take into account among other things
whether the student has successfully completed the pre-requisites for the course/project.

The Host Institution of students enrolled in this exchange program shall not levy tuition
fees. Home Institution may continue to levy fees as applicable.

5. Course credits and grades earned will be determined by the home institution based on
the grade report from the host institution.

6. The number of students and time duration will be worked out on a case-by-case basis.
7. Participants may not spend more than one year normally in the exchange program,

8. Participants, when they are in the host institution, will be subject to the rules and
regulations of the host institution.

Selection and nomination

The selection and nomination of students is open throughout the academic year. The
student nomination should be accompanied by:

* Curriculum vitae, with an official grade card/mark sheet.
e Statement of aptitude from a member of the student's school/faculty.

« A specific outline of the program of study at the host institution and a statement of
objectives of the student.

When a nomination is forwarded by the home institution, it is presumed that the sending
institution considers the student suitable for the proposed program and consents to send the
student if selected by the host institution.
The host institution will evaluate the nomination and determine their suitability for selection
under the Student Exchange Program.

Where the exchange student is pursuing a research or implementation project as part of the
B.Tech, M.Tech, M.A., MBA, M.S., M.Sc., or PhD (or equivalent) degree program, the host
institution will provide a suitable faculty member to jointly mentor (along with the supervisor
in the home institution) the exchange student in formulating the research project or jointly
supervising the exchange student in the event that a research project has already been
identified.

The host institution will inform the home institution of any academic or other problems that
may arise during the period of the student's residence in the host institution. The host
institution will take appropriate action under its established policy and procedures. in
consultation with the home institution to deal with such problems. '

 


--- Page 4 ---
Annexure 2

1. Proposals for collaborative research work under this Pere be submitted
with the prior approval of the Head of each institution, or their nominee.

: ' i tative in charge of the

2. Each institution will nominate one of its members as its represen !
cooperative program. Individual programs of work under this Memorandum will be
jointly planned and conducted by the nominees of both parties.

3. Progress of work of any individual Program will be reviewed and approved by
designated authorities of both parties,

The final approval of any project will depend on the availability of guaranteed support
funds.

Madras will be held responsible for any liability to the other Party, and neither party
@ to any property
due to activities to which this agreement relates,

Every collaboration will have its own agreeme

nt/contract that addresses issues such as |PR,
funding pattern, disclosure of information, ete,

ttktees


--- Page 5 ---
Annexure 3

fe _ top 10% of BTech students of National Institute of Technology Agartala
© Direct PhD program at IITM (subjected to availability at ITM)

Extract of Senate Norms for top 10%
Technology Agartala seeking admissio

 

of BTech students of National Institute of
n to direct PhD program at IITM.

 

a) Top 10% of the B. Tech students from other Institutions (which agree to
participate in the program) who are in their 3rd year, with a minimum CGPA of

8.0 and without backlog/failures, will be eligible to apply for the Direct PhD
(subject to availability at ITM).

b) Selected students will move to IIT Madras in their 4th year.

c) Credits earned during the 7” and 8” semesters at IIT Madras shall have
equivalence to the credit needed for the 4th year of the B. Tech program. The

credits will be transferred to the student's home institution for the award of the
Blech degree.

d) After successfully completing the 7” and 8" sernesters with CGPA > 8.0 at IIT
Madras, and being selected for admission to the direct PhD program, these
students are eligible for HTRA for five years from the date of joining the Direct
PhD program. Students from CFTIs having a CGPA of 8 and above, will be
eligible for the award of HTRA without the requirement of GATE. Students
admitted from non-CFTIs are required to qualify in GATE for becoming eligible
for the award of HTRA.

e) The direct PhD students must complete the candidacy examination within 3
semesters after joining the direct PhD program of IIT Madras.

f) If a student earns a CGPA < 8.0 in the courses in the 7” and 8” semesters at IIT
~“ Madras, the student will be transferred back to the home institution along with
credits earned, ;

) If a student is not found fit to continue in the PhD program by their doctoral
) committee, they will be allowed to drop out any time after the i" year of PhD, at
which point the B. Tech credits will be transferred to the parent institute.

Specific Operational aspects agreed to by National Institute of Technology Agartala
and ITM

1. Natlonal Institute of Technology Agartala will make an_ internal
announcement to all the students who are in the top 10% of their class at the
end of their Sth semester, with a minimum CGPA of 8.0 and without
backlogs/failures, and encourage such students to apply for admission into a
Direct PhD program at IIT Madras to those Department(s) in which they meet
the eligibility norms for the regular PhD program (will be subjected to


--- Page 6 ---
availability at IITM), through the online portal between 1“ March and 30
March every year.

   

| 2. National Institute of Technology Agartala will encourage and recommend
|

such students to opt for the summer fellowship of IITM at the end of their 6th
semester.

3. National Institute of Technology Agartala will forward the list of students
who are within the top 10% of their class, with a minimum CGPA of 8.0 and
without backlogs/failures, along with their contact details, to the Dean

(Academic Research), IIT Madras soon after the 6th-semester results are
declared,

4. IIT Madras will forward the list of selected students for summer fellowship to

National Institute of Technology Agartala and also inform the respective
students.

5. Selected students of National Institute of Technology Agartala will move to
IIT Madras at the end of 6” Semester i

IIT Madras, On Successful completion of the summer fellowship and on a
favorable recommendation of the Hosting faculty and approved by the Head of
Department, they may be Permitted to’

Madras.

9Y Agartala will permit these students
(selected for direct PhD program based on availability at IITM) to Pursue the

final year of their B. Tech program (7" and Bt Semester) at IIT Madras.

7. National Institute of Technology Agartala will provide some flexibility in the
Curriculum for these Students to facilitate them to complete the credits to be
earned towards the award of the B

Tech degree. Detailed planning of the
Courses to be taken at IIT Madras will b

8 jointly decided by the faculty advisor
of the student at National Institute of Technology Agartala and the
guide-designate at IIT Madras

8. These Students should earn a minimum CGPA of 8.0 in 7®
IIT Madras, to become eligible to join in t
Student will be transferred back
along with the credits eamed.

and 8" semester at
he direct PhD Program. Otherwise, the
to National Institute of Technology Agartala

9. These students are not eli
the end of their
8" semester.

gible for campus Pplacemen

t through IIT Madras at
first year, of Study at IIT Madras, whic

h will be the end of their

10. The student will Pay the tuition fee to National Institute of Technology
Agartala during their 7" and gm

Semesters. After joining as a direct PhD
student, the student will pay the tuition fee a

Ppropriate for PhD scholars as per
regulations of IIT Madras, to IIT Madras.

11. With the concurrence of the guide-designate at IITM and the Doctoral
Committee, faculty members from National Institute of Technology Agartala
may serve as co-guides for these students, whenever possible ITM
encourages such a practice, but the decision is left to the discretion of the
Gulde-designate.

baa ACE Scanner


--- Page 7 ---
12. These Students shall come under the purview of

the 7" ang gn Semester BTech of National Institute

in their 7" ang gn Semesters, and under the PhD ordinances and Regulations
of IIT Madras Once they join the direct PhD.

13. For Candidates wh

 

j i toral
14. If a student is not found fit to continue in the PhD Program by their Doc
Committee, they will be allowed to drop out any time after the 1* yer ada
| direct PhD, at which point the 7" and 8” semester credits will be transferre
. National Institute of Technology Agartala for the award of B. Tech degree,


--- Page 8 ---
Annexure 4

Admission of the top 10% of BTech Students of National Institute of Technology Agartala
to MS by research Program at IITM (subjected to availability of seats at IITM)

Extract of Senate Norms for top 1
Te

0% of BTech Students of National Institute of
chnology Agartala Seeking admissi

Ssion to MS by research Program at IITM.

a) Top 10% of the B. Tech Students from other Institutions (which agree to
Participate in the pro

gram) who are in their 3rd year, with a minimum CGPA of
8.0 and without backlog/failures, will be el

igible to apply for the MS by research
(subject to availability at IITM).

b) Selecteg Students will Move to IIT Madras in their 4th year.

C) Credits Samed during the 7m and gt Semesters at |IT Madras shall have
®quivalence to the credit Néeded for the 4th year of the B. Tech Program. The

credits will be transferred to the student's home institution for the award of the
BTech degree,

sémesters with CGPA > 8.0 at IIT
to the MS by research Program,

we cangee ens as BL: nl

 

 


--- Page 9 ---
2. National
such studens to apracghmlogy Agartala will encourage and recommend
semester. Summer fellowship of IITM at the end of their 6th

Nation
se ese of Technology Agartala will forward the list of Students
without backic Toh oar thelr class, with a minimum CGPA of 8.0 and

Cgs/failures, along with their contact details, to the Dean

(Academic Re
declared, Search), IIT Madras soon after the 6th-semester results are

 

IT Madras will forward the list of
Selected students for summer fellowship to
| ‘ae Institute of Technology Agartala and also inform the veipactien

9. Selected students of National Institute of Technology Agartala will move to
IIT Madras at the end of 6" Semester and undergo paid summer fellowship at
IIT Madras. On Successful completion of the summer fellowship and on a
favorable recommendation of the Hosting faculty and approved by the Head of

een they may be permitted to pursue their 7" and 8" semesters at IIT
adras,

6. National Institute of Technology Agartala will permit these students
(selected for MS by research program based on availability at ITM) to pursue
the final year of their B, Tech Program (7" and 8" semester) at IIT Madras,

7. National Institute of Technology Agartala will provide some flexibility in the
curriculum for these students to facilitate them to complete the credits to be
earned towards the award of the B Tech degree. Detailed planning of the
courses to be taken at IIT Madras will be jointly decided by the faculty advisor
of the student at National Institute of Technology Agartala and the
guide-designate at IIT Madras

8. These students should earn a minimum CGPA of 8.0 in 7" and 8" semester at
IIT Madras, to become eligible to join in the MS by research program.
Otherwise, the student will be transferred back to National Institute of
Technology Agartala along with the credits earned.

9. These students are not eligible for campus placement through IIT Madras at
the end of their first year, of study at IIT Madras, which will be the end of their
8" semester.

10. The student will pay the tuition fee to National Institute of Technology
Agartala during their 7" and 8" semesters. After joining as a MS by research
student, the student will pay the tuition fee appropriate for MS by research
scholars as per regulations of IIT Madras, to IIT Madras.

i General Test

ith the concurrence of the guide-designate at IITM and the
S Come an faculty members from National Institute of Technology Agartala
may serve as co-guides for these students, whenever possible ITM
encourages such a practice, but the decision is left to the discretion of the

Guide-designate.
12. These students shall come under the purview of the guidelines/regulations for

f Technology Agartala
” " semester BTech of National Institute o
ftw ae 8" semesters, and under the MS ordinances and Regulations of


--- Page 10 ---
\IT Madras once they join the MS by research program.

13, If a student is not found fit to continue in the MS by research program by their
General Test Committee, they will be allowed to drop out any time after the 1°
year of the MS by research program, at which point the 7" and 8" semester
credits will be transferred to National Institute of Technology Agartala for the
award of the B.Tech degree.
