
--- Page 1 ---
 

Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur, Maharashtra

 

 

Memorandum of Understanding

 

   

between

 

and

 

National Institute of Technology, Agartala, Tripura State.

Contract Partners :

Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, (VNIT) Nagpur, Maharashtra
and National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA), Tripura State.

Principal Agreement :

Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur, Maharashtra (VNIT)
and National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA), agree to enter into a
bilateral agreement for a tie-up to facilitate academic and _ technical
collaboration and therefore, the two Institutes, VNIT and NITA, are signing a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on this the 29" day of Deé@ 2019, as
per the articles set below under the twinning program of TEQIP III. This
particular MOU must be treated as an extended part of the original MOU
signed between VNIT and NITA dated 20-06-2018.

Article-1.0: THE SCOPE OF MOU:

The scope of MOU additionally covers hosting of a joint collaborative M Tech
program under Mechanical Engineering Department of NIT Agartala, namely
Material Science and Engineering with the existing matters of collaborative
R&D, academic interaction leading to reforms in curriculum, student
exchange associated with transfer of credits, faculty exchange, sharing of

resources, accessibility to sophisticated instruments, sharing of knowledge of
best practices.

Pagelof4

 


--- Page 2 ---
 

Nagpur.
b) The fee of second semester can be transferred to VNIT Nagpur with

mutual agreement.
c) The project and thesis may be done at NIT Agartala or at VNIT Nagpur,

but the evaluation will be followed as per the norms of NIT Agartala after

third and fourth or final semester respectively.

e) The thesis guidance may be taken jointly by taking a faculty each from
NIT Agartala and VNIT Nagpur. The supervisor may be chosen from the
institute where the student intends to do the thesis. The students,

carrying out thesis made in the final year will be given opportunity to
appear into the placement activities by both the institutes.

would be twenty as customarily followed at NIT Agartala.
nN) Similarly, the students wil be taking courses at par convenience of VNIT

Nagpur.
) A comprehensive viva bearing: one credit each will be compensated

 


--- Page 3 ---
Article 3.0
General Terms

Article — 3.1

In addition, it is envisaged that each activity, in view of flexibility and
effectiveness of implementation that the parties wish to pursue in
accordance with the purpose of this MOU will be governed by terms and
conaitions to be separately negotiated and mutually agreed upon by the
parties through the signing of one or more subsidiary agreements.

Article - 3.2 |

Any clause or article of the MOU may be modified or amended by mutual
agreement of VNIT and NITA.

 

Article-4.0 '

4.1 In case of joint research projects, the research findings, patents and all
other intellectual property rights shall exclusively be owned by VNIT and
NITA.

4.2 The expenditure connected with securing and maintaining the
Intellectual Property Rights shall be shared between the two
institutes (VNIT and NITA) proportionally, based on their respective
intellectual, material and financial contributions and decided on a case-to-
case Dasis.

 

     

   

Article — 5.0

5.1 This MOU shall be effective for an initial period of six years from the date
of signing. Thereafter, this MOU may be extended for further periods of six
years or for any other period of time as deemed appropriate by both the
parties, subject to their mutual consent of any such extension to be made in
writing. | oe

5.2 Either party may terminate this MOU by giving a written notice of
termination of at least six months in advance citing valid reason which is
mutually agreeable. If agreed by both the parties, a third party negotiator

may be entrusted and judge the veracity of reason/ factor / cause cited by
the institute.

5.3 In the event of termination of MOU, for whatever reasons, both parties
agree to fulfil their respective commitments in respect of the students,
research scholars, faculty involved in the activities which are in vogue during

WS
Se


--- Page 4 ---
such termination time _and MOU will be considered to be in force till
completion of such activities.

Article -— 6.0

Arbitration
In case of any dispute arising out of this agreement, the heads of the

institutes shall endeavour to resolve such controversy or dispute by mutual
discussions and in good faith.

This MoU between VNIT, and the NITA, Tripura is now established by the
signatures of the Directors of the two institutes.

For VNIT Nagpur for NIT Agartala

 

 

  
   

(Prof. Prof eas wie (Prof. Harish Kumar Sharma)
Director : | Director
VNIT, Nagpur (MH) NIT Agartala, Tripura State

Witnesses:

 

ma
we
| 1. i Se
VNIT, Nagpur NIT Agartala
Awl
Zi

 

VNIT, Nag DU r | “NIT Agartala

Page 4of4
