
--- Page 1 ---
 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
(MoU)

BETWEEN

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA

and

srrectar steatrst

Fat AAT

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY JAMMU

feared acer gory

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
JAMMU

FOR

ACADEMIC, RESEARCH
COLLABORATIONS & STUDENTS
EXCHANGE PROGRAMMES

Delh: Date: goft fas

 


--- Page 2 ---
 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
AND
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, JAMMU

This is a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) Dated July 2023
between

NIT Agartala, a premier academic institution of Repute, incorporated under National Institute
of Technology Act, 2007, having its permanent campus and office at NIT Agartala, Barjala,
Jirania, Tripura West.

and

The Indian Institute of Technology Jammu, recognized as an “Institute of National
Importance” under the “Institutes of Technology Act” of 1961, is an autonomous public
higher education Institute funded by the Government of India, and functions under the
governance of the IIT Council. IT Jammu was inaugurated on 6th August 2016 and is
located in its permanent campus and office at IIT Jammu, Jagti, NH-44 , PO Nagrota,
Jammu - 181 221 J&K

National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA) and Indian Institute of Technology Jammu
(IIT Jammu) have agreed to the following protocols governing their collaboration on
academic and research activities.

1. Scope

The scope of collaboration on academic and research activities in this Memorandum of
Understanding includes the following categories.

(i) Collaborative research projects in areas of common interest, joint supervision of PhD
students, organization of joint workshops and seminars, etc.

(ii) Exchange of students and faculty, exchange of academic information, scholarly
information, materials and publications as per the rules of both the institutes and
consent of involved persons.

(iii) Admission of NIT Agartala students for direct or early M.Tech/Ph.D. at IIT
Jammu/Joint PhD/PG, subject to the existence of the policy approved by the
appropriate body of the host institution. The applicable rules and regulations shall be
determined and as approved by the respective Senates of both the institutes in
concurrence with one another.

 


--- Page 3 ---
 

(iv) Creating a shared pool of faculty members in each basic discipline at IIT Jammu and
the NIT Agartala. Such a shared pool of faculty expertise is meant to facilitate the
reciprocal utilization of the expertise of faculty members at one institute for teaching
courses, conducting joint research, submission of joint project proposals, and other
collaborative academic activities at the other institute. The modus operandi of these
joint activities shall be laid out after mutual approval of terms and conditions
formulated and mutually agreed upon by the two institutions

 


--- Page 4 ---
 

 
 

2. Research Collaboration

  
     

Faculty from both Institutions will collaborate in the supervision of exchange students and in
joint research in disciplines of mutual interest. All such joint research activities will be
governed by the terms as given below:

 
 
     

21 Proposals for collaborative research work under this Memorandum will be submitted
with the prior approval of the Head of each institution, or his/her nominee.

  
     

2.2 Each institution will nominate one of its members as its representative in charge of

the cooperative programme. Individual programmes of work under _ this
Memorandum will be jointly planned and conducted by the nominees of both
Institutes.

    
      
  

Progress of work of any individual programme will be reviewed and approved by
designated authorities of both Institutes.

    
    

2.4 The final approval of any project will depend on the availability of guaranteed
support funds.

 
 

2.5 Neither NIT Agartala, nor IIT Jammu will be held responsible for any liability to the
other party, and neither party shall be required to purchase any insurance against loss
or damage to any property due to activities to which this agreement relates.

 
   
   
 
  

2.6 Every collaboration will have its own agreement/contract which addresses issues
such as IPR, funding pattern, usage policies of research facilities, disclosure of
information etc.

     
      

3. Students and Faculty Exchange

Both the Institutes will encourage exchange of B.Tech, M.Tech students, and faculty,
according to the terms laid out in this MoU. It is expected by both the parties that there will
be a significant flow of students/faculty in both directions.

 
   
 
     

3.1 Students under the exchange programme will be classified as “Exchange students”. The
exchange students will be permitted to take courses on credit/audit, as well as
participate in research activities/internships/project work.

  
    
 

3.2 In any such cases, prior consent of the teacher/project supervisors/research supervisors
must be obtained. Such consent will take into account, among other things, whether the
student has pre-requisites for the course/project.

 
      

3.3 Neither institution will levy admission or tuition fees on exchange students studying for
a short duration in a particular semester. However, their short-term stay will be subject
to lodging and boarding charges. The exchange visits of students for a full semester or
more shall be decided on the basis of the terms and conditions mutually agreed upon by

- both the parties.

 
   
       
 
  

3.4 Course credits and grades earned will be determined by the home institution based on
the grade report issued by the host institution.

 
 

3.5 The number of students and duration of stay will be worked out on a case-to-case basis.

 
   
 

Participants may not spend more than one year normally in the exchange programme.


--- Page 5 ---
3.7 Participants will adhere to the rules and regulations of the host institution and adjust to
available resources by conforming to appropriate guidelines.

3.8 The faculty of NIT Agartala may also apply for suitable postdoctoral positions or any
other similar opportunities available at IT Jammu. Availing any such opportunity at
IIT Jammu will be subject to administrative terms and conditions of NIT Agartala, in
regard to relieving the faculty of their regular duty in the parent institution.

Selection and Nomination

Applications will be invited from the students of NIT Agartala for the exchange program.
The selection and nomination of students is open throughout the academic year. The
nomination of students shall be accompanied by

(1) Curriculum vitae
(ii) Statement of aptitude from a member of the student’s school/faculty.

(iii) A specific outline of the programme of study intended at the host institution, and a
statement of objectives of the study program.

It is presumed that, when a nomination is forwarded to the host institute, the home institute
considers the nominated student to be adequately suitable for the proposed program, and
consents to send the student if selected by the host institution.

The host institution will evaluate the nominations and determine their suitability for selection
under the Exchange Programme.

Where the exchange student is pursuing a research or implementation project as part of the
UG/PG/PhD, (or equivalent) degree programme, the host institution will provide a suitable
faculty member to jointly assist (along with the supervisor in the parent Institution) the
exchange student in formulating a research project, or jointly supervising the exchange
student in the event that a research project has already been identified.

The host institution will inform the home institution of any academic or other problems that
may arise for a student during the period of his/her residency in the host institution. The host
institution in cooperation with the home institution will deal with and try to manage such
problems.

Course Identification and Course Credit

The identification of courses available and offered at IIT Jammu, which may be considered
equivalent in standard to courses taught at NIT Agartala for the completion of credit
requirements of the B. Tech. program of NIT Agartala, will be decided by the appropriate
Academic Bodies of NIT Agartala, for each individual student, in concurrence with decisions
taken by the relevant Departments/Disciplines at IIT Jammu.

4. Direct M.Tech/Ph.D Admission

Providing an opportunity to the students currently pursuing Bachelor of Technology
(B.Tech.) NIT Agartala to explore the option to undertake courses in HT Jammu and be
considered for early admission to the M.Tech/PhD programme at IIT Jammu.

 


--- Page 6 ---
This scheme is intended to enable meritorious B.Tech students of NIT Agartala, to carry out
part of their studies, including project work, at IIT Jammu and secure an opportunity for
direct admission to M.Tech/PhD without the need to qualify GATE or any other national
level examination. This will enable qualified B. Tech. students into the M.Tech./PhD
programme as early as the end of their 6" semester. Students under the Direct M.Tech./Ph.D.
programme will be classified as “Visiting students” till the completion of their B.Tech.
Degree. It is envisaged that this scheme will also help NIT Agartala, students to enhance their
chances of qualifying for the PMRF fellowship for PhD at IIT Jammu.

4.1 Student Selection: Under this scheme, NIT Agartala, students who have a CGPA of 7.5
at the end of their sixth semester (end of third year), will be eligible to apply to HT Jammu
and complete their fourth year (7 and 8" semesters), at IIT Jammu, and then be considered
for an early admission into the M.Tech./PhD program at IIT Jammu, subject to maintaining
an overall CGPA of 7.5 in UG degree. However, having a CGPA of 7.5 does not guarantee
their selection in the early-induction PhD program at the IITJMU.

All applications will be received through a portal set up for this purpose, through which they
will submit their transcripts, and other academic records and achievements, and documentary
evidence of any research or internship experience.

Upon selection, through a selection committee set up for the purpose, the students will have
an offer of admission to the M.Tech./PhD program. The students are expected to demonstrate
sufficient merit in course work, project work and/or research during their 7" and 8 semesters
of B.Tech in order to continue towards getting the offer of admission into the M.Tech/PhD
program. If the performance of the students is not up to the mark as per the guidelines of IIT
Jammu, the students will be required to withdraw from the programme and return to their
home institute, NIT Agartala, along with the credits earned. During their stay through the 7
and 8" semesters in IIT Jammu, the students will have the status of a Visiting Student, and
will enjoy all the privileges of a regular full-time student at IIT Jammu.

4.2 Non-completion of B. Tech. Requirements at IIT Jammu

If a visiting student’s performance is found unsatisfactory at the host institution (that is,
unable to maintain an overall average grade point of 7.5 on the scale of 10), the student shall
be transferred back to the home institution (NIT Agartala) along with credits earned. Such a
student will not thereafter be considered for the early induction M.Tech/PhD programme at
IIT Jammu. However, any such student back to NIT Agartala will be entitled to get the B.
Tech. degree, provided he/she completes all the requirements of the B. Tech. programme at
NIT Agartala.

4.3 During their stay through the 7th and 8" semesters in ITT Jammu, the students may take
appropriate courses to satisfy the credit requirements for their B.Tech registration in their
parent institution (NIT Agartala,). IIT Jammu will certify the completion of the courses and
the grades obtained, including project works done at IIT Jammu. The courses to be taken by
the student at the host institution must be discussed well in advance with the relevant person
of contact (preferably Dean of Academics) at the home institute, so that there is no repetition
of any courses during the 7" or 8" Semester. It is the responsibility of the visiting student to
coordinate with both the institutes and become familiar with the courses to be offered in the
7 and 8" semesters at IIT Jammu. They must ensure that these courses are suitable for the

 


--- Page 7 ---
 

eventual award of B.Tech degree by NIT Agartala. In case a particular course has already
been completed at the home institution, the host institute may offer alternative suitable
courses after the respective HoDs/Faculty Advisors of both the institutions mutually agree on
the appropriate choice of alternative courses.

4.4 Students will join the M.Tech/PhD program only after the completion of all graduation
requirements at NIT Agartala, which would be typically in the month of July. All shortlisting
criteria and admission criteria must be satisfied by the student at the time of joining PhD as
well. Requirement of GATE will be waived, given that a minimum CGPA of 7.5 is a
necessary condition for admission into the M.Tech/PhD programme of IIT Jammu.

4.5. For all academic/project work undertaken at IIT Jammu, transcripts will be provided with
relevant credits. However, the calculation of these credits for the purpose of mapping them on
to the letter grades will be left to NIT Agartala, as per their grading system. Students may
also undertake Pre-Ph.D. courses for earning additional credits for their M.Tech/PhD
program, during their stay (in a regular semester) at IIT Jammu. Students can later claim
these courses for their M.Tech/PhD degree requirement. However, such courses shall not be
used for the award of B.Tech degree at NIT Agartala, and a certificate of commitment to this
effect shall be submitted by the student.

4.6. Students coming under this program will not be entitled for participation in the Training
& Placement process and campus placement for UG students in IIT Jammu or in NIT
Agartala. This condition will be clearly stated in the letter offering admission.

4.7 By default, the admission is an entry into a “Direct PhD programme” for a student who
satisfies all the prerequisites of admission laid down by IIT Jammu. However, a student will
have an exit option, with an M. Tech. Degree, after two years of study in the programme,
provided the credit requirements for the award of an M. Tech. Degree by IIT Jammu are
fulfilled by the student.

5. Commencement, renewal, termination, and amendment

This MoU will come into force upon affixing of the signatures of the representatives of the
partner institutions and will remain in effect for five (5) years. This MoU may be renewed
upon its expiry, with the agreement of both the partner institutions. If either partner institution
wishes to terminate the MoU before five years, it must notify the other institution not less
than six months prior to the expiry of the MoU. In any case, if there are students pursuing
their final year courses, they will be allowed to complete the program as agreed upon and will
qualify for M.Tech/Ph.D. as envisaged in the original MoU.

This MoU or its renewal and the actions taken under it may be reviewed at any time.
Modifications may be made by mutual agreement and any amendment or extension to the
agreement may be formalized by the exchange of letters between the two parties.

 


--- Page 8 ---
Signed by;

(Prof. Manoj Singh Gaur)

Director

Indian Institute of Technology, Jammu
Jammu & Kashmir

Date: 20]5-| 24

Institute Seal:

 

Signed by:

(Prof. S.K. Patr
Director 4. RT BAR gar

National Institutes Feo ofa gartala
ctor

Agartala, TIN@8idl institute of Technolog
Agartala. ’

Date: GO |) 202”

Institute Seal:

 
