
--- Page 1 ---
 

srreciter stent faret
Seat SAY

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY JAMMU

fetes mies gure

Joint Doctoral Degree Program
Between

Indian Institute of Technology Jammu

and

National Institute of Technology Agartala


--- Page 2 ---
 

AGREEMENT FOR JOINT DEGREE PROGRAM:

DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY

Between

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JAMMU

and

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA


--- Page 3 ---
 

 

 

AGREEMENT FOR JOINT DEGREE PROGRAM: Doctor of Philosophy
THIS AGREEMENT is made on DD/MM/YY (Effective Date)

BETWEEN:

1. INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JAMMU, an educational institution
created by an Act of Parliament and having its principal address at The Indian
Institute of Technology Jammu, NH44, Jagti, Nagrota, Jammu, 181221, India CUT
Jammu")

And

2. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA, an educational
institution created by an Act of Parliament and having its principal address at The
National Institute of Technology Agartala, Paschim Barjala, Tripura 799046, India
(“NIT Agartala”). .

The expression Institution shall mean either IIT Jammu or NIT Agartala, Party means
a party to this Agreement and Parties means both parties to this Agreement.

WHEREAS:

1. On 20/06/23 the Parties entered into this Agreement to develop academic and
Student exchange through a Joint Degree Program (JDP) of Doctor of
Philosophy (PhD) whereby students who successfully complete the JDP will be
awarded a joint degree for the one thesis with the testamurs/certificates from
Home Institution clearly indicating the joint nature of the degrees with logo of
both Institutes embossed on the certificate.

2. By entering into this Agreement, the Parties agree to offer Joint Degree Programs
at PhD level in all areas of research in accordance with the terms and conditions
set out in this Agreement.


--- Page 4 ---
ABBREVIATIONS

ERP: External Registration Program
IIT Jammu: Indian Institute of Technology Jammu

JDP. Joint Degree Program
NIT Agartala: National Institute of Technology Agartala

PhD: Doctor of Philosophy

DC: Doctoral Advisory Committee

HoD: Head of the Department

JASC: Joint Admissions Sub-committee

NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:

1. JOINT DEGREE PROGRAM STRUCTURE:

1.1. The program offers PhD students enrolled in both institutions the chance to
collaborate on multidisciplinary research projects with faculty members and
research teams from IIT Jammu and NIT Agartala, as well as to take advantage of the
facilities and professional development opportunities offered by both institutions.

1.2. Candidates have a “Home Institution" where they begin their studies and
spend the majority of time. The expectation is that the candidates will spend
a minimum of 12 months at the other, “Host” Institution; the timing and duration of
this will depend on the program of research but in general will be in the second or
third year of the degree’.

“Candidates registered as part-time/off campus PhD or under External Registration
program need to spend the minimum residential requirement criteria of both the institute as

mentioned in their ordinances and regulations.


--- Page 5 ---
 

1.3 Additional conditions for the JPD are:
« Undertake a program of progress monitoring and examination that meets the

requirements of both institutions

* Comply with the rules, regulations, policies, codes and procedures of both

institutions

* Write and submit a thesis for defense by oral examination at the home

institution

1.4. Candidates for the PhD JDP will be enrolled in the PhD program of both institutions.
The supervisory team will comprise academics from both institutions who will provide
guidance and support throughout the doctoral program. Candidates will benefit from
the networking, and collaborations between the research communities of IIT Jammu
and NIT Agartala. Through enrolment at both institutions, the candidates will have
access to services and support provided both at IIT Jammu and NIT Agartala,
including a variety of professional and personal development opportunities for

researchers.

1.5. Candidates may have already commenced a PhD at their Home Institution prior
to converting in the joint PhD program through enrolment at the Host Institution. In
such cases, the scholarship and duration of Ph.D. will be counted from the
start date of the original enrolment at the home institution.

1.6. The primary supervisor shall be from the Home Institution. There must be a Joint

supervisor from the Host Institution.

1.7. The PhD JDP includes a tailored program of progress monitoring to fulfil the
requirements of both institutions. On successful completion of the program
requirements, candidates will be awarded a PhD degree jointly by both the

Institutions.


--- Page 6 ---
2. PROGRAM GOVERNANCE

2.1, The Program is governed by Deanery of Academics of both the institutes. The
Dean (Academics) will ensure that the Program requirements of each institution is

followed and advise on candidature related matters.

2.2. The Program will be operationalized and managed by the office of the Office of
Dean, Academics at IIT Jammu and the Office of Dean, Academic Affairs at NIT
Agartala.

e IIT Jammu — Associate Dean (Academics, Research Programs) (Email:
adrp@iitjammu.ac.in)
e NIT Agartala - Dean (Academic) (Email: drsbhaumik@gmail.com)

3. APPLICATION AND ADMISSIONS

3.1. The admission process will be managed by the IIT Jammu and NIT
Agartala Joint Admissions Sub-committee (JASC) constituted at the
School/Department/Centre level and according to each Institution’s admissions
procedure. Candidates must meet the admissions requirements of both institutions.
The eligibility criteria for enrolling in a joint PhD program will be same as that of a
regular PhD program of the individual institute. The details of the same can be found
in the PhD ordinance of the individual institute.

e = IIT Jammu: https://iitjammu.ac.in/academics-rules-and-regulations
e NIT Agartala:https://www.nita.ac.in/uploaded_files/Rules_PhD_2018.pdf

3.2. JASC will release a call for PhD research proposal from prospective supervisors
(typically in March and September each year, for the August and January intakes,
respectively).

3.3. The proposals will be selected on a competitive review basis by the Dean
(Academics), based on criteria such as proposal funding, expected outcomes,

supervision capacity and expertise and/or industry support/involvement.


--- Page 7 ---
 

3.4. Each project on the PhD JDP will have a formal proposal agreement in place
between the two institutions. The format for this agreement is attached as Annexure
A1/A2.

3.5. The proposal agreement needs to be signed by the joint supervisors, endorsed
by the respective School/Centre/Department Chairs/HoDs and approved by both the
institute

3.6. Successful proposals will be advertised on both the institute's website to attract
potential PhD candidates.

3.7. All applicants will be expected to apply through an online admissions portal.
Applicants will be directed to this portal from both the Institute’s academic

affairs/Admissions website.

3.8. As part of the applications process, applicants may choose up to N proposals
(where N is normally 2 or 3). Supervisors from both IIT Jammu and NIT Agartala will be
provided access to this portal to view applications. Each proposal will specify the base
location (IIT Jammu or NIT Agartala) where funding is available for the proposal
and applicants would also be able to provide their preference for the proposal.

3.9. Detailed applications from the selected applicants (and aligned with specific
proposals that have been chosen) will then be reviewed by proposal supervisors.
Based on their own assessments, some (or all) of these applicants for each proposal
will be interviewed by the IIT Jammu and NIT Agartala supervisors of the proposal.
This interview can be telephonic, via videoconferencing, or through a face-to-face
meeting, as decided by the supervisors. Supervisors will rank candidates and
provide a recommendation of a maximum of M preferences (where M is usually 2 or 3)
for their proposals to the JASC.


--- Page 8 ---
 

3.10. Shortlisted applicants will undergo either a written test or a joint interview or both
with the JASC. Note that JASC will look at applicant proposal preferences and also
comments from the supervisors subsequent to their conversations with the applicants.

3.11. This admission process will be reviewed periodically on recommendations

that JASC makes to Dean (Academics) for its consideration and approval.

3.12. After each selection round, JASC will submit its recommendations to the Dean
(Academics) who will consider these recommendations and forward the
recommendations to the Institute Program Admission Committee (IPAC)/Senate
of both the institute for approval. Successful applicants will be issued an offer letter
by the Home institute, which will be based on the standard offer letters from IIT
Jammu or NIT Agartala. The offer letter should include information on the JDP and
the proposal title/area for which the candidate is recruited, as well as comply with

all requirements set forth by the two institutes.

3.13. Offers will always be “conditional offers of candidature”. These conditional
offers will only be confirmed subject to receipt of original certified transcripts and
further documentary evidence as requested by JASC. Students will be required to
accept their offer in line with deadlines noted in their offer letter. It is not possible for
students to defer commencement of their program; if they are unable to commence
on the date stated in their offer letter, they must decline the offer and apply in a

future round.

3.14. Lateral Entry: For students already at IIT Jammu or NIT Agartala, they should
be enrolled for at least 6 months prior to PhD thesis registration and should
include in their submission an approved NOC from IIT Jammu or NIT Agartala
respectively. These candidates do not need to face the JASC for interview. Their
applications will be directly put to the Dean (Academics) for consideration and

approval.


--- Page 9 ---
 

4. PROPOSAL AGREEMENTS

4.1, Both the institutes shall enter into a ‘Research Project Title agreement’ for each
individual project/student. This must be completed and signed before an unconditional
offer of enrolment into the joint PhD program is made to each applicant under joint
supervision. This should usually be initiated by the Home Institution using the template
in the joint PhD agreement (Annexure A1/A2) at the time of releasing advertisement.

4.2. A risk assessment must be undertaken for each proposal by the supervisory
team at each institution, according to their own requirements. In case, any of
the supervisor leaves the parent institution due to any reason whatsoever, it will be the
responsibility of that institution to arrange the replacement of supervisor from their
own faculty. The outgoing faculty member (earlier supervisor) may act co-guide to

the maximum possible extent.

5. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

5.1, A Student Research Committee (SRC)/ Doctoral Advisory Committee (DC) shall
be set up for each JDP Scholar to support and monitor progress of the JDP Scholar
throughout the candidature until the thesis has been submitted. The committee shall

consist of the following members

 

 

 

 

‘1. Chair/Head of the School/Department of the Home Institute or Chairperson |
his/her nominee or as per the home institution norms
1.Supervisor from the Home institute Member
2.Supervisor from the Host institute Member
3. Co-supervisor (s), if any with justification Member (s)
4. Subject Expert from the Home Institution Member
ee eee


--- Page 10 ---
5. Additional members may be appointed to meet the requirements

5.2. In case any SRC/DC member goes on leave exceeding one-year duration, or
resigns or retires from the respective Institution, the respective
School/Department/Centre Chair/HoD shall nominate another member following their

respective procedures.

5.3. The SRC/DC shall meet once a year through video conferencing/ electronic
communication. Beyond four years from the time of registration in the program, the
DC shall meet every six months until the JDP Scholar's thesis has been submitted in

accordance with the rules and regulations of both the Institutions.

6. FEEs, SCHOLARSHIPS AND FUNDING

6.1. The JDP Scholar shall pay tuition fees only to their Home Institution throughout
the duration of the JDP including the duration of study at the Partner Institution as

per its fee structure.

6.2. Unless otherwise indicated, candidates who wish to be admitted onto the PhD
JDP are entitled to receive fellowship meeting the eligibility criteria. The cost of
fellowship will be borne by the Home Institute even during the candidate's stay in the
Host Institute. No tuition fee will be charged by the host institution. However, the
student needs to bear the boarding and lodging charges. Scholarships are awarded
based on merit, and the value and conditions of any scholarship awarded will be in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the awarding institution. Students getting
external fellowships like UGC, CSIR etc. may also be considered.

6.4. In accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), both institutions
will support up to a particular number of PhD Joint Degree Program (JDP) scholarships
from each Institute based on mutual agreements. Each academic year's figures


--- Page 11 ---
 

could be different. These scholarships are in addition to each institution's regular
scholarship cycles and will not count toward a PhD students' specific faculty cap.

6.5. Regardless of the scholarship awarded, students on the joint PhD program will
be personally responsible for the following expenses unless otherwise advised:

e Incidental fees and charges at either institution
e« Accommodation and living expenses at either institution
e All personal expenses and non-compulsory additional fees at the host

institution

e All debts incurred by candidates during their stay at either institution
e Any other debts incurred by candidates during the Joint PhD Program

Further the grants in respect of attending conferences will be provided only

by the home institute.

7. COURSEWORK REQUIREMENTS

The JDP Scholar shall satisfy the minimum academic coursework requirements of the
Home Institution. Additional courses may be taken when recommended by the DC. If
a JDP scholar credits a course in one institution, the credits will be automatically
transferred to the other institution and will be counted towards the degree

requirement.

8. COMPREHENSIVE EXAMINATION AND CONFIRMATION OF PHD CANDIDATURE

The JDP Scholar shall be required to meet the requirement of course works and
comprehensive examination or equivalent examination satisfactorily at the home
Institute during the normally allowed period or the probationary PhD period (where
applicable), to continue with the JDP. Otherwise, they shall no longer be eligible to
participate in the JDP. The comprehensive or the equivalent examination will be as
per the prevailing guidelines of the Home Institution.


--- Page 12 ---
 

9. PROGRESS MEETING / SYNOPSIS / THESIS

9.1. JDP Scholars shall normally follow the regulations stipulated by the Home
Institution for monitoring their progress. However, submission of synopsis and
submission and evaluation of the thesis shall be in line with the requirements of the

home Institutions.

9.2. JDP Scholar shall present at least two open seminars in the Home as well as

Host Institution. A joint seminar (via video conferencing) will also be acceptable.

10. TIME DURATION

10.1. The JDP regular scholar shall spend a minimum of one year at the Host
Institution working under the supervision of the joint-supervisor(s). They may take
additional courses at the Host Institution as recommended by the DC. The JDP part-
time/ERP scholar must fulfil home institution guidelines for ERP student at individual
institute. Candidates registered as part-time PhD or under External Registration
program need to spend the minimum residential requirement criteria of both the

institute as mentioned in their respective ordinances and regulations.

10.2. As far as possible, the minimum and maximum (if applicable) duration of the
program will be governed by the rules of both Institutions. In the event of an
inconsistency in the durations, the longer duration will apply.

10.3. The JDP Scholar shall be entitled to the leave benefits (if any) that relate to the
Institution at which the JDP Scholar is physically located when the leave is requested.

10.4. The JDP scholars are expected to complete their theses within a maximum
duration as prescribed in the ordinance and regulations of the home institute from the

date of registration.

 


--- Page 13 ---
 

 

11.Ethics approval

All candidates must obtain all necessary human, animal and biosafety ethics
approvals from both institutions. If either institution does not have the necessary
approvals processes, the other institution’s approvals process will be used.
Candidates will also need to be appropriately inducted in terms of Occupational
Health and Safety and any other requirements necessary.

12. WITHDRAWAL AND TERMINATION OF CANDIDATURE

The withdrawal including cancellation and termination (for any approved reason,
including unsatisfactory progress) of JDP candidature for any reason at Home
Institution shall normally be applied in consultation with the Partner Institution. The
Home Institution shall notify the Host Institution if the Home Institution intends to
terminate the candidature under its policies or if the JDP Scholar has advised the
Home Institution of their intention to withdraw from the JDP. In any event, the
DC/SRC shall advise the JDP Scholar on an appropriate course of action to take,
which would be in the best interest of the JDP Scholar.

13. THESIS REVIEW REPORTS & VIVA VOCE EXAMINATION

13.1. Evaluation of thesis by external examiners and conducting of the final viva-
voice examination shall, in general, follow the processes and procedures of the Home

Institution.

13.2. The language of the thesis and the viva voce examination shall be English.

14. AWARD OF DEGREE

A joint degree shall be awarded by the respective Institutions in line with their
respective protocols/styles. The wording in both degree certificates must indicate
unambiguously that the degree is being awarded jointly with the Partner Institution
(by name) for the same thesis. Sample certificates are attached as Annexure B to this

Agreement/document.


--- Page 14 ---
 

15, INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, INVENTIONS AND INNOVATIONS

15.1. All intellectual property held by a Party prior to, or outside of, entering into this
Agreement that is disclosed or introduced in connection with this Agreement and all
materials in which such intellectual property is held, disclosed or introduced (‘background
intellectual property") shall remain the property of the Party introducing or disclosing it.
However, that Party grants the JDP Scholar and/or the other Party a licence to use such
intellectual property for any purpose associated with the JDP.

15.2. All rights, titles and interests in any studies, reports or materials, graphic or otherwise,
prepared by the Home Institution or by the Partner Institution respectively, that is not
background intellectual property or intellectual property created under clause 15.3, will
belong to that Institution and may not be made use of except with that Institution's prior

written consent.

15.3. Where the Institutions jointly develop intellectual property, inventions and innovations
as a result of the research work of the JDP Scholar working under the supervision of the
joint supervisors the terms with respect to title and exploitation of such intellectual property,
inventions and innovations (including but not limited to trademarks and service marks,
copyright, patents, know-how designs and confidential information on the subject of such
intellectual property, inventions and innovations) will be negotiated on a case-by-case basis
having due regard for each Institutions policies and governance requirements and the terms
and conditions imposed by any individual funding agencies or grant-making organizations.
The Parties preference for such case-by- case agreements will be that the intellectual
property rights created in the course of the JDP will vest in each Institution in equal shares
and that each Party may use such jointly-owned intellectual property for internal, non-
commercial research and educational purposes. Save as aforesaid, nothing in this
agreement shall be construed as a license or transfer or an obligation to enter into any
further agreement with respect to intellectual property currently licensed to or belonging to
either Institute.

 


--- Page 15 ---
 

15.4. Nothing in this Agreement will inhibit the right of a JDP Scholar to have their thesis
examined and a copy of their thesis lodged in the library of each Institution (including a

digital copy).

15.5. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in clause 15.3, each JDP Scholar shall own the
copyright in his/her thesis.

15.6. The provisions of this clause 15 will survive beyond the termination of this Agreement

16. CONFIDENTIALITY

16.1. When receiving confidential information, the receiving Party must ensure that all
employees, students or agents to whom the confidential information is disclosed are bound
to keep the confidential information confidential and not to use the confidential information

except for the JDP.

16.2. The obligations of confidentiality in this clause 16 do not apply to information which may
be required to be disclosed by law, is in the public domain other than by breach of this
Agreement or has been independently developed or obtained by the receiving Party.

16.3. Each Party agrees that personal information about JDP Scholars will be collected,
managed, held, used, disclosed and transferred in accordance with the relevant privacy laws
and policies applicable to that Party.

17. AMENDMENTS

This Agreement may be amended and supplemented in writing at any time by the

mutual consent of the Parties in writing.

18, TERM OF AGREEMENT

18.1. This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall remain in force for a
period of five (5) years. Thereafter, it shall renew itself automatically for successive periods
of five (5) years unless either Party gives the other Party not less than six (6) months’ notice
in writing of its desire to terminate this Agreement, at any time during the initial or the
relevant extended period.

 


--- Page 16 ---
 

18.2. Both Parties agree that in the event this Agreement is terminated for any reason, the
Parties shall use their best endeavors to allow all JOP Scholars already enrolled in the JDP
who are eligible to complete their candidature, to continue and complete the requirements
for the JDP in which they are enrolled, and to be awarded the joint degree upon successful
completion of the JDP. If it is not possible for a JDP Scholar to satisfy the requirements of and
complete the JDP, the Parties shall endeavor to allow that JDP Scholar, at their election, to
complete the requirements for a single PhD degree at the Home Institution subject to the
requirements of the relevant Institution. The Parties agree that such a JDP Scholar shall be
given credit for all relevant units previously undertaken by the JDP Scholar at the other
institution as part of the JDP in accordance with the policies and protocols of the Institution
where the JDP Scholar will complete the requirements of their PhD.

18.3. If the Agreement is terminated and if the JDP Scholar continues their candidature either
on a Joint degree basis or as a single PhD degree at one or other of the institutions, the
Parties agree that the JDP Scholar shall continue to have access to the background
intellectual property as described in clause 14.1 and confidential information to the extent
necessary for the student to complete the JDP or a PhD at either Institution.

19. DISPUTE RESOLUTION

Any dispute arising under or in connection with this Agreement which cannot be
resolved by amicable discussions between the Parties shall be referred to the Director

of the respective Parties or their nominees for resolution.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties here to have caused this Agreement to be duly
executed on the day and year first above mentioned.

ee

Annexure A: A1-Project Agreement-NIT Agartala
A2- Project Agreement-lIT Jammu
Annexure B: Degree certificate format from both the Parties for JDP


--- Page 17 ---
 

 

C ey
in ~Y? vf ie = eC
1 a of qa to
Director, NIT AGARTALA

    

Dr. :
hairm
professor 6 gartale-


--- Page 18 ---
 

srredte sitentfarst

   

 

 

areas aay

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF

TECHNOLOGY JAMMU

forest adore vor,
Annexure A-1
Research Proposal agreement
Between Joint Supervisors

This agreement is made on (the date) at !
(name of the Institute) between: Ven %8f

National Institute of Technology Agartala, Paschim Barjalai, (T ripura) herein after

mentioned as ‘Home Institute’ through

Dr. Designation
Department/School of NIT Agartala.

 

And

Indian Institute of Technology Jammu, Jammu (J&K) herein after mentioned as ‘Host
Institute’ through Dr. Designation
Department/School of IIT Jammu.

 

We, the above named joint supervisors have agreed as follows:

(1) The Home Institute has finalised a ‘Research Proposal Title’ in consensus with the Host
Institute as
Thi
s title will remain final for the admission of student for PhD under joint supervision.

(2) The title may have some necessary modifications at a later stage which will be done
with mutual consent of both joint supervisors to be approved by Dean (Academics) of
the Home Institute.

(3) Supervisor at the Home Institute will provide/release advertisement for the admission
using template under joint supervision category and will complete all the admission
related requirements.

(4) Intellectual property rights of the research proposal title shall be governed and retained
as mentioned in the JDP agreement and as per applicable rules of the Home Institute.

(5) Scholarship and other financial assistance if any, shall be extended by the Home
Institute.

(6) Provisioning of suitable infrastructural requirements (Class/Lab/Library etc.) during stay
at Home/Host Institute shall be taken care at par with other students as per prevailing
norms of the Institute.


--- Page 19 ---
 

(7) In case | leave the Institute permanently (due to resignation etc.) or for a longer duration
(more than two semesters) for any reason whatsoever, | will ensure that suitable
replacement is arranged with the approval of competent authority of my Institute. To the
maximum possible extent, | will also act as joint supervisor to accomplish the academic
requirements of the students till completion of the enrolled programme.

(8) This undertaking will remain valid till completion of the programme.

(9) In any extreme situation, if the joint supervision cannot be continued, the Home
Institute will be responsible for completion of the programme.

(10) | undertake to abide by all other terms and condition of the JDP agreement between
both the Institutes for study under joint supervision.

(11) In the event of any dispute of differences arising between the supervisors, decision of
the Chairman Senate of the Home Institute will be treated as final.

Signature of the Supervisor

Home Institute

Date:

Countersigned by:

School Chair/Department Head
Home Institute

Date:

Dean (Academic)
Home Institute

Date:

Signature of the Supervisor

Host Institute

Date:

School Chair/Department Head
Host Institute

Date:

Dean (Academic)
Host Institute

Date:

(One copy each to be retained at Home and the Host Institute)

 


--- Page 20 ---
areata teatfarst
Fest FBT

INDIAN INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY JAMMU

 

ftrea atea ony

 

Annexure A-2

Research Proposal agreement
Between Joint Supervisors

This agreement is made on (the date) at
(name of the Institute) between:

Indian Institute of Technology Jammu, Jammu (J&K) herein after mentioned as ‘Home
Institute’ through Dr. Designation
Department/School of IIT Jammu.

 

And

National Institute of Technology Agartala, Paschim Barjalai, (Tripura) herein after
mentioned as ‘Host Institute’ through
Dr. Designation

 

Department/School of NIT Agartala.
We, the above named joint supervisors have agreed as follows:

(1) The Home Institute has finalised a ‘Research Proposal Title’ in consensus with the Host
Institute as

 

Thi
S title will remain final for the admission of student for PhD under joint supervision.

(2) The title may have some necessary modifications at a later stage which will be done
with mutual consent of both joint supervisors to be approved by Dean (Academics) of
the Home Institute.

(3) Supervisor at the Home Institute will provide/release advertisement for the admission
using template under joint supervision category and will complete all the admission
related requirements.

(4) Intellectual property rights of the research proposal title shall be governed and retained
as mentioned in the JDP agreement and as per applicable rules of the Home Institute.

(5) Scholarship and other financial assistance if any, shall be extended by the Home
Institute.

(6) Provisioning of suitable infrastructural requirements (Class/Lab/Library etc.) during stay
at Home/Host Institute shall be taken care at par with other students as per prevailing
norms of the Institute.


--- Page 21 ---
(7) In case | leave the Institute permanently (due to resignation etc.) or for a longer duration
(more than two semesters) for any reason whatsoever, | will ensure that suitable
replacement is arranged with the approval of competent authority of my Institute. To the
maximum possible extent, | will also act as joint supervisor to accomplish the academic
requirements of the students till completion of the enrolled programme.

(8) This undertaking will remain valid till completion of the programme.

(9) In any extreme situation, if the joint supervision cannot be continued, the Home
Institute will be responsible for completion of the programme.

(10) | undertake to abide by all other terms and condition of the JDP agreement between
both the Institutes for study under joint supervision.

(11) In the event of any dispute of differences arising between the supervisors, decision of
the Chairman Senate of the Home Institute will be treated as final.

Signature of the Supervisor

Home Institute

Date:

Countersigned by:

School Chair/Department Head
Home Institute

Date:

Dean (Academic)
Home Institute

Date:

Signature of the Supervisor

Host Institute

Date:

School Chair/Department Head
Host Institute

Date:

Dean (Academic)
Host Institute

Date:

e (One copy each to be retained at Home and the Host Institute)
