
--- Page 1 ---
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MoU)

BETWEEN

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA

SHRM BIOTECHNOLOGIES PRIVATE LIMITED

FOR

COLLABORATION ON RESEARCH, TRAINING,
CONSULTANCY AND INCUBATION


--- Page 2 ---
 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

This Memorandum of Understanding (hereinafter called as the "MOU" is entered into on this
er ee th ___dayof _Skbtem bey 2022, by and between

Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology (NIT), Agariala,
Jirania, West Tripura, Tripura 799046, represented herein by
the

i

 

hereinafter referred as ‘First Party’, the institution which expression, unless excluded by or
repugnant to the subject or context shall include its successors — in-office, administrators and
assigns,

AND

SHRM Biotechnologies Private Limited, Humaipur, PO: Abdalpur (Poddar house),
Madhyamgram, Kolkata — 700 155, and represented herein by its Director, Mr. Kunal Vora,
(hereinafter referred to as “Second Party”, company which expression, unless excluded by or
repugnant to the subject or context shall include its successors — in-office, administrators
andassigns).

(First Party and Second Party are hereinafter jointly referred to as ‘Parties’ and individually as

“Party") as
WHEREAS:

A} Department of Chemical Engineering, the First Party,is an academic and research
unitv‘department in NIT Agartala, which is a Centrally funded autonomous higher
education Institute and an Institute of National Importance under NIT Act of
Parliament No. 29, 2007, Government of India. The Department of Chemical
Engineering is offering Bachelor, Master and Doctoral level Education program int
Chemical Engineering and undertakes, testing, consultancy, sponsored research and

development and training activities,

B) SHRM Biotechnologies Pvt. Ltd, the Second Party is engaged in Business on Research,
Lab based Trainings & Skill Development, Manufacturing, Consultancy, Publications,
and other educational Services. SHRM Biotechnologies Pyt. Ltd, the Second Party is
promoted by brand name SHRM Biotech.

Cc) The Parties agree to enter into a bilateral agreement and considering it expedient and in

their mutual interest to collaborate with each other as slrategic partner to promote


--- Page 3 ---
D)

knowledge and excellence in Engineeringthrough research, training, consultancy,

incubation, and work association.

This MOU sets out the general terms and conditions on and subject to which the both
parties are willing to abide subject to the agreement and signing by the Parties of the

Definitive Documents (as defined below).

* NOW THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS
SET FORTH IN THIS MOU, THE PARTIES HERE TO AGREE AS FOLLOWS:

wv"


--- Page 4 ---
1.1

1.2

1.3

zZ.1

2.2

i

CLAUSE I
PURPOSE

Both Parties are united by common interests and objectives, and they shall establish
channels of communication and co-operation that will promote and advance their
respective operations. The Parties shall keep each other informed of potential
opportunities and shall share all information that may be relevant to secure additional

Opportunities for oneanother,

First Party and Second Party co-operation will facilitate effective utilization of the
intellectual capabilities of the First Parly providing significant inputs to the Second
Party in developing suitable leaching / training systems, keeping in mind the needs of

the industry.

The Parties shall cooperate with each other and agree to negotiate in a timely manner
all relevant agreements, deeds and documents (the ‘Definitive Documents’) as may be
required to give effect to the actions contemplated in terms of this MOU. The term of
Definitive Documents shall be mutually decided between the Parties, Along with the
Definitive Documents, this MOU shall represent the entire understanding as to the
subject matter hereof and shall supersede any prior understanding between the Parties
on the subject matter hereof.

CLAUSE 2

OBJECTIVES& SCOPE of MoU
SHRM Biotech and Department of Chemical Engineering NITAgartalawill work together
forcommercialization of technologies available with the Department of Chemical
Engineering NITAgartala on mutually agreed terms and condition for which separate

MOU can be framed on case to case basis,

SHRM Biotechagrees to work with Department of Chemical Engineering NITAgartala to
provide the platform of industrial interface which ean subsequently exfoliate to the launch

of an incubation facility at Chemical Engineering NITAgartala.

SHRM Biotechand the Chemical Engineering NITAgartalaand can plan seminar! lectures/

workshops! webinars for the young and potential Incubatees and entrepreneurs.


--- Page 5 ---
2.4

2.3

2.6

2.8

2.9

Department of Chemical Engineering NITAgartalaagrees to collaborate with SHRM
Biotech as the Knowledge Partner in the implementation of project proposal and business
proposal in the state of Tripura as well as the other states of eastern and north-eastern
states of India on mutually agreed terms and condition for which separate MOU can be

framed on case to case basis.

SHRM Biotech would provide prospective M.Tech and PhD candidates to the Department
of Chemical Engineering NITAgartala on self-finance mode.In prospective cases, joint
supervision of the students would beconsidered depending upon the available expertise
with SHRM Biotech and mutual consent on mutually agreed and documented terms and
conditions.For the purpose of the academic program or any other program undergone
jointly under the purview of the MoU, SHRM Biotech may use the name of the
Department of Chemical Engineering NIT Agartala on their website and other marketing
tools with prior approval on a case to case basis on mutually agreed terms and condition

and vice versa.

SHRM Biotechand the Department of Chemical Engineering NIT Agartala agrees in
conducting Skill Development activities, Guest lecturers / seminars and webinars jointly,

use each other infrastructural support,

SHRM Biotechand the Department of Chemical Engineering NIT Agartala agrees in the
sharing the Instrumentational facility on cost basis, on mutually agreed and documented

terms and conditionswhich can be decided over case to case.

SHRM Biotech andthe Department of Chemical Engineering NIT Agartala agrees to
collaborate towards developing R&D project proposals for consideration at various
funding agencies like DST / DBT’ SERB/ AICTE’ DAE’ BRNS etc. and would jointly
execute the approved projects successfully on mutually agreed terms and condition for

which separate MOU can be framed on case to case basis.

Department of Chemical Engineering NIT Agartala may permit the learners of the SHRM
Biotech to visit the various facilities of the Department of Chemical Engineering NIT
Agartala and may provide hands-on training to the learners on costs basis on mutually

agreed terms and condition for which separate MOU can be framed on case to case basis.


--- Page 6 ---
2.10 Department of Chemical Engineering NIT Agartalaagrees to partner with SHRM Biotech
to deliver trainings and lecturers at other places on approvalon costs basis on mutually

agreed terms and condition for which separate MOU can be framed on case to case basis.

CLAUSE 3
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

By entering into this MoU the Parties undertake:
orl. To protect each other’s intellectual property and intellectual property rights

3.2 Not to use each other's intellectual property without the prior written consent of the other

3.3 Ensure the confidentiality of such intellectual Property as provided in the Section on
Confidentiality

3.4 Not to use each other’s intellectual property should this MoU be dissolved or terminated at
any time,

3.5 To render itself liable, in case of infringement, to all such damages, penalties, action as

available to other party under the law.

The Parties agree that neither of them shall gain by virtue of this MOU any right of ownership or
any other interest, right or title of copyright, patents, trade secrets, trademarks, or any other
intellectual property rights by other party, and nothing herein shall mean nor shall be construed to
mean that they are at any time assigned, licensed, or otherwise alienated to the other party, nor
other party shall be entitled to claim any right, title or interest therein at any time. All inventions,
innovations, or ideas developed in the course of providing services to a client shall belong to party
who developed them during the project/assignment. If the parties undertake any joint development
in the course of providing services to a client under this MoU, any such joint development will be

governed by separate agreement to be negotiated in good faith by the parties.

CLAUSE 4
CONFIDENTIALITY
4.1 Both Parties, SHRM Biotech and NIT Agartala acknowledge that certain confidential
information may be disclosed by one party to the other party. The Party that owns
and/or discloses the confidential information is hereatier referred to as the “disclosing
party” and the Party receiving or accessing such confidential information is referred
to as the receiving party during the tenure of this MoU or performance of the
respective obligations under the resultant definitive agreement hereunder.
Confidential Information means all information identified as confidential, including

but not limited to information conceming intellectual property rights, copyrights,

gr’

 


--- Page 7 ---
ideas, data, trade secrets, know-how, formulae, processes, inventions, network
configurations, system architecture, designs, flowcharts, drawing, proprietary
information, and any other confidential or proprietary information the disclosure of
which might harm or destroy a competitive advantage of the disclosing party.

4.2. The receiving party shall not directly or indirectly disclose to any third party other
than its employees, affiliates and authorized representatives any information
concerning the disclosing parties intellectual or copyright information without prior
written permission of the disclosing party,

The obligations of receiving party shall not extend to any information which
(i) is or becomes a matter of public knowledge

(ii) isa lawful possession of the receiving party

(iii) is received from a third party who lawfully acquired with due permission
(iv) is disclosed by the disclosing party with prior written approval

(v) independently developed by the receiving party

(vi) disclosed by receiving party under legal process.

4.3 The parties acknowledge to limit the of or disclosure of confidential information
referred under this MoU to those individuals within their organization who legimately
need to know the information

4.4 The parties acknowledge to consider this MoU as a confidential information and
agrees to neither publicize or make public announcement concerning the terms or
nature of the relationship or this MoU without prior written consent of the other
party.

4.5 The parties acknowledge that any breach by them of their respective obligations under
this MoU may cause irreparable harm to the other party for which remedies at law
may be inadequate and that in the event of such breach either party shall be entitled to
seck equitable relief in addition to other remedies provided hereunder or available
with law.

4.6 Upon termination or dissolution of this MoU, or upon earlier demand thereof each
party shall at the other party’s option cither destroy or return all properties containing
the other party’s confidential information

4.7. The confidential obligations under this section shall survive during this term of this
MoU and three (3) years thereafter.

4.8 Each Party undertakes that it shall not at any time disclose to any person any

confidential information concerning the business, affairs, customers, clients or

ed hie |


--- Page 8 ---
 

suppliers of the other Party or of any member of the group of companies to which the
other Party belongs, except as permitted by clause mentioned in this section.

49 Each party may disclose the other Party's confidential information:

(a) to its employees, officers, representatives or advisers who need to know such
information for the purposes of the evaluation of the envisaged co-operation
and the negotiation of the Definitive Documents. Each Party shall ensure that
its employees, officers, representatives or advisersto whom it discloses ihe
other Party's confidential information comply with this clause 4: and

(b) as may be required by law, a court of competent jurisdiction or any
governmental or regulatory authority.

4.10 No Party shall use the other Party's confidential information for any purpose other
than the evaluation of the envisaged co-operation and the negotiation of the
Definitive Documents.

4.11 Each Party reserves all rights in its confidential information. The disclosure of
confidential information by one Party does not give the other Party or any other
person any licence or other right in respect of any cconfidentialinformation beyond
the rights expressly set out in this MOU or the Definitive Documents.

4.12 Except as expressly stated in this MOU or the Definitive Documents, neither Party
makes any express or implied warranty or representation concerning its confidential
information, including but not limited to the accuracy or completeness of the
confidential information.

CLAUSE §
VALIDITY

Sel The MoUshall be effective from the date of execution hereof and shall remain in force

_ for a period of three (3) years or until terminated by either parly as above or replaced by a

definitive agreement between the parties, whichever occur first, The parties mutually agree to
extend the period of this MoU,

CLAUSE 6
DISPUTE RESOLUTION

6.1 Any dispute(s) arising out or in connection with this MoUshall, as far as possible, be settled

amicably by mutual negotiations between the Parties hereto failing which the following shall
apply:

Cy


--- Page 9 ---
6.2 Any unsettled dispute or difference shall be referred to the arbitration of three arbitrators, of
which one be appointed by SHRM Biotech and other by NIT Agartala. The two arbitrator then
appoint a third arbitrator before entering upon the reference. The arbitration proceedings shall be
regulated by the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 and the venue shall be
in Agartala, Tripura, and the language shall be in English.

6.3 Arbitration may be commenced by any party hereto giving written notice to the other party
ofaunsettled dispute that such dispute has been referred to arbitration. Any award rendered by the
arbitrator shall be conclusive and binding upon the parties hereto.

6.4 This provision for arbitration shall be specifically enforceable by the parties and the decision of
the arbitrator in accordance with the governing laws of India shall be final and bindingupon the

parties hereto.

CLAUSE 7
JURISDICTION

7.1 The courts in Agartala, Tripurashall have exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute, differences or
claims arising out of this Agreement. If either Party employs attorneys to enforce any rights arising
out of or relating to this Agreement, the prevailing Party shall be entitled to recover reasonable costs

and attorneys' fees.

CLAUSE &
TERMINATION OF MoU

8.1 Either party shall upon written notice of sixty (60) days to the other, withdraw from or terminate
negotiations or terminate this MoUat any time without cause and no such withdrawalor termination
for whatever reason will be deemed to be in bad faith or otherwise give rise to any liability to cither
party provided the obligations assigned to with respect to the relevant definitive agreement under this
MoU are discharged without dispute. On termination or expiry of this MoU each party will return all
property belongings to other party and hereby undertakes not to use the said proprietary or
confidential information of the other pary in any manner whatsoever without seeking the prior written

consent of the other party.

8.2 Either party shall also be entitled to terminate this MoU for the cause in the event of:

(i) Breach by the other party of the terms and conditions of this MoU and its failure to remedy such
breach within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of a written notice in this regard from the
non-breaching party.

(ii) The filing by or against the other party in any court of competent jurisdiction of a petition in

ce


--- Page 10 ---
bankruptey or insolvency or for a scheme of rearrangement with creditors, for appointment of a
receiver or trustee or making assignment for the benefit of creditors and such petition is not
discharged within 60 days of its filing.

CLAUSE 9
AMENDMENT OF MaU

9.1 This MoU may be amended or supplemented only by written document that make specific
* reference to this MoU and which is signed by the party against which enforcement of any such

amendment or supplement is sought.
CLAUSE 10
WARRANTY

10,1 Each party warrants to other party that to the best of its knowledge all materials, data,
information, and other assistance provided by shall not infringe third party rights.


--- Page 11 ---
Aohiele
‘ ai
whi

IN WITNESS THEREOF, each party has caused its duly authorized representative to execute this
Mol as of the date stated above,

AGREED,
For For
Department of Chemical Engineering SHRM Biotechnologies Pvt Ltd.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala eh) BIO TECHI en a

 

chasholbe cher 5 cirmart NBA aging ©
——- A ai 9 22
Authorized Signatory Authorized Signatory
(Prof. Debashish Bhattacharyal/( Hi, Garey eerard |
Name: Registrar arerafera Name: Mr. Kunal Vora
NIT Agartalal 4 aig ef, arrecrerr
Designation:

Designation: Director

   
        
  

    

Name of Institution: NATIONAL
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

Name of Industry: SHRM Biotechnologies
Private Limited

  
   
 

 

Address: Address: Humaipur, PO: AbdalpurMadhyamgram

Kolkata — 700 155

    
  

Cantact Details: Contact Details:

     
    

E-mails: E-mails:

Web: weew.shrmbio.com

Witness (Name & Address} Witness (Name & Address)

Exata © pM EY as
(2. al ae 4 } q |
1 si with date |.Signature with date E hots ot

Name: Gy, (4: bhudo or. bf. Name:

oD eed
ete 1s bn ecor ing
wale. Tr shee. karo

5 \o\ ae

2. Signature with fie 2. Signature with date de (on (righ as DE.0F. 23.
Name: Por Ont rowda Ray. Name: T) 2. UPA kK K OY.

id cs =
Sy,” Sedona. Aloe
' Fiead of ine Locparnnean
>. Assista Professor
ep. of Chemical Rngincertitty

WT figertate, Tripura, Lode 9 Wa
