
--- Page 1 ---
TIS Weare Be SRA
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC

nitadeanacademic@gmail.com
No.NITA.5/(12-Acad)/M.Sc/Non-CCMN/2024-25/ 1. : Dated-. J3../09/2024

 

   

NOTIFICATION

Sub: Candidate provisionally selected for admission in M.Sc programme for 2024-25
academic session under Non -CCMN category against the vacant seat.

Based on the recommendation by the Academic Departments, following candidate is
selected provisionally for admission in M.Sc programme of NIT Agartala for 2024-25 academic
session against the vacant seats after admission through CCMN 2024.

Allotted Catego
PHYSICS

NAGTREA6PB PARAMITA DEBNATH OBC-NCL

NAGTDAK WCI ROHAN DAS
NAGTJWZBD8 SAHIL DAS FSCS

Instructions to candidate (for online provisional registration and admission):

 

 
    
     

Application ID

     

 

 
 
         

 

1. Visit the online portal of NIT Agartala https://mis.nita.ac.in/ and choose the option
Apply Online PG Admission on 14/09/2024 to 17/09/2024.

2. Register yourself using Application id and follow instructions.

3. Make payment of the admission fee of Rs.13,225/- for M.Sc in Physics through the online
link given in the portal.

4. Enter.and fill the required details in the portal. (Mandatory). For Qualified Exam and
Rank mentioned ‘Others’ and ‘0’.

5. Candidate must ensure that, submitted the application by clicking “Submit” in the portal.
In case of any technical difficulty, candidates must email immediately to
nitmisagt@gmail.com, with a copy to help.pgadmnnita@gmail.com.

6. After submission of all the information, an online provisional registration slip will be
generated. All are instructed to save the online provisional slip for future reference.
(Candidate must enable the pop-ups in their browser to download the online provisional
registration slip)

The details filled by the candidates will be verified online by the officials of NIT Agartala.

The provisional admission may be given, subject to submission of original documents on
physical reporting at NIT Agartala.

7. All are instructed to save the online provisional slip for future reference.
8. All the candidate must submit their original Migration and Conduct/ Character

certificate, from the last Institution attended, during physical reporting at the
Institute.

v ; Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website- www.nita.ac.in
Page 1
”

 


--- Page 2 ---
 

—

—

Ee

Wess MeN AIM SHAH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC
nitadeanacademic@gmail.com
9. Candidate must bring all original documents for verification.

10. Hard copies of all below mentioned documents in Table-1 (duly self-attested) must be
submitted at GF-9 of administrative building during physical reporting at the
Institute, on 18/09/2024.

Table-1

Proof of date of birth (mandatory) (X admit and marksheet)

Mark sheet(s) of XII/ Diploma (mandatory)
Photo id proof, as per guidelines of Gol (mandatory)

Mark sheets of all semesters of Qualifying Degree (scanned copy of Original). If final
)| result of qualifying degree is awaited, an undertaking must be submit as per
prescribed format at Annexure- A.(mandatory)

 

a)
)

)| Pass Certificate of Qualifying Degree, wherever applicable

f) | Migration Certificate issued by the Institution last attended, wherever applicable
Conduct/Character Certificate issued by the Institution last attended, wherever
applicable
Formal Colour photograph
: SC/ ST/PwD/OBC-NCL/ EWS certificate (if and whichever applicable). OBC-NCL/
EWS certificates must be issued on or after 01/04/2024.
Certificate for final year appearing candidates from the Institute signed and sealed by
.. | Principal/HoD/Registrar/Director (wherever applicable). All such candidate must
i) fulfill the minimum eligibility as per notice vide NITA.5/(60-Acad)/Non-
CCMN/2024-25/A-1699 dated 04/07/2024 by 30" September, 2024.

) Undertaking as per prescribed format at Annexure- B. (For all candidates)
¢mandatory)

 

 

Undertaking regarding Non-receipt of scholarship at Annexure-C.

Fo

 

r candidates wh result of qualifying degree is awaited

If, results are awaited, must fill up the undertaking form in prescribed format as given in
Annexure- A for submitting the certificates (Mark Sheet/Grade Card, Degree/Provisional
Degree Certificate, Transfer Certificate, Conduct Certificate and Migration certificate, etc)
latest by 30th September, 2024. If such candidates fail to fulfill the minimum and special
eligibility criteria, their provisional admission may be cancelled.

Followin ints to be noted by the candidates:

i.

The different heads of fees (including tuition fee) may be changed after Ist semester by the
Competent Authority. In such case, students are required to pay the modified fees.

For all hostel related matters, candidates may contact the Office of the Chief Warden, NIT
Agartala. Contact details are available in the Institute Website.

"tee eee EE SEES EO EL A TS TT I EOE,

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website- www.nita.ac.in


--- Page 3 ---
TS WealPiral FIM Std
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC

 

a nitadeanacademic@gmail.com

Refund Rule

If an admitted student cancels admission/withdraws/leaves the Institute without completing the
entire programme, all fees paid will be forfeited by the Institute, and student will be eligible for
academic caution money refund only on filling up of the No-dues cum Cancellation Certificate.
This clause is applicable even before formal registration to the 1 semester and starting of
classes.

** Candidate advised to visit Institute website regularly for any updates.

** Online Registration: 14/09/2024 to 17/09/2024

Physical Reporting: 18/09/2024

This is issued with the approval of the Competent Authority. io
Sli,

(Prof. Rajib Saha)
Dean (Academic)

Copy to

1. PS to the Director, NITA, for kind information of the Director.

The Dean (SW-I and SW-ID), NIT Agartala, for kind information.

Registrar, NIT, Agartala for kind information

HoD PH, CY, MA, for kind information.

FIC MIS for kind information and necessary action.

Chief Warden for kind information and necessary action.

DR (F & A) for kind information.

System administrator with a request to upload the same in the Institute website.
Guard file. ;

oe NAA PWD

vy Ng .

Dean (Academic)

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website- www.nita.ac.in


--- Page 4 ---
ANNEXURE- A

Undertaking for Appearing Candidate

I, Mr./ Ms. , Son/ Daughter of
Resident of with Application no. , do hereby undertake as under:

(Name of the

Institute/ University) and have completed the final examination and all other requirements to be eligible for

 

 

 

I am a bonafide student of

 

the award of the degree of in the Department of

 

and my result has not been published yet. I will produce all the marksheets and certificates of qualifying
degree fulfilling the minimum eligibility criteria and special eligibility criterion, along with
TC/Conduct/Migration etc, on_or_ before 30" September, 2024, failing which my admission in the
programme at NIT Agartala will stand cancelled and NIT Agartala will not be liable for the same and all fees
paid will be forfeited. I will not appeal to the Institute authority for further extension of date for submission of

my result. In any case, the decision taken by authority of NIT Agartala will be final.

Signature of the candidate with date:
Name of the candidate:

Name and Signature of Parent with date:


--- Page 5 ---
of

ANNEXURE- B

Undertaking (for all candidates)

I, Mr./ Ms. , Son/ Daughter of Resident

with application no , do hereby undertake as under:

I will not have any objection if my provisional registration and admission in M.Tech/ M.Sc. programme is
cancelled in event of my failure to submit all required document(s) within date as notified by NIT
Agartala.

I further declare that at any point of time, if any of my uploaded/ submitted document(s) as well as
information given by me is/ are found to be false/ untrue, then my provisional registration and admission

at NIT Agartala will stand cancelled, and decision taken by NIT Agartala will be final.

Signature of the candidate with date
Name of the candidate:

Name and Signature of Parent with date:


--- Page 6 ---
Annexure-C

UNDERTAKING

| do hereby undertake that | will not claim any scholarship/fellowship
during the whole period of M.Sc programme from academic session
2024-25.

Date:

(Full Signature of the candidate)
