
--- Page 1 ---
POST GRADUATE SYLLABUS
FOR
VLSI DESIGN
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
BARJALA, AGARTALA - 799046
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATION
ENGINEERING

--- Page 2 ---
FOREWORD
Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of NIT Agartala awards the degree of
Master of Technology (M. Tech) in two different specializations, i.e., i)VLSI Design and
ii)Communication Systems & Signal Processing.
The course structures of all post graduate degree programmes are carrying a total of 80 credits
and 2000 marks. Semester wise distribution of course and credits are as follows. First semester
25 credits and 800 marks for five theory subjects, two laboratory subjects and seminar, second
semester 25 credits and 800 marks for four theory subjects, two laboratory subjects,
comprehensive viva-voce and project preliminaries; Third Semester 10 credits and 100 marks,
fourth semester 20 credits and 300 marks. Third and fourth semester of PG courses will be fully
devoted to project works. Minimum requirement of number of class hours for each theory
course is 40 hours per semester.
There will be continuous assessment of the performance of students throughout the semester.
Each theory subject in a semester is evaluated for 100 marks, with the following weightage
sub-component weightage. Continuous evaluation 30 marks (Attendance: 5 marks, Quiz: 5
marks, Class test: 10 marks, Assignment: 10 marks); Mid-Semester Examination 20 marks;
and End-Semester Examination 50 marks.
The course curriculum of all post-graduate programmes are designed considering the
Programme Outcomes as formulated by National Board of Accreditation (NBA)
Expert opinions are being taken on a regular basis in order to improve the quality of teaching
learning process and to attain the programme outcomes efficiently.
In the final year of M. Tech Programmes (third and fourth semesters) students may also opt
industrial research. If any student desire to pursue his/her research in reputed industries, he/she
may be allowed to do so, provided:
a. The selected industry is a permanent member of NASSCOM, FICCI and other such
industry bodied.
b. The selected industry needs is approved by the DPPC of the concerned department.
c. The student selects one supervisor from industry and another supervisor form the Institute.
d. If any students opt for such industrial research he/she will not receive any scholarship from
the institute in this tenure, even if he/she wants to return back. In such cases the student
will be allowed to complete his/her project in the institute but without any scholarship.
ii

--- Page 3 ---
Vision and Mission of ECE Department
Vision
Department is committed to impart high level of Teaching, Conducting up to date research along with
technical skill so that the department can excel in the fields of teaching and research at national and
international level and to cope with the latest demand of industry, academia and research in Electronics
& Communication Engineering.
Mission
I. To provide high quality undergraduate and graduate education in the field of Electronics and
Communication Engineering.
II. To promote research and development.
III. To collect the knowledge and expertise and to cater the people and to work for the development of the
society at large.
IV. To develop and promote a smooth and friendly academic industry relationship.
V. To make the department more conductive for professional and personal development so as to
attract good professionals and academicians from all over the country and abroad.
iii

--- Page 4 ---
Program Outcomes (POs)
PO1: Ability to independently carry out research/investigation and development to solve
practical problems.
PO2: Ability to write and present substantial technical report/document
PO3: Students should be able to demonstrate a degree of mastery over the area as per the
specialization of the program. The mastery should be at a level higher than the requirements in
the appropriate bachelor program.
PO4: Ability to identify, formulate, and solve VLSI Design and Nano Technology related
problems using advanced level computing techniques.
PO5: Ability to understand the impact of VLSI Design and Nano Technology solutions in a
global, economic, environmental and societal context.
PO6: Ability to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management
principles and apply these to multidisciplinary environment.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
1. To develop a sound knowledge in the field related to VLSI Design and Nanotechnology to
serve as a competent engineer.
2. To develop a sound knowledge in theory and practical related to VLSI Design and
Nanotechnology to prove the ability to work in any interdisciplinary areas.
3. To acquire the proper skill and techniques to apply in the industrial fields.
4. To be acquainted with the latest technology so as to be placed in the best industries in the
country and abroad.
5. To acquire a strong sound knowledge in the mathematical theory and related computation
using recent software.
Program Specific Objectives (PSOs)
1. To create powerful competent engineers acceptable to any relevant industry all over the
world.
2. To acquire sound knowledge in more than one sub-areas of VLSI Design and
Nanotechnology to pursue research.
iv

--- Page 5 ---
Course structure for M.Tech.in VLSI Design
Semester-1
Sl. no. Subject L T P Hours/week credit
1. Digital VLSI Circuits 3 1 0 4 4
2. Analog VLSI Circuits 3 1 0 4 4
3. Semiconductor Device 3 1 0 4 4
Modeling
4. Elective – I 3 1 0 4 4
5. Elective – II 3 1 0 4 4
6. Laboratory-I 0 0 3 3 2
7. Laboratory-II 0 0 3 3 2
8. Seminar 0 0 2 2 1
Total 28 25
Semester-2
Sl. no. Subject L T P Hours/week credit
1. VLSI Fabrication 3 1 0 4 4
Technology
2. CAD of VLSI System 3 1 0 4 4
3. Low Power VLSI Design 3 1 0 4 4
4. Elective – III 3 1 0 4 4
5. Laboratory-III 0 0 3 3 2
6. Laboratory-IV 0 0 3 3 2
7. Project Preliminary 0 0 3 6 3
8. Comprehensive Viva- - - - - 2
voce
Total 28 25
Semester-3
Sl. no. Subject L T P Hours/week credit
1. Project & Thesis-I - - - - 10
Semester-4
Sl. no. Subject L T P Hours/week credit
1 Project & Thesis-II - - - - 20
Total Credit (Semester-1 to Semester-4) 80
LABORATORIES
Laboratories Name of the laboratory
Laboratory-I Microelectronics Lab
Laboratory-II FPGA Design and Simulation Lab (using Xilinx VIVADO and other CAD
tools)
Laboratory-III ASIC Design and Simulation Lab (Cadence and other CAD tools)
Laboratory-IV Signal Processing and Embedded Systems Lab
1

--- Page 6 ---
LIST OF ELECTIVES
Sl.No. Name of the subject
1 VLSI Testing and Testability
2 Embedded Systems and IOT
3 VLSI Signal Processing
4 Optoelectronics Device and Circuits
5 Semiconductor Memories
6 VLSI interconnects
7 Laser Science and Technology
8 VLSI Based Chip design for Signal and Image Processing
9 Technology CAD
10 Nanoelectronics Devices
11 Synthesis and characterization of Nanomaterials
12 An Introduction to Electronic Systems Packaging
13 Advanced Computer Architecture and Processor Design
14 Hardware Security
15 MEMS and Microsystems
16 Logic Synthesis and Verification
17 Mixed Mode VLSI Circuit Design
18 Metaheuristic Algorithms and their applications
2

--- Page 7 ---
SEMESTER-1
DIGITAL VLSI CIRCUITS L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To introduce the students to the design principles of Digital VLSI Circuits.
 To enable the students to solve theoretical and practical problems related to Digital VLSI Circuits.
 To enable the students to efficiently analyze and design circuits for Digital VLSI Domain.
 To equip the students with domain specific industry standard CAD tools.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction to VLSI Design, Levels of abstraction and the complexity of design, Challenges of VLSI
design: power, timing, area, noise, testability, reliability and yield; CAD tools: simulation, layout,
synthesis and test.
Module-2
MOS modeling, MOS device models, Short‐channel effects and velocity saturation, Scaling of MOS
circuits; The CMOS inverter, VTC, Switching behavior, Noise margins and power dissipation; Static
and dynamic CMOS combinational logic gate, Transistor sizing in static CMOS, logical effort , Pass-
transistor logic, sizing issues , Domino logic gates , estimating load capacitance , Simple delay models
(RC) for CMOS gates , Power consumption;
Module-3
Layout design, Design rules, Stick diagrams; Standard‐cell layout, Chip layout and floor planning,
Array layout; Data path units, Adders, Shifters, Multipliers; Control logic strategies, PLAs , Multi-
level logic, Synthesis and place and route; Latches and clocking, Flip-flops, Set-up and hold tests, Static
and dynamic latch and flip-flop, clock distribution, clock synthesis and synchronization using PLLs.
Module-4
MOS memories, Register, SRAM , DRAM; Global interconnect modeling, Capacitance, resistance and
inductance of interconnect; Signal and power-supply integrity issues, Electromigration, RC
interconnect modeling Driving large capacitive load, reducing RC delays; Verilog HDL.
COURSE OUTCOME:
After taking this course
CO1: Students gain the knowledge about MOSFET / CMOS operation and CMOS process flow.
CO2: Students gain the knowledge of transistor sizing, logical effort and combinational logic.
CO3: Students learn the design concepts with sequential logic
CO4: Students learn the issues related with the static timing analysis and clock distribution.
CO5: Students become aware of concepts of memory design and interconnect delay.
CO6: Students gain the knowledge about Layout design.
3

--- Page 8 ---
CO7: Students learn to realize Digital VLSI circuits using Verilog HDL in FPGA and ASIC based EDA
tools.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. J. M. Rabaey, A. Chandrakasan and B. Nikolic, Digital Integrated Circuits: A Design Perspective,
Second Edition, Pearson/PH, 2003.
2. J. P. Uyemura, Introduction to VLSI Circuits and Systems, Wiley, 2001.
3. W.Wolf, Modern VLSI Design: Systems on Chip Design, Third Edition, Pearson/PH, 2002.
4. R. L. Geiger, P. E. Allen and N. R. Strader, VLSI Design Techniques for Analog and Digital
Circuits, McGraw-Hill, 1990.
4

--- Page 9 ---
ANALOG VLSI CIRCUITS L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To introduce the students to the design principles and performance measures of analog
COMS integrated circuits.
 To enable the students to solve theoretical and practical problems related to analog CMOS
integrated circuits.
 To enable the students to efficiently analyze and design circuits for analog CMOS IC
domain.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1:
Introduction to Analog VLSI Circuits Design, Design Flow of Analog VLSI Circuits. Basic MOS
Device Physics – General Considerations, MOS I/V Characteristics, Second Order effects, MOS Device
models. Short Channel Effects and Device Models. Single Stage Amplifiers – Basic Concepts, Common
Source Stage, Source Follower, Common Gate Stage, Cascode Stage.
Module 2:
Differential Amplifiers – Single Ended and Differential Operation, Basic Differential Pair, Common
Mode Response, Differential Pair with MOS loads, Gilbert Cell. Passive and Active Current Mirrors –
Basic Current Mirrors, Cascode Current Mirrors, Active Current Mirrors.
Module 3:
Frequency Response of Amplifiers – General Considerations, Common Source Stage, Source
Followers, Common Gate Stage, Cascode Stage, Differential Pair. Noise – Types of Noise,
Representation of Noise in circuits, Noise in single stage amplifiers, Noise in Differential Pairs.
Module 4:
Feedback Amplifiers – General Considerations, Feedback Topologies, Effect of Loading. Operational
Amplifiers – General Considerations, One Stage Op Amps, Two Stage Op Amps, Gain Boosting,
Common – Mode Feedback, Input Range limitations, Slew Rate, Power Supply Rejection, Noise in Op
Amps. Stability and Frequency Compensation.
Module 5:
Band gap references, Constant–Gm biasing; Introduction to switched capacitor circuits, switched
capacitor amplifiers, noise analysis, Distortion, current and voltage references, Oscillators and PLL.
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Students get the insight of the importance of Analog IC design and also the VLSI analog process
flow.
CO2: Students gain the knowledge about MOS device physics and MOS models.
CO3: Students achieve the capability to analyze and design current mirrors, voltage and current
reference circuits.
5

--- Page 10 ---
CO4: Students learn the design principles of different kinds of amplifiers like the single stage MOS
amplifiers, MOS differential amplifier, CMOS OPAMP and switched capacitor amplifiers.
CO5: Students gain the concept of designing band gap reference circuits providing constant dc voltage
and immune to temperature variations, noise, supply voltage fluctuations.
CO6: Students learn to design circuits like the oscillators and PLL.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. Behzad Razavi, Design of Analog CMOS Integrated Circuits McGraw-Hill International Edition
2016.
2. Sedra and Smith, Microelectronics Circuits, Oxford University Press, 2004
3. P.R.Gray, P.J.Hurst, S.H.Lewis and R.G.Meye; Analysis and Design of Analog Integrated Circuits,
John Wiley & Sons, Fourth Edition, 2003.
4. D.A. Johns and K. Martin; Analog Integrated Circuit Design; John Wiley and Sons, 2004.
5. P.E. Allen and D.R.Holberg; CMOS Analog Circuit Design; Oxford University Press, 2004.
6. M. Ismail and Terri Fiez; Analog VLSI; McGraw Hill, 1994.
6

--- Page 11 ---
SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE MODELING L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 The course will provide adequate understanding of the physics behind the semiconductor
device modeling.
 To make students familiar with different types and procedure of semiconductor device
modeling.
 To discuss relevant semiconductor device theories require to learn semiconductor device
modeling.
 Analytical and Numerical modeling of few most common semiconductor device structures.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Review of semiconductor physics: Quantum foundation, Carrier scattering, Carrier transport
phenomena, non-equilibrium excess carriers in semiconductors, high field effects; P-N junction diode
modeling: Static model, Large signal model and SPICE models.
Module-2
BJT modeling: Ebers–Moll, Static, large-signal, small- signal models. Gummel - Poon model.
Temperature and area effects. Power BJT model, SPICE models.
Advanced Bipolar models: VBIC, HICUM and MEXTARM; Models for metal-semiconductor contacts
and heterojunctions. MOS Structure, MOSFET – quantum theory of 2DEG.
Module-3
MIS Junction/capacitor: Ideal C-V characteristics and deviations due to interface states/charges and
work function differences, threshold voltage.
MOS Transistors: LEVEL 1, LEVEL 2,LEVEL 3, BSIM, HISIMVEKV Models,Threshold voltage
modeling. Punch through. Carrier velocity modeling. Short channel effects. Channel length modulation.
Barrier lowering, Hot carrier effects. Mobility modeling, Model parameters.
Module-4
Analytical and Numerical modeling of BJT and MOS structures: Introduction to various simulation
techniques, Noise modeling; Modeling of heterostructure devices. MESFET -Shockley, velocity
saturation and universal models. HEFT - Basic and universal models.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Solid State Electronics Device, Ben G. Streetman, Sanjay Banerjee, Pearson Prentice Hall, 2009.
2. Semiconductor physics and devices, Donald A. Neamen,McGraw-Hill
3. MOSFET Modeling and & BSIM3 User’s Guide, Y. Chang and C.Hu (Available in internet),
Kluwer Academic Publisher.
4. Semiconductor Device Modeling with SPICE G. Massobrio and P. Antognetti, McGraw-Hill,
1998.
5. Operation and Modeling of the MOS Transistor, Y. P. Tsividis, McGraw-Hill.
6. Semiconductor Devices Physics and Technology, Author: Sze, S.M.; Notes: Wiley
7

--- Page 12 ---
COURSE OUTCOME:
After successful completion of the course the students will be able to:
CO1: Explain the equations, approximations and techniques available for deriving a model with specified
properties, for a general device characteristic with known qualitative theory.
CO2: Apply suitable approximations and techniques to derive the model referred to above starting from
drift-diffusion transport equations.
CO3: Offer clues to qualitative understanding of the physics of a new device and conversion of this
understanding into equations.
CO4: Simulate characteristics of a simple device using SPICE.
8

--- Page 13 ---
SEMESTER-2
VLSI FABRICATION TECHNOLOGY L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
This course intends to impart the following knowledge to the students
 Process flow in VLSI chip fabrication technology.
 Silicon crystal growth and wafer preparation techniques.
 Silicon Oxidation, doping via diffusion and Ion implantation, photolithography and etching.
 Epitaxial, metallic and dielectric thin film deposition techniques.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module – 1
Introduction to the basic steps of BJT and MOSFET based IC Fabrication technologies; Clean room
concept and requirements, wafer cleaning and gettering; Silicon Crystal structure, defects in crystals,
Crystal growth and wafer manufacturing techniques; Epitaxy: Vapor phase Epitaxy, auto-doping,
Molecular Beam Epitaxy.
Module – 2
Oxidation: Wet and Dry oxidation, Growth kinetics and models, defects, measurement methods and
characterization; Diffusion: Fick’s equation, atomic diffusion mechanism, measurement techniques,
Segregation, Interfacial dopant pileup, oxidation enhanced diffusion, dopant-defect interaction; Ion-
implantation: Basic concepts, High energy and ultralow energy implantation, shallow junction
formation &modeling, Electronic stopping, Damage production and annealing, RTA Process & dopant
activation.
Module-3
Photolithography: Light sources, Wafer exposure systems, Photoresists, Baking and development,
Mask making, Measurement of mask features and defects, resist patterns and etched features; Etching
Technologies: Wet etching, Plasma etching, RIE, Etching of materials used in VLSI.
Module–4
Thin film Deposition: Chemical and physical vapor deposition, deposition of dielectrics and metals
commonly used in VLSI; Device Isolation: Junction and oxide isolation, LOCOS & trench isolation;
Fabrication of Monolithic components: Resistor, Capacitor, NMOS, CMOS & BICMOS technology;
Prototype fabrication of a CMOS inverter; Assembling techniques and packaging of VLSI chip.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. 1.James Plummer, M. Deal and P.Griffin, Silicon VLSI Technology, Prentice Hall Electronics and
VLSI series, 2000.
2. SorabGhandhi, VLSI Fabrication Principles, John Wiley and Sons, 1983.
3. S.M.Sze, VLSI Technology, McGraw-Hill, 1983.
4. Stephen Campbell, The Science and Engineering of Microelectronics,Oxford University Press,
1996.
9

--- Page 14 ---
COURSE OUTCOME:
Upon completion of the course the student will familiarize with the
CO1: Different major steps of varied complexity involved in the process flow of fabrication of various
components in the VLSI chip
CO2: Detailed theoretical understanding and analysis of the each of the fabrication step
CO3: Identify the design limit in the material used for fabrication.
CO4: Knowledge of the thin film deposition techniques for epitaxial crystal, metals and dielectric films
used in the VLSI fabrication process.
10

--- Page 15 ---
CAD OF VLSI SYSTEM L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 Different VLSI design styles and flow will be introduced to the students.
 Students will be introduced to know the alternate way of reducing complexity and delay of a complex
circuit by logical effort
 Students will be able to know and develop their own algorithms to solve the problems related to
High Level Synthesis, VLSI physical design automation and testing.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Different types of VLSI design styles: Full custom, standard cell based, gate array based, programmable
logic, field programmable gate arrays etc. VLSI Design flow. High level design (scheduling, allocation
and binding), CAD tools for VLSI design.
Module-2
Logical effort, path effort, logical effort calculation for different gates and circuits, logical effort to
estimate minimum path delay, Logical effort of optimum transistor sizing.
Module-3
VLSI Design automation-partitioning (problem formulation, cost function, different partitioning
approach, Kernighan-Lin, Fiduccia-Mattheyses and simulated annealing heuristic for partition), Floor
planning (problem definition, cost function, modeling floor planning problem, approach to solve floor
planning), Placement (problem definition, cost function, approach to solve floor planning), Global
routing, Detailed Routing-Maze routing, Channel routing.
Module-4
Combinational & sequential logic synthesis issues and algorithms are discussed.Importance of VLSI
testing,Faultmodeling, Design for testability, Fault simulation, Test generation.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. R.H. Katz, “Contemporary logic design”, Addison-Wesley Pub. Co., 1993.
2. M.J.S. Smith, “Application-specific integrated circuits”, Addison-Wesley Pub. Co., 1997.
3. S. Ramachandran, “Digital VLSI systems design”, Springer, 2007.
4. M.L. Bushnell and V.D. Agrawal, “Essentials of Electronic Testing”, Kluwer Academic Publishers,
2000.
5. M. Abramovici, M.A. Breuer and A.D. Friedman, “Digital Systems Testing and Testable Design”,
Wiley-IEEE Press, 1993.
6. J. Bhasker, “Verilog VHDL synthesis: a practical primer”, B S Publications, 1998.
7. D.D. Gajski, N.D. Dutt, A.C. Wu and A.Y. Yin, “High-level synthesis: introduction to chip and
system design”, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1992.
8. High-Level Synthesis: from Algorithm to Digital Circuit,P.Coussy and A. Morawiec, Springer,
2008.
9. I. Sutherland, B. Sproull and D. Harris, Logical Effort: Designing Fast CMOS Circuits, Elsevier
10. M. Sarrafzadeh and C.K. Wong, “An introduction to physical design”, McGraw Hill, 1996.
11

--- Page 16 ---
11. N.A. Sherwani, “Algorithms for VLSI physical design automation”, Kluwer Academic Publishers,
1999.
12. S.M. Sait and H. Youssef, “VLSI physical design automation: theory and practice”, World
Scientific Pub. Co., 1999.
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Students will get the concept of total VLSI design style, starting from basic one-time
programmable logic to Application Specific Integrated Circuit.
CO2: Students will be exposed to know and explore different Algorithmic Approaches to solve complex
problem related to High Level Synthesis of circuit behavior to get efficient Register Transfer level
realization using Computer Aided Software/Tools.
CO3: Students will be able to know how efficiently delay of a big digital circuit will be estimated using
logical effort and what will be the optimum stages to get the least delay.
CO4: Students will be able to know the importance of Computer Aided (CAD) Automation for solving
VLSI physical design problems and they will be able to develop their own CAD algorithms to solve
physical design and Synthesis problems.
CO5: Students will understand the importance of VLSI circuit testing and different approaches of
VLSI testing.
12

--- Page 17 ---
LOW POWER VLSI DESIGN L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 In recent years, enormous growth has occurred in terms portability of the computation. Computing
demands from battery operated devices are increasing rapidly.
 This course is targeted to capture all the information regarding the existing techniques and future
challenges for CMOS VLSI design that consumes low power.
 It is focused on issues that are dominant in low power design under nano domain.
 To study power components, power estimation methodologies and analysis at various levels of
abstraction, starting from system level to behavioural, logic, circuit, gate and software level.
 Low power design style with increasing emphasis on leakage power is explained.
 Low power design, synthesis and optimization techniques are covered.
 Review of Battery-aware Synthesis and Variation tolerant design are explained as a conclusion of
the course.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Low-Power Design Methodologies: an Overview: Why Low-Power? Basics of MOS circuits: MOS
Transistor structure and device modelling, MOS inverters characteristics, delay and power estimation.
Module-2
Sources of power dissipation: Dynamic Power Dissipation, Static Power Dissipation and Degrees of
Freedom, Parameters involved in power dissipation, switching activity and power estimation
techniques. Dynamic CMOS circuits, Pass-transistor circuits.
Module-3
Supply Voltage Scaling Approaches: Device feature size scaling, Multi-VDD Circuits, Architectural
level approaches, High-level transformations, Dynamic voltage scaling and Power Management,
Switched Capacitance Minimization Approaches: Hw/Sw Trade off, Bus Encoding, 2’s complement
Vs. Sign Magnitude Architectural optimization, Clock Gating, low power logic styles like adiabatic
logic circuit, Low power BICMOS circuit design.
Module-4
Leakage Power minimization Approaches such as VTCMOS, MTCMOS, DTCMOS, Transistor
stacking, Power Gating and others.
Module-5
Binary Decision Diagram representation of Boolean function, Low Power logic synthesis and
optimization. Low power physical design, Low power gate level design, Battery-aware Synthesis and
Variation tolerant design.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. K.Roy and S.C. Prasad, LOW POWER CMOS VLSI circuit design, Wiley, 2000.
2. DimitriosSoudris, ChirstianPignet, Costas Goutis, DESIGNING CMOS CIRCUITS FOR LOW
POWER, Kluwer, 2002.
13

--- Page 18 ---
3. J.B. Kuo and J.H. Lou, Low voltage CMOS VLSI Circuits,Wiley 1999.
4. A.P.Chandrakasan and R.W. Broadersen, Low power digital CMOS design, Kluwer, 1995.
5. Gary Yeap, Practical low power digital VLSI design, Kluwer,1998.
6. AbdellatifBellaouar, Mohamed I.Elmasry, Low power digital VLSI design,S Kluwer, 1995.
7. James B. Kuo, Shin – chia Lin, Low voltage SOI CMOS VLSI Devices and Circuits. John Wiley
and sons, inc 2001.
8. J. M. Rabaey and MassoudPedram, Low Power Design Methodologies, Kluwer ACADEMIC
publishers. 1996.
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Knowing the need for reducing power consumption of the circuit and developing low powered
devices.
CO2: Get to know the different components of power consumption and their estimation method.
CO3: Capability to recognize advanced issues in VLSI systems, specific to the deep-submicron silicon
technologies, such as Short-Channel-Effect, leakage problem etc.
CO4: Knowing the concept of power reduction strategies and reviewing the existing Low-Power Design
Approaches.
CO5: Design and analysis of Low-Power Circuits, low power circuit synthesis and extending the low
power design to different Applications.
CO6: Understanding the need for battery management in designing low power and high-performance
battery-powered systems.
14

--- Page 19 ---
ELECTIVES
VLSI TESTING AND TESTABILITY L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
OBJECTIVES:
 Students are introduced to the variety of problems encountered in semiconductor testing and that
they are made aware of the new methods being developed to solve these problems at earlier stages
of design.
 Students will get the idea of how test modelling and test pattern generation are done.
 This course is a fundamental yet comprehensive guide to new DFT methods that will show readers
how to design a testable and quality product, drive down test cost, improve product quality and
yield, and speed up time-to-market and time-to-volume.
 It focuses more on basic VLSI test concepts, principles, and DFT architectures and includes the
latest advances that are in practice today, including at-speed scan testing, test compression, at-speed
built-in self-test (BIST), memory built-in self-repair (BISR), and test technology trends.
 This course also focuses on memory testing and low power testing techniques.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction to semiconductor testing. Importance of testing as a requisite for achieving manufacturing
quality of semiconductor devices and then identifies difficulties in VLSI testing, Defects and their
modeling as faults at gate level and transistor level. Various types of faults. Functional vs. Structural
approach to testing, Complexity of the testing problem, Controllability and Observability,
Module-2
Generating test for a single stuck at fault in combinational logic, D-algorithm, FAN and PODEM
algorithms, Test optimization and fault coverage.
Module-3
The problem of testing of sequential circuits, ADHOC and structured approaches of DFT – Various
kinds of scan design.
Module-4
Fault models for PLAs, Bridging and delay faults and their tests,
Module-5
Memory testing, testing with random patterns. The LFSRs and their use in random test generation and
response compression (including MISRs), Built – in self-test (BIST).
Module-6
Basic of analog and mixed signal testing and recent advances in low power testing methodologies.
15

--- Page 20 ---
TEXTS/REFERENCE:
1. M.Abramoviei, M.A.Breuer and A.D.Friedman, “Digital Systems Testing and Testable Design”,
IEEE Press, 1995 (Revised).
2. Laung-Terng Wang Cheng-Wen Wu Xiaoqing Wen, VLSI Test Principles and Architectures
Design for Testability, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers is an imprint of Elsevier. 500 Sansome Street,
Suite 400, San Francisco, CA 94111-2006.
3. V.Agrawal and S.C.Seth, “Test Generation for VLSI Chips”, IEEE CS Press, 1989.
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Students and researchers are introduced to know the importance of testing for better quality
product development.
CO2: Students are able to model the defects as faults sites and understand the complexity of testing
methodologies for different fault model.
CO3: Students are introduced with the existing test pattern generation algorithms including LFSR based
test generation.
CO4: Students are exposed to the field of design for testability (DFT) architectures in an effort to help
them design better quality products now and in the future that can be reliably manufactured in quantity.
CO5: Students are exposed with the importance of low power testing and are encouraged to develop
new low power testing methodologies.
16

--- Page 21 ---
EMBEDDED SYSTEMS & IoT L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 This course is directed towards the understanding of Embedded Systems and its various
components, as well as the concept of embedding Software into a system.
 To equip the Engineering students with the architecture and operation of standard
Microcontrollers like 8051, AVR and PIC.
 To equip the Engineering students with the knowledge of Internet of Things (IoT) and the basic
components associated with it.
 To make the students knowledgeable about various programming technologies required for
implementation of IoT.
 To make the Engineering students know about the basic concepts of processes, tasks and
threads in an Embedded system operation, as well as the concept of Real time operating
systems.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction to Embedded Systems: Characteristics of Embedded systems, Software embedded into a
system. General ideas of Processor and Memory organization - Processor and memory selection,
interfacing to Memory and I/O devices- Devices and Buses-Device Drivers and Interrupt Servicing
mechanisms, Hardware – software partitioning of tasks.
Module-2
AVR & PIC Microcontrollers:
Microcontrollers: Brief review of the 8 bit and 32 bit microcontroller AVR, Microchip PIC, ARM
processors-Programming, CPU Block diagram, Memory Organization, SFR s, Ports and Interfacing.
High Speed Input, High Speed Output, Interrupts, ADC, PWM, Timers, Watch Dog Timer, Serial Port,
I/O Port. Embedded C.
Module-3
Digital Signal Processors: DSP/16bit processor based embedded controllers; FPGA based embedded
controllers.
Module-4
Introduction to IoT, Sensing, Actuation, Basics of Networking, Communication Protocols, Sensor
Networks, Machine-to-Machine Communications.
Module-5
Introduction to Arduino Programming, Python programming, Raspberry Pi, Implementation of IoT with
Raspberry
Module-6
Inter-process Communication and Synchronization of Processes, Tasks and Threads: Multiple
Processes in an Application - Data sharing by multiple tasks and routines- Inter Process
Communication. Introduction to Operating Systems and Real Time Operating Systems.
17

--- Page 22 ---
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Students will be able to understand and explain the basic concept of Embedded systems and its
various components.
CO2: Students will be able to explain the operational characteristics of standard Microcontrollers like
8051, AVR and PIC.
CO3: Students will be able to understand basic components and building blocks of Internet of Things
CO4: Students will be able to understand IoT design considerations, constraints and interfacing between
the physical world and devices.
CO5: Students will gain insight into the real time operating systems used in Embedded Systems.
TEXT/REFERENCE:
1. Santanu Chattopadhyay, ‘Embedded System Design’, PHI.
2. Peter Marwedel, Embedded System Design, Springer, Indian Ed.
3. Andrew N. Sloss, Dominic Symes, Chris Wright. “ARM System Developers Guide: Designing
and Optimizing System Software”, Elsevier.
4. Richard Barnett, Larry O’Cull, Sarah Cox, “Embedded C Programming and the Microchip PIC”,
Delmar Cengage Learning.
5. Prof. Satish Jain and Shashi Singh, ‘Internet of Things and its Applications’, BPB Publications.
6. Arsheep Bahga and Vijay Madisetti, ‘Internet of Things: A Hands-On Approach’, Orient
Blackswan Private Limited.
18

--- Page 23 ---
VLSI SIGNAL PROCESSING L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 Introduce students to the basics of VLSI signal processing and the designing of VLSI architectures.
 This course is directed towards the understanding of important techniques for designing efficient
VLSI architectures for DSP.
 What are the challenges in the implementation of DSP systems and how to overcome these
challenges?
 How to design a system with high throughput demanded by the real-time applications and also with
less power and less chip area.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Overview of VLSI Architectures, Typical Signal Processing Algorithms, representation of DSP
algorithms; Iterative bound: data-flow graph representation, loop bound and iterative bound.
Module-2
Pipelining and parallel processing: pipelining of FIR filters, pipelining and parallel processing for low-
power; Retiming: definition and properties, retiming techniques; Unfolding: properties of unfolding,
critical path, unfolding and retiming; Folding: folding transformations, register minimization
techniques.
Module-3
Systolic architecture design methodology, FIR systolic arrays; Fast convolution: Cook-Toom algorithm,
Winograd algorithm, cyclic convolution; Algorithm strength reduction in filters and transforms: parallel
FIR filters, DCT and IDCT, rank-order filters.
Module-4
Pipelined and parallel recursive and adaptive filters: pipeline inverting in digital filters, pipelining in
first-order IIR filter, parallel processing for IIR filter; DSP Processors for Mobile and Wireless
Communications, Processors for Multidimensional Signal Processing.
TEXT/REFERENCE:
1. K. K. Parhi, “VLSI Digital Signal Processing Systems, Design and Implementation”, John Wiley,
1999.
2. S.Y.Kung, “VLSI Array Processors”, Prentice-Hall, 1988
19

--- Page 24 ---
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Students will be able to understand and explain the basic concept of VLSI signal processing and
its various components.
CO2: Students will be able to design hardware architecture for various DSP techniques and algorithms.
CO3: Students will be able to understand how to reduce the area, power and delay of a DSP-based
circuit and also able to understand how to increase the throughput and operating frequency of a DSP-
circuit.
CO4: Students will gain insight into the real-time operating systems used in DSP Systems.
20

--- Page 25 ---
OPTOELECTRONICS DEVICE AND L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
CIRCUITS
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To learn about the basic principles of optical fiber based circuits.
 To have some knowledge about optical source and detector devices.
 To be familiar with various optical amplifiers.
 To collect some knowledge about optical guiding structures.
 To learn the concept regarding silicon photonics.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1:
Introduction: Generic Optical Systems and Fundamental Building Blocks.
Module-2:
Basics of Semi-conductor Optoelectronics: Elemental and Compound Semiconductors.
Module-3:
Electronic Properties and Optical Processes in Semiconductors, P-N Junction Theory, LEDs and
Photodetectors.
Module-4:
Heterostructures, Confinement of Electron Waves, Optical Waveguides and Guided Modes.
Module-5:
Semiconductor Optical Amplifiers and Fabry-Perot Lasers, Coupled Mode Theory, DBR and DFB
Lasers.
Module-6:
Silicon Photonics: Integrated Optical Passive and Active Components. Tunable Filters, Delay-Lines
and Switching Circuits in SOI Platform. CMOS Technology: Electrical vs. Optical Interconnects.
TEXTS/REFERENCE:
1. Pallab Bhattacharya “Semiconductor Opto-Electronic Devices”, Prentice Hall of India.
2. Yariv and P. Yeh “Photonics - Optical Electronics in Modern Communications”, Oxford University
Press.
3. M. Jamal Deen and P.K. Basu “Silicon Photonics - Fundamentals and Devices”, John Wiley & Sons
Ltd.
21

--- Page 26 ---
COURSE OUTCOME:
At the end of this course the students should be able to
CO1: Develop a basic understanding on the key concepts in quantum and statistical mechanics relevant
to physical, electrical and optoelectronic properties of materials and their applications to optoelectronic
devices and photonic integrated circuits that emit, modulate, switch, and detect photons.
CO2: Become proficient with the fundamental and applied optoelectronic device physics and its
applications.
CO3: Learn to analyse optoelectronic device characteristics in detail and brainstorm ways towards
improving them or adapting them to new applications.
22

--- Page 27 ---
SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORIES L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 This graduate course is focused on the comprehensive discussion of semiconductor memory design
from transistor level architecture to complex Memory Design in Programmable Devices as well as
ASIC.
 To equip the Engineering students with the knowledge of volatile memory technologies such as
Static Random Access Memory (SRAM), Dynamic RAMs (DRAM), Multi-ported RAMs, and
Content Addressable memories (CAMs).
 To equip the Engineering students with the knowledge of non-volatile semiconductor memories
such as Read-Only-Memories, Resistive RAM, Magnetic RAM, FLASH and 3D memories.
 To make the Engineering student know about the basic concepts of Memory Fault modeling and
testing as well as general reliability and design issues of semiconductor memories.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Static Random Access Memory Technologies:
SRAM Cell Structures, MOS SRAM Architecture and Peripheral Circuit Operation, Bipolar SRAM
Technologies, Silicon On Insulator (SOI) Technology, Advanced SRAM Architectures and
Technologies, Application Specific SRAMs.
Module-2
Dynamic Random-Access Memories (DRAMs):
DRAM Technology Development, CMOS DRAMs, DRAMs Cell Theory and Advanced Cell
Strucutures, BiCMOS DRAMs, Soft Error Failures in DRAMs, Advanced DRAM Designs and
Architecture, Application Specific DRAMs.
Module-3
Non-Volatile Memories:
Masked Read-Only Memories (ROMs), High Density ROMs, Programmable Read-Only
Memories(PROMs), CMOS PROMs, Erasable (UV) Programmable Read-Only Memories(EPROMs),
Floating Gate EPROM Cell,OneTime Programmable (OTP) EPROMs,ElectricallyErasablePROMs
(EEPROMs), EEPROM Technology and Architecture,Non-Volatile SRAM, Flash Memories(EPROMs
or EEPROM), Advanced Flash Memory Architecture.
Module- 4
Memory Fault Modeling and Testing:
RAM Fault Modeling, Electrical Testing, Peusdo Random Testing, Megabit DRAM Testing, Non-
volatileMemoryModeling and Testing, IDDQ Fault Modeling and Testing, Application Specific
Memory Testing.
Module-5
Semiconductor Memory Reliability and Radiation Effects:
General Reliability Issues, RAM Failure Modes and Mechanism, Non-volatile Memory Reliability,
Modeling and Failure Rate Prediction, Design for Reliability, Reliability Test Structures, Reliability
Screening and Qualification, Radiation Effects, Single Event Phenomenon (SEP), Radiation Hardening
Techniques and Design Issues.
23

--- Page 28 ---
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Students will be able to identify and explain the concept and working principle of volatile memory
technologies such as Static Random Access Memory (SRAM), Dynamic RAMs (DRAM), Multi-ported
RAMs, and Content Addressable memories (CAMs).
CO2: Students will be able to identify and explain the concept of various non-volatile semiconductor
memories such as Read-Only-Memories, Resistive RAM, Magnetic RAM, FLASH and 3D memories.
CO3: Students will be able to understand the various Memory Faults models and testing techniques of
the semiconductor memories.
CO4: Students will be able to understand about the reliability and design issues arising in the
manufacturing of semiconductor memories.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. AndreiPavlov, ManojSachdev, “CMOS SRAM Circuit Design and Parametric Test in Nano-Scaled
Technologies”, Springer Germany, 2008.
2. Ashok K. Sharma, “Semiconductor Memories Technology, Testing and Reliability”, Prentice-Hall
of India Private Limited, New Delhi, 1997.
3. Fernanda Lima Kastensmidt, Ricardo Reis“Fault-Tolerance Techniques for SRAM-Based FPGAs”,
Springer US, 2006.
24

--- Page 29 ---
VLSI INTERCONNECTS L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
 To impart knowledge about the importance of electrical on-chip interconnects in modern VLSI
circuits.
 To introduce the various equivalent circuit models of interconnects and their comparison.
 To understand the Crosstalk effects in the circuits and its analysis
 To enable the students to understand the advanced techniques to reduce interconnect noise.
COURSE CONTENT
Module 1:
Introduction to VLSI interconnects classification, Cu Interconnect, Technological trends, Interconnect
scaling, Typical interconnect structure, Electromigration phenomenon, Signal transmission on
interconnects, On‐chip Interconnects, Package level interconnections.
Module 2:
Extraction of interconnect parameters, Physics of interconnects in VLSI, physical foundations for circuit
models of VLSI interconnects, Interconnect resistance, capacitance, inductance modelling, Extended
Miller effect, Alternatives for extraction. Modelling interconnect drivers. Loss and Lossless
transmission line model, Switch‐level RC model. T and π network inter connect model. Effective
capacitance modelling. Modelling interconnect wires. General interconnect network. An RC tree. The
transfer function. Convolution of input and impulse response. Moments of the transfer function. Impulse
and step response of RC tree. Elmore delay. Response of single RC. Elmore delay of 2‐stage RC. RC‐
tree. Step response of lumped vs. distributed RC line. Sample RLC network. Modified node analysis
equations.
Module 3:
Active and Passive interconnections, multi-level and multi-layer interconnections, Propagation delays,
Crosstalk effects in digital circuits, spurious signals, crosstalk induced delay, energy dissipation due to
cross talk, crosstalk effects in VLSI circuits.
Module 4:
Techniques for avoiding interconnection noise, noise detection problem, brief introduction to the testing
of logic circuits, Crosstalk configuration, DC noise margins, Crosstalk‐induced spurious signal
detection, Reasons for high delay uncertainty, switch factor modelling of delay uncertainty, Buffer
insertion for noise; Routing topology generation for speed optimization, Width optimization based on
separability/monotonicity properties. Introduction to emerging interconnects (CNT, Graphene, optical
interconnects and soon).
TEXTS/REFERENCES
1. Grabinski, Hartmut, Interconnects in VLSI Design, 1st Edition, Springer, 2000.
2. C‐K.Cheng, J. Lillis, S.Lin, N. H. Chang. Interconnect Analysis and Synthesis J. Wiley, 2000.
3. M.Celik, L.Pillegi, A.Odabasioglu. IC Interconnect Analysis. Kluwer, 2002.
4. A.B.Kahng, G.Robins. On Optimal Interconnections for VLSI. Kluwer, 1995.
5. Moll, Francesc, Roca, Miquel, Interconnection Noise in VLSI Circuits, 1st Edition, Springer,
2004.
25

--- Page 30 ---
6. J. A.Davis, J.D. Meindl. Interconnect Technology and Design for Gigascale Integration.
Kluwer, 2003.
7. F.Moll, M.Roca.Interconnection Noise in VLSI Circuits. Kluwer, 2004.
COURSE OUTCOMES
Upon successful completion of the course, the students will be able to-
CO1: Develop the ability to analyse and design electrical interconnect using equivalent circuit models.
CO2: Know the crosstalk effects in VLSI circuits and able to develop the ability to analyse the crosstalk
effects.
CO3: Know the different techniques to reduce interconnect noise related issues in the circuit.
CO4: Know different emerging interconnects which would exhibit very low interconnect noise.
26

--- Page 31 ---
LASER SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
 To prepare the students understand fundamental physics behind laser light radiation.
 To enable students familiar with Solid state, gas and semiconductor lasers.
 How to generate ultra-short laser pulses.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Laser fundamentals: Spontaneous and stimulated emission, absorption, Einstein’s coefficients,
active medium, population inversion, laser-pumping, laser gain, metastable state, condition for
light amplification, Optical resonator, Solid state laser: Ruby laser, Nd:YAG laser.
Module-2
Liquid lasers: Principle and main components of laser, levels of laser action, continuous wave
lasers, construction and working of dye laser.
Gas Laser: Principle, working and usefulness of gas laser, He-Ne laser, lasing action in Ion
lasers.
Module-3
Semiconductor laser: Characteristics of semiconductor lasers, semiconductor diode lasers
construction and operation of ion lasers.
Laser fabrication, Laser in optical communication: Optical source for fiber optical
communication, essential characteristics of laser in fibre optic communication.
Module-4
Fundamentals of Nonlinear Optics: Nonlinear Wave Propagation, Second Harmonic
Generation, Phase Matching, Q-switching, mode locking.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. Laser Fundamentals, 2nd Edition, William T. Silfvast.
2. Lasers- Fundamentals & Applications, 2nd Edition, K. Thyagarayan and Ajay Ghatak.
3. G.P.Agarwal, Nonlinear Fiber Optics, 4th edition, Academic
COURSE OUTCOMES:
Students are able to
CO1: understand the special characteristics of laser light and optical resonator function.
CO2: understand constructional features of different types of Lasers.
CO3: compare different ultra-short laser pulse generation.
CO4: Explore laser fabrication and its various applications.
27

--- Page 32 ---
28

--- Page 33 ---
VLSI BASED CHIP DESIGN FOR L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
SIGNAL AND IMAGE PROCESSING
COURSES OBJECTIVE:
 Discussions about the concept of non-linear signal processing and non-linear filters
 Analysis of non-Gaussian models for signal and image processing.
 Design of various filters in space and frequency domain for enhancement, restoration and
segmentation of digital images.
 To impart some knowledge about VLSI based non-linear signal and image processing.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1:
Non-linear signal processing; non-linear filters; Non-Gaussian models, Generalized Gaussian and
Stable distributions, robust estimation.
Module 2:
Medium smoothers, Rank-order filters, Weighted Median Smoother. Introduction to order statistics,
joint densities, moments. Weighted median filtering; Link between linear and non-linear smoothers and
filters.
Module 3:
Mallows Theorem. Generalized median filtering: L-estimator; tefilter, optimality, Zero-crossing (ZC)
based spectral analysis, dominant frequency principle; ZC and level-crossing based signal
decomposition.
Module 4:
Auditory models.Representation of two dimensional signals; Sampling, quantization and
reconstruction; Digital images.
Module 5:
Human visual perception; Various Transforms: DFT, DCT, KLT.
Module 6:
Wavelet; Filtering; Edge detection; Image restoration; Compression; Segmentation; Applications.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. Meyer-Baese, Digital Signal Processing with Field Programmable Arrays, Uwe, Springer.
2. Parhi, Keshab K, VLSI Digital Signal Processing Systems Design Implementation, JohnWiley.
3. G. R. Arce, Non-linear signal processing: A statistical approach, Wiley.
4. J. Astola and P. Kuosmanen, Fundamentals of non-linear digital filtering, CRC Press.
5. B. Kedem, Time series analysis by higher order crossings, IEEE Press.
6. F. Maravasti, A unified approach to zero-crossings and non-uniform sampling.
7. Anil K Jain, Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing, Prentice-Hall.
8. Gonzales R. C., and Woods R.E., Digital Image Processing, Addison-Wesley
29

--- Page 34 ---
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: To have some knowledge of various concepts of non-linear signal and image processing.
CO2: To be able to evaluate the performance of spatial and frequency domain filters for signal
processing.
CO3: To develop understanding about various non -linear filters for image processing.
CO4: To learn about detail methodologies of image restoration, compression and image segmentation.
CO5:To have some idea about VLSI based signal and image processing.
30

--- Page 35 ---
TECHNOLOGY CAD L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
 To relate theory on semiconductor processing and device physics to practical technology
development and device design considerations.
 To get familiarized with the use of TCAD tools as a design aid in process and device simulation.
 To visualize physical quantities and parameters at various stages of the design.
 To study the influence of process variables on the device performance.
 To provide a general framework that should allow students to understand the working methodology
of TCAD and, more generally, of CAD. Another goal of the course is provide an intuitive feeling
of the physics of the semiconductor devices, which are at the heart of each electronic system.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction and overview; History and structures; the role of TCAD for Semiconductor technology
development.
Module-2
TCAD principles; Tool integration; Structure editing and mesh generation.
Module-3
Process technology Si, Si-Ge, III-V semiconductors; Process simulation – general; Simulation of device
characteristics; Device level simulation challenges.
Module-4
Introducing new device models; Hetero junction device modeling; Simulation of silicon germanium
HBTs; Simulation of hetero structure FETs; Simulation of AlGaAs/GaAs devices.
Module-5
VWF automation tools; Example of VWF methodology; Extraction of DC and AC SPICE model
parameters; Small signal AC analysis for CMOS and bipolar transistors.
Module-6
Application of mixed-mode simulation; TCAD calibration procedure; Integration into the CADENCE
design framework.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. C.Snowden,“Introduction to Semiconductor Device Modeling”, World Scientific, 1986.
2. “Technology Computer Aided Design” by Chandan Kumar Sarkar Released September
2018Publisher(s): CRC Press ISBN: 9781466512665
3. Y. Tsividis and C. McAndrew,“MOSFETmodeling for Circuit Simulation”, Oxford University
Press, 2011.
COURSE OUTCOME:
31

--- Page 36 ---
CO1: Develop Device structure, do the structure editing and also generate mesh using the TCAD tools.
CO2: Simulate characteristics of a simple device using MATLAB, SPICE and ATLAS /SYNOPSYS
CO3: Derive Hetero junction device model and simulate the characteristics.
CO4: Create device structures and impurity distributions through process-dependent numerical
simulation using VWF automation tools.
CO5: Apply mixed-mode simulation and also understand the TCAD calibration procedure.
32

--- Page 37 ---
NANOELECTRONIC DEVICES L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
The course intends to impart the following knowledge to the students
 Explain the fundamental science behind nanoelectronics and review the electronic properties of low
dimensional structures.
 To introduce the students to nanoelectronics, nanoscale devices, spintronics.
 To introduce the students to non-classical and advanced MOSFET configurations.
 To introduce optical and sensor device based on nanostructured materials.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Review of the fundamentals of quantum Mechanics – From classical electronics to nanoelectronics;
Electronic properties of low dimensional structures – quantum wells, quantum wires, quantum dots.
Module-2
Charge and spin in single quantum dots, Coulomb blockage, Electron in mesoscopic structure, single
electron transfer devices (SETs), Electron spin transistor, Resonant tunnel diodes, Tunnel FETS,
Quantum Interference transistors (QUITs), Quantum dot cellular automata (QCAs), Quantum dot array,
Quantum computer, Quantum bits (qubits)
Module-3
Fundamentals of Silicon MOSFET Devices, scaling rules, Gate oxide tunneling and hot electron effects
in nano MOSFET, Advanced MOSFETS- Tirigate FETs, FinFETs-CMOS, Nanowire FET, CNT FET,
Graphene Transistors, Molecular electronics and Molecular SETs.
Module-4
Quantum well lasers, Quantum dot lasers, Quantum wire lasers, LEDs based on nanostructures (wires,
tubes, rods and dots), Sensors devices using nanostructured materials.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. Griffiths D J, “Introduction to quantum mechanics”, 2nd Edition, Pearson Education (2015).
2. Hanson G W, “Fundamentals of Nanoelectronics”, 1stEditition, Pearson Education (2009).
3. Nanoelectronics and Information Technology: Advanced Electronic Materials and Novel Devices”,
Edited by Rainer Waser, 3rd Edition, Wiley-VCH, 2012.
4. SadamichiMaekawa, “Concepts in Spin Electronics”, Oxford Unversity Press, 2006.
5. Banyai. L and Koch. S.W “Semiconductor Quantum Dots”, World Scientific, 1993.
6. K.Goser, P. Glosekotter and J. Dienstuhl, “Nanoelectronics and Nanosystems-From transistors to
molecular quantum Devices”, Springer, 2004.
7. Ping Sheng,Zikang Tang, “Nanoscience and Technology: Novel stricture and phenomena”, CRC
Press; 1st edition (2003).
33

--- Page 38 ---
COURSE OUTCOMES:
Upon completion of the course the students will familiarize with
CO1. The fundamental concepts of quantum mechanics behind this nanoscale technology.
CO2. Concepts and operation of different types of non-classical and novel nanoelectronic devices.
CO3. Advanced MOSFET and FET based on nanomaterials.
CO4. The application of the technology in optoelectronics and sensor devices
34

--- Page 39 ---
SYNTHESIS AND CHARACTERIZATION L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
OF NANOMATERIALS
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
The course intends to impart the following knowledge to the students
 General introduction to the nanomaterials and their synthesis strategies.
 Physical and chemical synthesis methods of nanomaterials following Top down and Bottom up
approach and investigation of the different factors influencing the properties and structure of the
synthesized material.
 Advanced physical nanofabrication technique for the preparation of 1D and 2D nanostructure
including nano devices.
 Microscopic, structural and spectroscopic characterization techniques of nanomaterials.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Nanomaterials: Introduction, classification, properties, Applications, challenges and risk assessment;
Top down synthesis approach: Mechanical milling, Laser ablation, Arc discharge, Optical lithography,
Electron beam lithography, Ion beam lithography, Soft lithography, Nanoimprint lithography, Scanning
probe lithography, Dip pen lithography, Templated etching, Electrochemical etching, Selective
dealloying, Anisotropic dissolution, Thermal decomposition.
Module-2
Bottom up synthesis approach: Inert gas condensation technique, Vapor deposition and different types
of epitaxial growth techniques (CVD, MOCVD, MBE, ALD), Pulse laser deposition, Magnetron
sputtering, Vapour liquid solid growth, Spray pyrolysis, Electrospraying and spin coating routes. Sol-
gel method, solvo-thermal and hydrothermal, Precipitation, Self-assembled monolayers (SAMs),
Langmuir Blodgett (LB) films, Micro emulsion polymerization, Template based synthesis of
nanomaterials, Electrochemical and electrophoretic deposition.
Module-3
Surface Imaging and Structural characterization: X-Ray diffraction, Transmission Electron Microscopy
(TEM), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), Selected Area Diffraction (SAED), Scanning tunneling
microscope (STM), Atomic force microscopy (AFM).
Module-4
Spectroscopic Technique: Infrared (IR) spectroscopy, UV-Visible-NIR spectroscopy, Raman
Spectroscopy, Photoluminescence (PL), Cathodeluminescence (CL), X-Ray Photoelectron
Spectroscopy (XPS), Auger Electron Spectroscopy (AES), Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy
(EDAX)
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. Guozhong Cao, “Nanostructures and Nanomaterials: Synthesis: Properties and Application”,
Imperial College press, London, 2004.
2. T. Pradeep, “Nano: The Essential Understanding nanoscience and nanotechnology”, Tata
McGrawHill Publishing Company Limited, New Delhi, 2007
35

--- Page 40 ---
3. A. S Edelstein and R C Cammarata, “Nanomaterials Synthesis, Properties and Applications”, IOP
Publishing Ltd 1996.
4. D.K Schroder, “Semiconductor Material and Device Characterization”, John Wiley & Sons, New
York, 1998.
5. Yang Leng, “Material Characterization: Introduction to Microscopic and Spectroscopic Methods”
2nd Edition, Wiley-VCH, 2nd edition (2013).
6. Charles Evans, Richard Brundle, Wilson“Encyclopedia of materials Characterization: Surfaces,
Interfaces, Thin Films” Butterworth-Heinemann; Braille edition (1992).
COURSE OUTCOME:
Upon completion of the course the students would familiarize with-
CO1: Identification of different class of nanostructured materials based on their dimension and
associated risk assessment.
CO2: Some of the applications of nanomaterials and their societal and environmental application.
CO3: Different strategies for synthesis of nanomaterials and fabrication of nanodevices.
CO4: Techniques for characterization of the nanomaterials.
36

--- Page 41 ---
AN INTRODUCTION TO ELECTRONIC L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
SYSTEMS PACKAGING
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
This course intends to impart the following knowledge to the students
 Packaging hierarchy and aspects of handheld products, process flowchart, wafer preparation and
testing.
 Single-chip and multi-chip modules, system in package and hybrid circuit packaging aspects.
 Electrical parasitic issue consideration, printed wiring board technologies.
 To discuss various aspects of interconnection CAD for printed wiring boards.
 It is focused on the issues of thermal design considerations in systems packaging.
 To discuss various aspects of embedded passives technology.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1
Overview of electronic systems packaging: Introduction and Objectives of the course; Definition of
a system and history of semiconductors; Products and levels of packaging; Packaging aspects of
handheld products; Case studies in applications; Definition of PWB. Single chip packages or modules
(SCM); Commonly used packages and advanced packages-Materials in packages; Thermal mismatch
in packages- Current trends in packaging; Multichip modules (MCM)-types; System-in-package (SIP);
Packaging roadmaps, Hybrid circuits.
Module- 2
Semiconductor Packaging Overview and Electrical Design considerations in systems packaging:
Basics of Semiconductor and Process flowchart; Wafer fabrication; inspection and testing; Wafer
packaging; Packaging evolution; Chip connection choices; Wire bonding. Electrical Issues-Resistive
Parasitic, Electrical Issues – II; Capacitive and Inductive Parasitic, Layout guidelines and the Reflection
problem.
Module- 3
Interconnection CAD for Printed Wiring Boards: Quick Tutorial on packages, Benefits from CAD,
Introduction to DFM, DFR & DFT; Components of a CAD package and its highlights, Design Flow
considerations – Beginning a circuit design with schematic work and component layout, Demo and
examples of layout and routing, Technology file generation from CAD, DFM check list and design
rules, Design for Reliability.
Module- 4
Printed Wiring Board Technologies- Board-level packaging aspects: Review of CAD output files
for PCB fabrication; Photo plotting and mask generation; Process flow-chart; Vias; PWB substrates;
Substrates continued; Video highlights; Surface preparation; Photoresist and application methods; UV
exposure and developing; Printing technologies for PWBs; PWB etching, Resist stripping, Screen-
printing technology Through-hole manufacture process steps, Panel and pattern plating methods, Solder
mask for PWBs; Multilayer PWBs; Introduction to microvias, Microvia technology and Sequential
build-up technology process flow for high-density interconnects Conventional Vs HDI technologies;
Flexible circuits.
37

--- Page 42 ---
Module- 5
Surface Mount Technology: SMD benefits; Design issues; Introduction to soldering; Reflow and
Wave Soldering methods to attach SMDs; Solders-Wetting of solders, Flux and its properties, Defects
in wave soldering; Vapour phase soldering, BGA soldering and Desoldering/Repair; SMT failures;
SMT failure library and Tin Whiskers; Tin-lead and lead-free solders; Phase diagrams; Thermal profiles
for reflow soldering; Lead-free alloys, Lead-free solder considerations; Green electronics; RoHS
compliance and e-waste recycling issues.
Module- 6
Thermal Design considerations in systems packaging.
Module- 7
Embedded Passives Technology: Introduction to embedded passives; Need for embedded passives;
Design Library; Embedded resistor processes; Embedded capacitors; Processes for embedding
capacitors; Case study examples.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. Integrated Circuit Packaging, Assembly and Interconnections, William J. Greig, Springer.
2. An Introduction to Electronics Systems Packaging, G. V. Mahesh.
3. Introduction to System-on-Package, Rao R Tummala&MadhavanSwaminathan, McGraw Hill.
4. Fundamentals of Microsystems Packaging, Rao R. Tummala, McGraw Hill.
5. Essentials of electronic packaging: a multidisciplinary approach, PuligandlaViswanadham,
DerejeAgonafer, ASME Press.
COURSE OUTCOME:
Upon completion of the course students are expected to demonstrate knowledge, skill and abilities in
the following areas:
CO1: Student masters the essential knowledge of electronics packaging including package types or
forms, hierarchy and methods of packaging necessary for various environments.
CO2: Students will be able to understand about the semiconductor packaging, system packaging and
printed circuit board technologies.
CO3: Students will be able to understand the various thermal aspects of system packaging.
CO4: Ability to distinguish between engineering performance and economic considerations to develop
cost-efficient and high performance packaging approaches.
CO5: Students should be able to predict the reliability of electronic components and structures.
38

--- Page 43 ---
ADVANCED COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
AND PROCESSOR DESIGN
COURSE OBJECTIVES:
 To discuss basic computer architecture with both control flow and data flow designs.
 To discuss the ISAs of some processors.
 To discuss concepts of pipelining and the design problems associated with it.
 To discuss various aspects of single cycle vs. multi cycle design.
 To discuss in order and out of order execution and their benefits and drawbacks.
 To discuss data transfer methods within the processor.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Instruction Set Architecture (ISA) and Microarchitecture: ISA Principles and Trade-offs, RISC and
CISC, Instruction Classes, Semantic Gap, Translation, MIPS and X86 ISA.Single Cycle and Multi
Cycle Microarchitecture, Control and Data path.
Module-2
Pipelining: Pipelining basics, Ideal Pipeline, Pipeline Stalls, Data and Control Dependencies, Resource
Contention, Data Dependence and Control Dependence handling.
Module-3
Branch Prediction: Misprediction penalty, BTB, Branch prediction techniques (Static and Dynamic),
Out of Order Execution.
Module-4
SIMD Processing: Vector and Array Processors.
Module-5
The Memory Hierarchy: Memory System, DRAM and SRAM, Cache Memories, Direct mapped
cache, Set-associative cache, Fully associative cache, Cache replacement policies, Cache Write
Handling.
Module-6
Virtual Addressing: Basic Mechanism, Paging, Page Fault, Address translation, Page Replacement
algorithms, Access Control, Privilege Levels.
Module-7
Multiprocessors: Parallel Speed-up, Amdahl’s Law, Interconnects.
39

--- Page 44 ---
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. Hennessy and Patterson, Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach, Elsevier.
2. Morris Mano, Computer System Architecture, Pearson.
3. Dally and Towels, Principal and Practices of Interconnection Networks, Elsevier
COURSE OUTCOME:
After the completion of the course, students:
CO1: Will have an idea of current challenges being faced in microprocessor design and the research
trends to solve those problems.
CO2: Will have a basic idea about ISA.
CO3: Will have an understanding of memory design issues.
CO4: Will learn about multicore processor design issues.
CO5: Will have a knowledge of on chip networking.
40

--- Page 45 ---
HARDWARE SECURITY L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To have an understanding of the fundamentals of Cryptography.
 To know thegoalsofHardware Security.
 To have a knowledge of Private Key Encryption and Public Key Encryption and their hardware
implementations.
 To understand side channel attacks.
 To have a knowledge of Physically Unclonable Function (PUF).
 To know the importance of IP protection.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction to Modern Symmetric Key Cryptography and Public Key Cryptography:
Mathematical background for cryptography and introduction to hardware security. Symmetric key
ciphers: AES. Asymmetric Key Ciphers: RSA cryptosystem, Elliptic curve cryptography. Hardware
design of AES.
Module-2
Design of Finite Field Arithmetic on FPGAs: Finite Field Multiplier, Karatsuba Multipliers for
Elliptic Curves, Analyzing Karatsuba Multipliers on FPGA Platforms, Finite Field Inversion
Architecture for FPGAs, Itoh-Tsujii Inversion Algorithm, the Quad ITA Algorithm.
Module-3
Implementation of Elliptic Curve Scalar Multiplication on FPGAs: The Elliptic Curve Crypto-
processor, Acceleration Techniques of the ECC Processor, Pipelining Strategies for Scalar Multiplier.
Module-4
Side Channel Attacks: Types of Side Channel Attacks, Power Attacks, Fault Attacks, Cache Attacks,
Scan Chain-Based Attacks.
Module-5
Physically Unclonable Functions (PUF): Classification of PUFs, PUF implementations, PUF Quality
Evaluation, Applications of PUF, Attacks Model.
Module-6
Intellectual Property Protection: Modern IC Design and Manufacturing Practices and Their
Implications: Hardware Intellectual Property (IP) Piracy and IC Piracy, Design Techniques to Prevent
IP and IC Piracy.
Module-7
Hardware Trojans: Hardware Trojan Taxonomy, HT Detection Methods, HT Prevention.
41

--- Page 46 ---
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Debdeep Mukhopadhyay and Rajat Subhra Chakraborty, "Hardware Security: Design, Threats, and
Safeguards", CRC Press.
2. Forouzan and Mukhopadhyay, “Cryptography and Network Security”, McGraw Hill.
COURSE OUTCOME:
After the completion of the course, students will:
CO1: Have an idea about the basics of cryptography.
CO2: Have knowledge of designing finite field arithmetic on FPGA.
CO3: Have knowledge of different types of attacks.
CO4: Learn to implement encryption algorithms on hardware.
CO5: Have knowledge of IP protection.
42

--- Page 47 ---
MEMS AND MICROSYSTEM L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 The course will provide adequate understanding of the physics behind the MEMS and
Microsystems
 To make students familiar with different types microsystems useful in Industries.
 To discuss MEMS device fabrication technique.
 To discuss different MEMS Device theories and their Characterization.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1. Introduction to MEMS
Brief overview of: MEMS, Microsystems & Microelectronics Introduction to Micro fabrication,
Micro sensors, Micro actuation, Micro accelerometers, Micro fluidics. MEMS & microsystem
application in Electrical, Electronics, Mechanical and Bio-Medical fields.
Module 2: MEMS Materials and Their Properties
Most popular Materials used in MEMS & Microsystems, and theirs properties: Young modulus,
Poisson’s ratio, density, Piezo-resistive coefficients, Temperature Coefficient of Resistance,
Thermal Conductivity. Selection criterion of MEMS materials based on filed applications.
Module 3: MEMS Fabrication Processes
Understanding MEMS Fabrication Processes & parameters for: Cleaning, Growth & Deposition, Ion
Implantation & Diffusion, Annealing, Lithography, Etching, Bulk & Surface Micromachining, Surface
Micromachining, The LIGA Process. Selection of MEMS Fabrication processes based on Applications.
Module 4: MEMS Devices
Understanding the Architecture, working and basic principle of: Micro-heaters, Accelerometers,
Pressure Sensors, Digital Micrometer Device. Understanding steps involved in Design and
fabrication of the above devices.
Module 5: MEMS Device Characterization
Piezo-resistance, TCR, Stiffness, Adhesion, Vibration, Resonant frequency, & importance of
these measurements in studying device behavior, MEMS Reliability.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Analysis and Design Principles of MEMS Devices - Minhang Bao; Publisher:
Elsevier Science
2. An Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems Engineering; 2nd Ed - by N.
Maluf, K Williams; Publisher: Artech House Inc
43

--- Page 48 ---
3. Microsystem Design - by S. Senturia; Publisher: Springer
4. Micro Electro Mechanical System Design - by J. Allen; Publisher: CRC Press
5. Fundamentals of Microfabrication - by M. Madou; Publisher: CRC Press; 2nd Ed
6. Analysis and Design Principles of MEMS Devices - Minhang Bao; Publisher:
Elsevier Science.
COURSE OUTCOME:
After successful completion of the course the students will be able to:
CO1: Understand the underlying fundamental principles of different MEMS and
Microsystem.
CO2: Develop the concept of MEMS device oper Develop the concept of MEMS device operation,
fabrication and characterization.
CO3: Know the MEMS materials and their physical properties which makes them useful for MEMS.
CO4: Understand different concepts of micro system sensors and actuators for real-world
applications.
44

--- Page 49 ---
LOGIC SYNTHESIS AND VERIFICATION L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
This course intends to impart the following knowledge to the students
 To provide an introduction to the fundamentals of Computer-Aided Design for the modelling,
design, analysis, test, and verification of digital Very Large-Scale Integration (VLSI) systems.
 To optimize the Digital Logic Circuits using the two-level, multi-level and multi-valued logic.
 To impart the knowledge of functional verification and equivalence checking.
 Infer the knowledge of Static Timing Analysis in VLSI logic design and verification
methodologies.
 To develop HDL code and test benches to simulate combinational and sequential circuits for
design and verification.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1
Introduction: Introduction to VLSI Logic Synthesis, Opportunities and Challenges in VLSI,
VLSI Design Process, Logic circuit decomposition techniques, Optimal Logic Synthesis,
Trade-off nature, Graph Algorithms and complexity, Asymptotic Complexity.
Module- 2
Two-Level, Multi-Level and Multi-Valued Logic Optimization: Two level: exact logic
minimization, heuristic logic minimization. Multi-level: Algebraic method, Boolean methods,
functional decomposition. Multi-Valued: Functions, Functional completeness, Chain-based
post algebra, function representation and optimization, Concept of Don’t care conditions.
Binary Decision Diagram, AND-Inverter Graph based Decomposition, Finite State Machine
Minimization.
Module- 3
Technology Mapping & Transformation: Introduction, Graph covering and technology
mapping, Choice of base functions, DAG covering problem, Tree covering by dynamic
programming, Pattern matching, Gate Delay models, Logic Transformations and Trends.
Module- 4
Verification Techniques & Equivalence Checking: Introduction to Hardware verification
and methodologies, SAT and ATPG, problem formulation, Combinational Deterministic
ATPG, SAT Algorithms, Search acceleration techniques, Implementation Issues, Temporal
Logic: Introduction and Basic Operations on Temporal Logic, Syntax and Semantics of Computation
Tree Logic (CTL), Equivalence between CTL Formulas.
Module- 5
Static Timing Analysis: Introduction, Basic principle, STA with ideal clocks, flip-flop
behavior analysis using state diagrams, STA using clock jitters, Incremental Timing Analysis,
Statistical Timing Analysis, Interconnects and delay calculation, On-chip variations, Timing
Arc, Setup and Hold time, Setup and Hold violation.
45

--- Page 50 ---
Module- 6
Introduction of Logic Synthesis using Verilog HDL: Structural models of combination logic,
logic simulation, design verification, test methodology, propagation delay, truth table models
of combinational and sequential logic with Verilog modules, ports, gate types, gate delays,
dataflow modelling, continuous assignments delays, expressions, operators, operands, operator
types.
TEXT/REFERENCES:
1. Logic Synthesis and Verification, Soha Hassoun, Tsutomu Sasao, Kluwer Academic
Publisher, 2002.
2. Logic Synthesis and Verification Algorithm, G.D. Hachtel, F. Somenzi, Kluwer
Academic Publisher, 1996.
3. Logic Synthesis, Srinivas Devadas, Kurt Keutzer, Abhijit Ghosh, McGraw-Hill
Professional Publishing.
4. Computer Aided Design and VLSI Device development, Kit Man Cham, SooYoung Oh,
Daeji Chin, John L. Moll, Springer, 2012.
5. M. Huth and M. Ryan, Logic in Computer Science modeling and reasoning about systems,
Cambridge University Press, 2nd Edition, 2004.
6. S. Palnitkar, Verilog HDL: A Guide to Digital Design and Synthesis, Prentice Hall, 2nd
edition, 2003.
COURSE OUTCOME:
After successful completion of the course students are expected to demonstrate knowledge,
skill and abilities in the following areas.
CO1: Student masters the essential knowledge of digital logic design and different methods of
decomposition techniques.
CO2: Students are able to illustrate the technology mapping using two-level, multi-level and
multi-valued logic.
CO3: Students can design algorithms to perform hardware verification and equivalence checking.
CO4: Students can demonstrate the different aspects of static timing analysis.
CO5: Students are able to write the Verilog HDL for digital logic design and verification
purposes.
46

--- Page 51 ---
Mixed Mode VLSI Circuit Design L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
Courses objective:
 To introduce the students to the design principles and performance measures of mixed mode
VLSI circuits.
 To enable the students to solve theoretical and practical problems related to mixed mode VLSI
circuits.
 To enable the students to efficiently analyze and design circuits for mixed mode VLSI Domain.
Course content:
Module1: Mixed-Signal design concepts and performance measures. Switched capacitor
circuit- principles and applications in filter design- design of frequency and Q tunable
continuous time filters. Comparators- Characterization - Two stage comparators - open loop
comparators.
Module 2: Sample and hold and trans-linear circuits: Performance of sample-and-hold
circuits - testing sample and holds, MOS sample-and-hold basics, examples of CMOS S/H
Circuits, bipolar and BiCMOS sample-and-hold, trans-linear gain cell, trans-linear multiplier.
Module 3: Data converter fundamentals - DC and dynamic specifications - quantization
noise - Nyquist rate D/A converters - decoder based converters - binary scaled converters -
thermometer code converters - hybrid converters - Nyquist rate A/D converters - Successive
approximation, Flash, interpolating, Folding, Pipelined, Time-interleaved converters.
Module 4: Phase-locked loop basics; PLL dynamics; frequency synthesis; all-digital PLLs.
Mismatch Issues in Analog Layouts, Introduction to RF IC Design.
Course outcome:
After taking this course
CO1: Students learn the design concepts and performance measures of mixed-mode VLSI design.
CO2: Students gain the concept of circuit design like the filters and comparators.
CO3: Students learn the design concepts of Sample and hold and trans-linear circuits.
CO4: Students learn the design principles related with data converters like the D/A converters and
A/D converters.
CO5: Students learn to analyze and design circuits like the Phase-locked loop.
Essential Reading:
1. R. Jacob Baker, “CMOS Mixed-Signal Circuit Design”, Wiley Inter-Science, 2003.
2. Tony Chan Carusone, David A. Johns, Kenneth W. Martin, “Analog Integrated Circuit Design”,
Wiley, 2011.
47

--- Page 52 ---
Supplementary Reading:
1. R.Gregorian and G.C.Temes, “Analog MOS Integrated Circuits for Signal Processing”, John Wiley
and
Sons, 2004.
2. Rudy van de Plassche, “CMOS integrated Analog- to Digital and Digital to- Analog converters”,
Kluwer academic publishers, 2003.
3. P.E. Allen and D.R.Holberg, “CMOS Analog Circuit Design”, Oxford University Press, 2004.
4. Behzad Razavi, Design of Analog CMOS Integrated Circuits McGraw-Hill International Edition
2016
48

--- Page 53 ---
METAHEURISTIC ALGORITHMS AND L-3 T-0 P-0 3 credits
THEIR APPLICATIONS
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 Understanding computational intelligence techniques and methods, particularly metaheuristic
algorithms for optimization problem
 Learning the use of software tools which are specific for computational intelligence.
 Ability to conduct research activity and to prepare reports on a given topic.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction: Classes of difficult problems (planning, assignment, selection, adaptation, prediction)
and corresponding search spaces, classes of metaheuristics, overall structure of a metaheuristic
algorithm.
Module-2
Overview of Heuristic and Meta-Heuristic Search: Deterministic local search (Pattern Search,
Nelder Mead), Random local search (Matyas and Solis-Wets algorithms), Global search (restarted local
search, iterated local search, simulated annealing, tabu search, variable neighbourhood search etc).
Module-3
Population-based metaheuristics: Overall structure, Main components (exploration and exploitation
operators), Operators for evolutionary algorithms: mutation, crossover, selection, Encoding types,
Genetic algorithms, evolution strategies, evolutionary programming, genetic programming. Swarm
Intelligence: Ant colony optimization, Particle swarm optimization, Artificial bee colony. Difference-
based and Probabilistic Algorithms: Differential Evolution, Population Based Incremental Learning,
Estimation of Distribution Algorithms, Bayesian Optimization Algorithms.
Module-4
Scalability of Metaheuristic Algorithms: Cooperative coevolution, Parallel models for population-
based metaheuristics
Multi-objective/ multi-modal/ dynamic optimization: Particularities of multi-objective optimization
(non-domination, Pareto front etc), Apriori and aposteriori techniques, Quality metrics, Multi-modal
optimization and specific approaches (niching, sharing etc), Techniques for dynamic optimization
(hyper-mutation, random immigrants, ageing mechanisms).
Applications of metaheuristic algorithms in engineering problem solving.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. Mohammad Solgi, Hugo A. Loáiciga, Omid Bozorg-Haddad, Meta-heuristic and Evolutionary
Algorithms for Engineering Optimization, Wiley
2 Ke-Lin Du, M. N. S. Swamy, Search and Optimization by Metaheuristics: Techniques and
Algorithms Inspired by Nature, Birkhauser
3. Xin-She Yang, Nature-Inspired Optimization Algorithms, Elsevier
49

--- Page 54 ---
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Present basic principles of metaheuristic techniques.
CO2: Identify & apply the appropriate technique to a given problem.
CO3: Implement and validate a computational model based on metaheuristic algorithms
CO4: Present examples of metaheuristics for global, multi-modal, multi-criteria and dynamic
optimization.
CO5: Solve a real-world problem using computational intelligence tools.
50