
--- Page 1 ---
Detail Syllabus
M.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering
With specialization in
Artificial Intelligence
Under Computer Science and Engineering Department, NIT Agartala
Major Area / Department: Computer Science and Engineering
Specialization: Artificial Intelligence
Updated on: 6th September 2021
Department
Institute
National Institute of
Computer Science and Engineering Department
Technology Agartala
APJ Abdul kalam Block
NIT Agartala, Agartala,Tripura(West), India,799046
P.O: NIT Agartala,Tripura(West), India,799046
Tel.: (0381) 234 6630 / 234 8511
Fax : (0381) 234 6360
Email: nita.director@gmail.com
http://www.nita.ac.in
1

--- Page 2 ---
Title of Curriculum
M.Tech in Artificial Intelligence as specialization
Under Computer Science and Engineering Department, NIT Agartala
Objectives of the AI Specialization
In the recent decades, artificial intelligence, popularly known as AI, has received much attention for
its wide-spread applications in real-world problems of diverse domains. AI is a very broad field of
study falling under the rubric of Computer Science that aims at solving computationally hard
problems by mimicking human-like and biologically inspired approaches. Theoretical aspects of AI
include logic and reasoning, machine learning (ML), intelligent search, intelligent planning,
coordination and perception. In recent times, ML is receiving much popularity for its scope of
handshaking with emerging areas like Data Science, Cognitive Science and Robotics.
This program would provide students an opportModuley to learn both foundation and experimental
components of AI and Machine Learning. A student, on completion of this program, will be able to
undertake industry careers involving innovation and problem-solving using Artificial Intelligence (AI)
and Machine Learning (ML) technologies and research careers in AI, ML, and Data Science, in
general. Along with courses that provide specialization in AI, students will also have option to explore
some applied domains such as computer vision, natural language processing, robotics, and software
analysis.
Major aspects of the programme,
1) Theoretical foundations: This will include the mathematical background required for the
subjects.
2) Application of Theory: This will include courses where the fundamentals and advanced
concepts (subjects) could be implemented.
3) Thesis/Project Work: Covering the application of the concepts learned or research,
oriented work.
The programme is able to:
1. Build mathematical foundations for studying AI. (Core subjects)
2. Once the foundations are built, give options to the students to choose their domain of
interest (Computer Vision, Speech, Text, Robotics etc.) so that they can apply the concepts
learned. (Elective subjects).
• Annexure ,I
Detail Syllabus
Class room available YES
Labs available YES
Number of existing Faculty in the areas of Artificial Intelligence and 8
allied fields in NITA CSE Department
Duration of Program 2 year (4 Semester)
10
Total Number of Intake
Existing institute rules
Academic eligibility
for MTech Program
2

--- Page 3 ---
Vision
To be an academic leader in the areas of Computer Science and Engineering, Information
Technology and other potential of Computer Science with worldwide recognition.
Mission
1) Provide high quality graduate educational programs in Computer Science and
Engineering.
2) Contribute significantly to the research and the discovery of new knowledge and
methods in computing.
3) Offer expertise, resource and service to the community.
4) To retain the present faculty members by providing opportunities for professional
development.
Program Educational Objectives (PEO’s)
PEO-1: To impart advance theoretical and practical Knowledge, enhance skills to design, test
and adapt new computing technologies for attaining professional excellence and leading
successful career in industries and academia.
PEO-2: To develop the ability to critically think, analyze and offer techno-commercially feasible
and socially acceptable solutions to computational problems, attaining professional excellence
and carrying research. & Development (R&D) effectively.
PEO-3: To work collaboratively on development of innovative systems and optimized solutions
on multidisciplinary domains, and exhibit high levels of professional and ethical values within
organization and society globally.
PEO-4: To develop design thinking capabilities for innovation and entrepreneurship
development.
Program Specific Objectives (PSO’s)
PSO-1: To understand the evolutionary changes in computing, apply standard practices and
strategies to promote research and development for innovative career paths and meet future
challenges.
PSO-2: The ability to incorporate contemporary and evolving computational problem-solving
techniques for lifelong learning support leading to higher studies and entrepreneurship
development.
PSO-3: To inculcate knowledge with moral values and professional ethics, to act as a
responsible citizen.
3

--- Page 4 ---
Program Outcomes (PO’s)
PO1: To develop the ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, engineering sciences for
conducting independent research/investigation for solving practical problems.
PO2: To develop the ability to identify, formulate, conduct experiments, interpret data,
synthesize information, and analyse engineering problems by writing and presenting an
effective technical report/document.
PO3: To develop the ability to demonstrate mastery over the area as per the program's
specialisation. The knowledge should be at a level higher than the requirements in the
appropriate bachelor's program.
PO4: To develop problem-solving ability to design solutions for complex engineering problems
in the context of societal and environmental commitments.
PO5: To demonstrate the capability of functioning effectively as a member or team leader in
software projects considering multidisciplinary environments, thus solving real-world
multifaceted problems.
PO6: To develop design thinking capabilities for innovation and contribute to technological
knowledge and intellectual property development.
4

--- Page 5 ---
Detail Syllabus
M.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering
With specialization in
Artificial Intelligence
Under Computer Science and Engineering Department, NIT Agartala
Major Area / Department: Computer Science and Engineering
Specialization: Artificial Intelligence
Department
Institute
National Institute of
Computer Science and Engineering Department
Technology Agartala
APJ Abdul kalam Block
NIT Agartala, Agartala,Tripura(West), India,799046
P.O: NIT Agartala,Tripura(West), India,799046
Tel.: (0381) 234 6630 / 234 8511 Fax : (0381) 234 6360
Email: nita.director@gmail.com
http://www.nita.ac.in 5

--- Page 6 ---
Course structure for M.Tech in
Artificial Intelligence
Department of CSE, NIT Agartala
Semester Subject L T P Cr. Class Marks
Hours
per
week
1 1. Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms 3 1 0 4 4 100
2. Artificial Intelligence 3 1 0 4 4 100
3. Computational Methods of Optimization 3 1 0 4 4 100
4. Elective, I 4 0 0 4 4 100
i) Stochastic Models and Applications
ii) Natural Language Processing
iii) Soft computing
iv) Data Mining
v) Pattern Recognition
5. Elective, II 4 0 0 4 4 100
i) Expert Systems
ii) Computer Vision
iii) Wireless Communication Network
iv) Information Retrieval
v) AI for Cyber Security
6. Laboratory I (Advanced Data Structures and 0 0 2 2 3 100
Algorithms)
7. Laboratory II (Artificial Intelligence) 0 0 2 2 3 100
8. Seminar 0 0 1 1 2 100
17 3 5 25 28 800
Total
2 1. Robotics and automation 3 1 0 4 4 100
2. Machine Learning 3 1 0 4 4 100
3. Computational Linear Algebra 3 1 0 4 4 100
4. Elective, III 4 0 0 4 4 100
i) Agent based intelligent system
ii) Deep learning
iii) Data Visualization
iv) Human Computer Interaction
v) Embedded and Realtime System
5. Laboratory- I (Robotics and Automation Lab) 0 0 2 2 3 100
6. Laboratory-II(Machine Learning) 0 0 2 2 3 100
7. Project Preliminaries 0 0 3 3 6 100
8. Comprehensive Viva 0 0 2 2 0 100
13 3 9 25 28 800
Total
6

--- Page 7 ---
Semester Subject L T P Cr. Class Marks
Hours
per
week
3 Project and Thesis Work- I 0 0 10 10 FULL 100
*Students may go for industrial or inter institute
collaboration, based Project work for 6 months to 1
year. The DPPC and concerned local guide may be
empowered to recommend such provision.
All existing academic rules of institute will prevail.
The exact modalities may be recommended by
DPPC.
Total 0 0 10 10 100
Semester Subject L T P Cr. Class Marks
Hours
per
week
4 Project and Thesis Work- II 0 0 20 20 FULL 300
*Students may go for industrial or inter institute
collaboration, based Project work for 6 months
to 1 year. The DPPC and concerned local guide
may be empowered to recommend such
provision.
All existing academic rules of institute will
prevail. The exact modalities may be
recommended by DPPC.
Total 0 0 20 20
Cumulative credit of the course
Semester-I 17 3 5 25 28 800
Semester -II 13 3 9 25 28 800
Semester - 0 0 10 10 Full 100
III
Semester -IV 0 0 20 20 Full 300
Total 30 6 44 80 2000
7

--- Page 8 ---
Program Outcome for the M Tech. AI
PO1: To develop the ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, engineering sciences for conducting
independent research/investigation for solving practical problems.
PO2: To develop the ability to identify, formulate, conduct experiments, interpret data, synthesise information,
and analyse engineering problems by writing and presenting an effective technical report/document.
PO3: To develop the ability to demonstrate mastery over the area as per the program's specialisation. The
knowledge should be at a level higher than the requirements in the appropriate bachelor's program.
PO4: To develop problem-solving ability to design solutions for complex engineering problems in the context of
societal and environmental commitments.
PO5: To demonstrate the capability of functioning effectively as a member or team leader in software projects
considering multidisciplinary environments, thus solving real-world multifaceted problems.
PO6: To develop design thinking capabilities for innovation and contribute to technological knowledge and
intellectual property development.
8

--- Page 9 ---
Annexure, I
Detail Syllabus
Course structure for M.Tech in Artificial Intelligence
Department of CSE, NIT Agartala
Semester I
1.1 Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms
L T P
3 ,1, 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objective:
1. The course is intended to provide the foundations of the practical implementation and usage of Algorithms
and Data Structures.
2. One objective is to ensure that the student evolves into a competent programmer capable of designing and
analyzing implementations of algorithms and data structures for different kinds of problems.
3. Another objective is to expose the student to the algorithm analysis techniques, to the theory of reductions,
and to the classification of problems into complexity classes.
Detailed syllabus:
MODULE I
Introduction to advanced data structures, Fundamentals of the analysis of algorithms, Algorithms,
Performance analysis- time complexity and space complexity, Asymptotic Notation-Big Oh, Omega and
Theta notations, Complexity Analysis Examples. Data structures-Linear and non linear data structures,
ADT concept, Linear List ADT, Recurrences: The substitution method, Recursive tree method, Masters
Method, Probabilistic analysis, Amortized analysis, Randomized algorithms, Mathematical aspects and
analysis of algorithms.
MODULE II
Divide and Conquertechnique, Binary search tree ,AVL-trees, red-black trees, B and B+-trees, Finding
the minimum and maximum, Merge sort, Quick sort, Strassen’s matrix multiplication.Splay
Trees,Binomial Heaps,Fibonacci Heaps, Application of k-d tree (k-dimensional tree) in range searches
and nearest neighbor searches.
MODULE III
Greedy algorithms: Introduction, Knapsack problem, Job sequencing with deadlines, Minimum cost
spanning trees, Kruskal’s algorithm, Prim’s algorithm, Optimal storage on tapes, Optimal merge pattern,
Subset cover problem, Container loading or Bin packing problem.
MODULE IV
Dynamic algorithms: Introduction Dynamic algorithms, All pair shortest path, 0/1 knapsack, Travelling
salesman problem, Coin Changing Problem, Matrix Chain Multiplication, Flow shop scheduling,
Optimal binary search tree (OBST), Analysis of All problems, Introduction to NP-Hard And NP-
Complete Problems
More algorithms: Dynamic programming, graph algorithms: DFS, BFS, topological sorting, shortest path
algorithms, network flow problems.
MODULE IV
String Matching: The naïve string matching algorithm, Rabin Karp algorithm, KnuthMorrisPratt
algorithm (KMP), longest common subsequence (LCS), Fractional cascading, suffix trees, geometric
algorithms.
9

--- Page 10 ---
References:
1. Introduction to algorithms: Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest and Stein (Main textbook)
2. Algorithm Design: Kleinberg and Tardos
5. Data structures and algorithm analysis in C++(Java): Mark Weiss
6. Data structures and algorithms: Aho, Hopcroft and Ullman
7. S. Sahni, Data Structures, Algorithms, and Applications in C++, Silicon Press
To establish the correlation between COs & POs and Cos & PSOs
Table 1(Cos)
No. of Course
Course Outcome
Outcome (CO)
Basic ability to analyze algorithms and to determine algorithm correctness and time
CO1
Efficiency class.
Master a variety of advanced abstract data type (ADT) and data structures and their
CO2
implementations.
Master different algorithm design techniques (brute‐force, divide and conquer,
CO3
greedy, etc
Ability to apply and implement learned algorithm design techniques and data
CO4
structures to solve problem.
CO5 Ability to crawl information and explain different types of search algorithms.
TABLE 2
CO-PO Matrices & CO-PSO Mapping of course
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 1 1 1 3 1 3
CO2 2 3 3 1 2 3
CO3 2 2 2 2 3 2
CO4 3 3 1 3 3 2
Total 8 9 7 9 9 10
Average 2 2.25 1.75 2.25 2.25 2.5
EqAvg
Attainment 2 2 1 2 2 2
10

--- Page 11 ---
1.2 Artificial Intelligence
L T P
3 , 1 , 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objectives
1. To impart knowledge about Artificial Intelligence.
2. To give understanding of the main abstractions and reasoning for intelligent systems.
3. To enable the students to understand the basic principles of Artificial Intelligence in various
applications.
Detailed syllabus:
MODULE I
Introduction to AI and intelligent agents, Problem Solving: Solving Problems by Searching, heuristic
search techniques, constraint satisfaction problems, stochastic search methods, Game playing: min max,
alpha beta pruning, Knowledge and Reasoning: Building a Knowledge Base: Propositional logic, first
order Logic, situation calculus, Theorem Proving in First Order Logic.
MODULE II
Uncertain Knowledge and Reasoning, Overview of Probability Theory, Bayes Networks, Undirected
Graphical Models, Template Based Representations, Exact Inference: Variable Elimination, Clique
Trees, Belief Propagation, Tree Construction, Baye’s Theorem, Dempster-Shafer theory of evidence.
MODULE III
Introduction to Optimization, Approximate Inference: Sampling, Markov Chains, Maximum A posteriori
Probability (MAP) Inference, Inference in Temporal Models, Introduction to learning graphical models,
Parameter Estimation, Bayesian Networks and Shared Parameters.
MODULE IV
Learning: Overview of different forms of learning, Learning Decision Trees, Statistical learning methods,
k-nearest neighbor algorithm, Naïve Bayes classifier, Decision Problems
MODULE V
Neural Networks, ANN, McCulloch Pitts Model, Perceptron Network. Foundations of Convolutional
Neural Networks. Implement the foundational layers of CNNs (pooling, convolutions). Introduction to
Deep Reinforcement Learning, Generative Adversarial Nets, Conditional GAN, Super-Resolution GAN,
CycleGAN.
MODULE VI
Fuzzy Logic: operations of Fuzzy sets, Variables inference techniques, defuzzification techniques, basic
Fuzzy interference algorithm, application of fuzzy logic , Fuzzy system design implementation.
Text book:
Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing by Amit Konar, CRC Press, Taylor and Francis
Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach by S.Russell and P. Norvig.
Reference Books
Nils J. Nilsson, Artificial Intelligence: A New Sythesis, Morgan,Kaufmann.
Probabilistic Graphical Models, by Daphne Koller and Nir Friedman, MIT Press.
References:
Neural Network Design, Hagan, Demuth and Beale, Vikas PublishingHouse
11

--- Page 12 ---
Fundamentals of Artificial Neural Networks, Mohamad H Hassoum.PHI
Fuzzy Set Theory & its Applica tion, H.J. Zimmerman Allied PublishedLtd.
Course Outcomes
CO-No. Course Outcome Module
Covered
1 Solve basic AI based problems and construct logical building blocks for
problem formulation. I,II
2 Acquaint with Knowledge Representation and decision under
uncordiality. II, III
3 Apply Optimization and inferencing with available knowledge.
III
4 Pragmatic approach of Machine learning and fuzzy knowledge
representation. III,IV,VI
5 Apply AI techniques to real-world problems to develop intelligent systems.
IV,V
6 Select appropriately from a range of techniques when implementing
intelligent system V
CO-PO Mapping (Rate: scale of 1 to 3)
Course PO-1 PO-2 PO-3 PO-4 PO-5 PO-6
Outcome
CO-1 1 1 1 2 1 2
CO-2 2 2 1 2 2 2
CO-3 2 2 2 1 2 3
CO-4 2 3 2 3 2 3
CO-5 3 3 3 3 3 3
CO-6 3 3 3 3 3 3
Total 13 14 12 14 13 16
Average 2.16 2.33 2 2.33 2.16 2.66
Attainment 2 2 2 2 2 2
Where Levels: 1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO
CORELATION “--”
12

--- Page 13 ---
1.3 Computational Methods of Optimization
L T P
3 , 1 , 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objectives
During the course, students will:
1. learn how to pose optimization problems.
2. learn how to transform those problems into hopefully simpler-to-solve problems.
3. learn how to solve problems by using different algorithms.
4. learn how much time such algorithms would need.
5. we will also cover some recent techniques in optimization with broad applicability.
Detailed syllabus:
MODULE I
Classification and general theory of optimization. Linear Programming (LP): Introduction to LP and
formulation of Linear Programming problems, geometric ideas, simplex and revised simplex methods,
duality and sensitivity, interior-point methods for LP problems.
MODULE II
Graphical solution method, alternative or multiple optimal solutions, Unbounded solutions, Infeasible
solutions, Maximization , Simplex Algorithm, Minimization , Two phase method, Duality in linear
programming, Integer linear programming.
MODULE III
Transportation & Assignment Problems: Introduction to Transportation problems, various methods of
Transportation problem, Variations in Transportation problem, introduction to Assignment problems,
variations in Assignment problems.
MODULE IV
Nonlinear optimization, method of Lagrange multipliers, Karush-Kuhn-Tucker theory, numerical
methods for nonlinear optimization, convex optimization, quadratic optimization; Dynamic
programming.
MODULE V
Queuing Models: Concepts relating to queuing systems, basic elements of queuing model, role of Poison
& exponential distribution, concepts of birth and death process.
Replacement & Maintenance Models: Replacement of items, subject to deterioration of items subject to
random failure group vs. individual replacement policies.
Simulation: Introduction & steps of simulation method, distribution functions and random number
generation.
Text Books:
1. Jasbir. Arora , Introduction to optimum Design, Elsevier
2. Singeresu S. Rao, "Engineering Optimization , Theory and Practice" New Age Intl. Ltd., Publishers.
References:
Handy A Taha, Operations Research , An Introduction, Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi.
13

--- Page 14 ---
Hillier F S and Lieberman G J, Operations Research, Holden Day Inc., San Francisco.
Payne T A, Quantitative Techniques for Management: A Practical Approach, Reston Publishing Co.
Inc., Virginia.
Course Outcomes
CO-No. Course Outcome
1 Solve basic Linear programming problems and construct simplex method
solutions.
2 Acquaint with Knowledge Representation and decision under
uncordiality.
3 Apply Optimization and inferencing with available knowledge.
4 Pragmatic approach of Machine learning and fuzzy knowledge
representation.
5 Apply AI techniques to real-world problems to develop intelligent systems.
6 Select appropriately from a range of techniques when implementing
intelligent system
CO-PO Mapping (Rate: scale of 1 to 3)
Course PO-1 PO-2 PO-3 PO-4 PO-5 PO-6
Outcome
CO-1 1 1 1 2 1 2
CO-2 2 2 1 2 2 2
CO-3 2 2 2 1 2 3
CO-4 2 3 2 3 2 3
CO-5 3 3 3 3 3 3
CO-6 3 3 3 3 3 3
Total 13 14 12 14 13 16
Average 2.16 2.33 2 2.33 2.16 2.66
Attainment 2 2 2 2 2 2
Where Levels: 1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO
CORELATION “--”
14

--- Page 15 ---
Semester I- Elective
1.4.i) Stochastic Models and Applications
L T P
4 , 0 , 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objectives
1. Understand the need for system models that capture random behavior to assess the risk of
undesirable outcomes.
2. Be able to model a number of important industrial and service systems and analyze those models to
improve system performance.
3. Be able to construct algorithmic solution strategies to explore system models that have been
developed.
MODULE I
Introductory Probability: Defining Random Variables (RVs) Events, Measurability, Independence
Sample Spaces, Events, Measures, Probability, Independence, Conditional probability, Bayes’ theorem
Random Variables. RVs: Bernoulli, Binomial, Geometric, Poisson, Uniform, Exponential, Normal,
Lognormal, Expectations, Moments and Moment generating functions Random Vectors. Random
Vectors: Joint and Marginal distributions, Dependence, Covariance, Copulas, Transformations of random
vectors, Order statistics.
MODULE II
Intermediate Probability: Manipulating RVs Conditioning RVs. Conditional Distribution of a RV,
Computing probabilities and expectations by conditioning, RVs Distributions.
Inequalities: Markov, Chebyshev, Jensen, Holder, Convergence of RVs: Weak and Strong laws, Central
limit theorem, Distributions of extreme.
MODULE III
Stochastic Processes: Indexing RVs Markov Chains, Markovian property and Transition probabilities,
Irreducibility and Steady, State probabilities.
Generic Applications: Hidden Markov Chains Exponential Distribution and Poisson Process,
Construction of Poisson Process from Exponential Distribution, Thinning and Conditional Arrival Times,
Service Applications: Waiting Times Normal Distribution and Brownian Process, Construction of
Brownian Process from Normal Distribution, Hitting Times and Maximum Values, Finance
Applications: Option Pricing and Arbitrage Theorem
References:
Introduction to Stochastic Processes. S.M. Ross.
Adventures in Stochastic Processes. S. Resnick. Birkhauser
Comparison Methods for Stochastic Models and Risks. A. Muller and D. Stoyan. John Wiley & Sons
Mathematical Theoy of Reliability. R.E. Barlow and F. Proschan.
15

--- Page 16 ---
To establish the correlation between COs & POs and Cos & PSOs
Table 1(Cos)
No. of Course Outcome (CO) Course Outcome
Students would acquire a rigorous understanding of basic concepts in
CO1
probability theory.
Learn some important concepts concerning multiple random
CO2
variables such as Bayes rule for random variables,
conditional expectation and its uses etc.
CO3 Explain and work on stochastic processes, including Markov Chains
and Poisson Processes.
TABLE 2
CO-PO Matrices & CO-PSO Mapping of course
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 1 1 3 1 3 1
CO2 2 3 3 2 3 2
CO3 3 3 2 2 2 2
Total 6 7 8 5 8 5
Average 2 2.33 2.67 1.67 2.67 1.67
EqAvg
Attainment 2 2 2 1 2 1
16

--- Page 17 ---
1.4.ii) Natural Language Processing
L T P
4 , 0 , 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objective:
1. Teach students the leading trends and systems in natural language processing.
2. Make them understand the concepts of morphology, syntax, semantics and pragmatics of the
language and that they are able to give the appropriate examples that will illustrate the
mentioned concepts in the syllabus.
3. Teach them to recognize the significance of pragmatics for natural language understanding.
4. Enable students to be capable to describe the application based on natural language processing
and to show the points of syntactic, semantic and pragmatic processing.
Detailed syllabus:
MODULE I
Sound: Biology of Speech Processing; Place and Manner of Articulation; Word Boundary Detection;
Argmax based computations; HMM and Speech Recognition.
MODULE II
Words and Word Forms : Morphology fundamentals; Morphological Diversity of Indian Languages;
Morphology Paradigms; Finite State Machine Based Morphology; Automatic Morphology Learning;
Shallow Parsing; Named Entities; Maximum Entropy Models; Random Fields.
MODULE III
Structures : Theories of Parsing, Parsing Algorithms; Robust and Scalable Parsing on Noisy Text as in
Web documents; Hybrid of Rule Based and Probabilistic Parsing; Scope Ambiguity and Attachment
Ambiguity resolution.
MODULE IV
Meaning and pragmatics: Lexical Knowledge Networks, Wordnet Theory; Indian Language Wordnets
and Multilingual Dictionaries; Semantic Roles; Word Sense Disambiguation; WSD and
Multilinguality; Metaphors; Coreferences. Discourse, Dialogue and Conversational agents, Natural
Language Generation, Machine Translation.
MODULE V
Web 2.0 Applications: Sentiment Analysis; Text Entailment; Robust and Scalable Machine Translation;
Question Answering in Multilingual Setting; Cross Lingual Information Retrieval (CLIR).
References:
1. Speech and Language Processing by Daniel Jurafsky, James H. Martin, Second Edition, Prentice
Hall
2. James Allen, "Natural Language Understanding", 2/E, Addison-Wesley, 1994
3. Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing by Christopher D. Manning, Hinrich
Schutze, MIT Press.
4. Statistical Language Learning by Charniack, Eugene, MIT Press, 1993.
5. The Handbook of Computational Linguistics and Natural Language Processing, Alexander Clark,
Chris Fox, Shalom Lappin.
6. Steven Bird, Natural Language Processing with Python, 1st Edition, O'Reilly, 2009.
17

--- Page 18 ---
Table-1
Course Course Outcome
Outcome No
CO1 Understand the fundamental concept of NLP, Regular Expression, Finite State
Automata along with the concept and application of word tokenization,
normalization, sentence segmentation, word extraction, spell checking in the context
of NLP.
CO2 Understand the concept of Morphology such as Inflectional and Derivational
Morphology and different morphological parsing techniques and scope of ambiguity
and it’s resolution.
CO3 Understand the concepts of pragmatics, lexical semantics, lexical dictionary such as
WordNet, lexical computational semantics, distributional word similarity and
concepts related to the field of Information Retrieval in the context of NLP.
CO4 Understand the concepts of Semantic Roles; Word Sense Disambiguation;
Multilinguality; Metaphors; Coreferences. Discourse, Dialogue and Conversational
agents, Natural Language Generation, Machine Translation.
CO5 Understand the concepts related to language modeling with introduction to N-grams,
chain rule, smoothing, spelling and word prediction and their evaluation along with
the concept of Markov chain, HMM, Forward and Viterbi algorithm, POS tagging.
CO6 Describe and apply concepts of discourse machine translation, summarization and
question answering to solve problems in NLP.
Table2
CO-PO Matrices; CO-PSO Mapping of course
1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION “--”
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 1 1 1 1 1 1
CO2 2 2 2 2 1 2
CO3 2 2 3 2 1 3
CO4 2 3 3 3 3 3
CO5 3 3 3 3 3 3
CO6 3 3 3 3 3 3
Total 13 14 15 14 12 15
Average 2.16 2.3 2.5 2.3 2 2.5
Eq. Average Attainment 2 2 3 2 2 3
18

--- Page 19 ---
1.4.iii) Soft Computing
L T P
Prerequisites: None
4 , 0 , 0 : 4 Credits
Course Outcomes:
CO1: Develops students' skill in neuro-fuzzy engines to handle machine learning in presence of
uncertainty.
CO2: Provides solution to real world problems with approximate reasoning using fuzzy logic.
CO3: Instills the scope of optimization in engineering design using evolutionary computation.
CO4: Demonstrates the scope of the subject in all aspects of science, humanities and engineering.
CO5: Emphasizes the necessity of soft techniques in engineering industry, where mathematically hard
techniques are difficult to realize in absence of sufficient data.
MODULE I
Introduction to Fuzzy sets, Fuzzy t- and s- norms, projection, cylindrical extension, Fuzzy relations,
Implication relations, Fuzzy relational equations, Possibilistic reasoning, Fuzzy pattern recognition,
Introduction to Fuzzy control and Fuzzy databases.
MODULE II
Boltzmann machine and Mean field learning-Combinational optimization problems using recurrent
Neural network. Competitive Learning, Self organizing maps, Growing cell structure Principal
component analysis.
MODULE III
Biological vs. artificial neurons, McCulloch and Pitts Model, Perceptron as linear classifier, Supervised
learning: Perceptron learning algorithm, Steepest descent learning and backpropagation algorithm,
Radial basis function neural net. Unsupervised learning: Hopfield neural net, Self-organizing feature map
neural net, Competitive neural learning, Reinforcement learning: Q-learning and temporal difference Q-
learning, Support vector machine (SVM), Kernelized SVM, Learning vector quantization.
MODULE IV
Genetic Algorithm: Binary and real codes, Genetic programming, Particle swarm optimization,
Differential Evolution, Bacterial Foraging
MODULE V
Hybridization of neuro-fuzzy, neuro-GA, neuro-swarm, neuro-evolution algorithms. Applications in
Pattern Recognition, Robotics, and Image Processing.
MODULE VI
Reinforcement Learning: Q-Learning and Learning Automata, Deterministic Q-Learning, Stochastic Q-
Learning, Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning and Planning, Nash and Other equilibrium based multi-
agent Learning and Planning.
19

--- Page 20 ---
MODULE VII
Belief Networks: Pearl's Model for Distributed Approach of Belief Propagation and Revision in a causal
network, Concepts of D-separation, Bayesian Belief Networks, Dempster-Shafer theory for Orthogonal
summation of Beliefs, Data Fusion techniques, Uncertainty management using Belief Networks.
MODULE VIII
Visual Perception: Marr's 2 and 1/2 Dimensional Vision, 3-D Vision, Camera Model, Perspective
Projection Geometry, Inverse Perspective Projection Geometry, 3D Reconstruction from 2D Images by
Kalman Filter and other Prediction Algorithms.
MODULE IX
Linguistic Perception: Parse Tree and Automata Based syntactic prediction of Natural Languages, Syntax
and Semantics based Language understanding Models, Language Learning Models.
MODULE X
Deep Learning: Convolution Neural Networks, Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM) Models, Deep
Recurrent Neural Networks. Applications in automated feature extraction in images and high dimensional
data.
MODULE XI
Advanced Models of Reasoning: Soundness and Completeness issues of Resolution based Proof
procedures in propositional and predicate logic, Herbrand's theorem and Lifting Lemma, Herbrand
interpretation, Temporal Logic, Reasoning with Space and Time, Distributed Models of Reasoning using
Petri Nets, and other graph theoretic approaches.
Text Books:
1. Computational Intelligence: Principles, Techniques, and Applications by A. Konar, Springer 2005
2. Computational Intelligence by A. P. Engelbrecht
References:
1. Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing: Behavioral and Cognitive Modeling of the Human
Brain by A. Konar, CRC Press, 2018.
2. Multi-Agent Coordination: A Reinforcement Learning Approach by A. K. Sadhu and A. Konar, Wiley-
IEEE Press, 2021.
3. D. E. Goldberg, Genetic Algorithms in Search Optimization and Machine Learning, Addison
Wesley,3rd edition.
4. S. Haykin, Neural Networks: A comprehensive foundation, Pearson, 1999.
Course Outcomes
CO 1: Develops students' skill in neuro-fuzzy engines to handle machine learning in presence of
uncertainty.
CO 2: Provides solution to real world problems with approximate reasoning using fuzzy logic.
CO 3: Instills the scope of optimization in engineering design using evolutionary computation.
CO 4: Demonstrates the scope of the subject in all aspects of science, humanities and engineering.
CO 5: Emphasizes the necessity of soft techniques in engineering industry, where mathematically hard
techniques are difficult to realize in absence of sufficient data.
20

--- Page 21 ---
TABLE 2: CO-PO Mapping
1: Slight(LOW) 2: Moderate(MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION-“-“
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 3 3 2 3 2 2
CO2 2 2 3 2 1 2
CO3 3 3 2 2 2 2
CO4 2 2 2 2 2 3
CO5 3 3 3 3 3 3
Total 13 13 12 12 10 12
Average 2.6 2.6 2.4 2.4 2 2.4
Equivalent
Average
2 2 2
3 3 2
Attainment
21

--- Page 22 ---
1.4.iv) Data Mining
L T P
3 , 0 , 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objectives:
1. To understand Data Mining in Knowledge discovery process, and its applications.
2. To understand different data attribute types and apply different data preprocessing techniques.
3. To understand how to identify association among data objects by learning various association
mining algorithms.
4. To understand the various classification techniques, their applications in different domains.
5. To understand the various clustering techniques, their applications in different domains.
6. To learn various data visualization techniques for data analysis.
Detailed syllabus:
MODULE I
Introduction: Data Mining, Motivation, Application, Data Mining—On What Kind of Data?, Data
Mining Functionalities, Data Mining Task Primitives, Major Issues in Data Mining.
Data pre-processing: Attribute types, Similarity & Dissimilarity measures.
MODULE II
Data Preprocessing: Data Cleaning, Data Integration, Data Reduction, Data Transformation &
Discretization.
MODULE III
Mining Frequent Patterns: Basic Algorithms, Association Rule Mining, Apriori Algorithm, FP tree
growth Algorithm, Advanced Pattern Mining Techniques.
MODULE IV
Classification Techniques: Decision Tree, Bayes Classification, Bayesian Belief Networks, Support
Vector Machines, Classification Evaluation Techniques, Classification Accuracy improvement
Techniques.
MODULE V
Clustering Techniques: Partitioning algorithms, Hierarchical algorithms, Density-Based algorithms,
Grid-Based algorithms, Evaluation of Clustering. Outlier Detection Techniques.
MODULE VI
Applications and Trends in Data Mining: Applications, Advanced Techniques, Web Mining, Web
Content Mining, Structure Mining.
Text Books:
J. Han and M. Kamber. Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques. 3rd Edition, Morgan Kaufman.
Pang Ning Tan, Introduction to Data Mining, 2nd Edition, Pearson.
M. H. Dunham. Data Mining: Introductory and Advanced Topics. Pearson Education.
Roiger & Geatz, Data Mining, Pearson Education
A.K.Pujari, Data Mining, University Press
22

--- Page 23 ---
References Books:
1) Charu C. Aggarwal, Data Mining: The Text Book, Springer.
2) I. H. Witten and E. Frank. Data Mining: Practical Machine Learning Tools and Techniques. Morgan
Kaufmann.
2) D. Hand, H. Mannila and P. Smyth. Principles of Data Mining. Prentice, Hall.
Course Outcomes (CO):
Table1
Course Outcome
Course Outcome
No.
Students will be able to interpret the contribution of data mining in
CO1
Knowledge discovery process.
Students will be able to identify different data attribute types and
CO2
apply different data preprocessing techniques.
Students will be able to apply the link analysis and frequent item-
CO3
set algorithms to identify the entities on the real-world data.
Students will be able to apply the various classification and
CO4 clustering algorithms for supervised and unsupervised learning
problems.
Students will be able to apply various data visualization techniques
CO5
for in-depth data analysis.
Students will be able to apply the advanced data mining techniques
CO6
and use the popular data mining tools.
CO-PO Mapping:
Table2
Levels: 1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION “-
-”
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 2 2 2 1 1 --
CO2 2 2 2 -- -- --
CO3 3 2 3 1 -- --
CO4 3 3 3 1 2 1
CO5 3 3 3 1 2 1
CO6 3 3 3 1 3 2
Total 16 15 16 5 8 4
Average Attainment 2.7 2.5 2.7 0.8 1.3 0.7
Equivalent Average 3 3 3 1 1 1
Attainment
23

--- Page 24 ---
1.4.v) PATTERN RECOGNITION
L T P
Prerequisites: None
3 - 1 - 0 : 4 Credits
Course Objectives:
This course covers the techniques and gain proficiency of pattern recognition that are fundamental to a wide
variety of application areas such as medical research, biometrics, computer vision, etc.
Detailed Syllabus:
MODULE I: Introduction
Pattern recognition basis, Pattern Recognition problems and System Design, and learning (supervised,
unsupervised), training and test sets, feature selection, Dimensionality Reduction.
MODULE II: Supervised learning and classification
Discriminant functions and decision boundaries Linear discriminant functions, relaxation procedure, non-
separable behaviour Minimum distance classifier. Bayesian decision theory. Maximum likelihood classification.
Parameter estimation, sufficient statistics, component analysis and discriminants (PCA, Fisher’s) Nonparametric
techniques. Density estimation, Parzen window, K-NN estimation, Supervised neural learning: Back-propagation
algorithm, Radial basis-function neural net; Linear Classifier-Support vector machine classifier, Learning vector
quantization
MODULE III: Unsupervised learning and clustering
Data description and clustering –, similarity measures, criterion for clustering, Methods of clustering - Sequential
and hierarchical Clustering, graph theoretic, density based, k-means, k-mediod, fuzzy c-means clustering, Vector
Quantization, Cluster validity
MODULE IV: Feature extraction and feature selection
Problems of dimensionality- Feature extraction --PCA-Feature selection –Karhunen Loeve, stochastic
approximation, kernel approximation, divergence measures, Independent component analysis
Text Books:
1. R. O. Duda, P. E. Hart and D. G. Stork, Pattern Classification and Scene Analysis, 2nd ed., Wiley, New
York, 2000.
2. J. T. Tou and R. C. Gonzalez, Pattern Recognition Principles, Addison-Wesley, London, 1974.
Reference Books :
3. C.M Bishop “Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning “ Springer, 2006.
4. A. Konar, Computational Intelligence: Principles, Techniques, and Applications, Springer 2005.
24

--- Page 25 ---
Course Outcomes (CO):
Table1
Course Course Outcome
Outcome No
CO1 Determine Classifiers for Pattern recognition.
CO2 Analyze Feature Selection and Dimensionality Reduction.
CO3 Ability to select an appropriate Pattern Analysis tools and different models for
Analyzing data in a given feature Space.
CO4 Classify the data objects and develop template matching module to recognize the
pattern.
CO5 Apply Unsupervised learning algorithm to data objects.
CO6 Analyze Clustering Algorithm.
CO-PO Mapping:
Table2
Levels: 1: Slight(LOW) 2: Moderate(MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION “--
”
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 2 2 1 1 3 1
CO2 1 2 2 1 3 2
CO3 2 2 1 1 3 2
CO4 2 1 - 2 3 1
CO5 2 2 2 1 3 1
CO6 2 1 2 2 3 2
Total 11 10 8 8 18 9
Average 1.8 1.6 1.6 1.6 3 1.5
Eq. Average 2 2 2 2 3 2
Attainment
25

--- Page 26 ---
Semester I Elective II
1.5.i) EXPERT SYSTEMS
L T P Prerequisites: None
4,0,0:4Credits
Course Objectives:
1. Students will be able to explain and describe the concepts central to the creation of knowledge bases
and expert systems.
2. Students will be knowledgeable about the tools and the processes used for the creation of an
expert system.
3. Student will know methods used to evaluate the performance of an expert system.
4. Students will be able to conduct an in-depth examination of an existing expert system with an
emphasis on basic methods of creating a knowledge base.
5. Students will be able to examine properties of existing systems in a case-study manner,
comparing differing approaches.
MODULE I
Introduction to AI: Intelligent agents, Perception, Natural language processing, Problem, Solving agents,
Searching for solutions: Uniformed search strategies, Informed search strategies.
MODULE II
Adversarial search, Optimal and imperfect decisions, Alpha, Beta pruning, Logical agents: Propositional
logic, First order logic, Syntax and semantics, Using first order logic, Inference in first order logic.
MODULE III
Uncertainty, acting under uncertainty, Basic probability notation, Axioms of probability, Baye’s rule,
Probabilistic reasoning, making simple decisions.
MODULE IV
Planning: Planning problem, Partial order planning, Planning and acting in non, deterministic domains,
Learning: Learning decision trees, Knowledge in learning, Neural networks , Reinforcement learning ,
Passive and active.
MODULE V
Definition, Features of an expert system, Organization, Characteristics, Prospector, Knowledge
Representation in expert systems, Expert system tools, MYCIN, EMYCIN.
Text Books:
Stuart Russel and Peter Norvig, ‘Artificial Intelligence A Modern Approach’, Second Edition, Pearson
Education, PHI.
Donald A.Waterman, ‘A Guide to Expert Systems’, Pearson Education.
References:
1. George F.Luger, ‘Artificial Intelligence, Structures and Strategies for Complex Problem Solving’,
Fourth Edition, Pearson Education.
2. Elain Rich and Kevin Knight, ‘Artificial Intelligence’, Second Edition Tata McGraw Hill.
26

--- Page 27 ---
To establish the correlation between COs & POs and Cos & PSOs
Table 1(Cos)
No. of Course Outcome (CO) Course Outcome
CO1 Implements an expert system.
CO2 Determines inference mechanism for a given problem.
CO3
Determines knowledge representation method for a given problem.
CO4 Knows the commonsense databases and their construction phases.
To compare the design patterns and explain which design pattern
CO5
should be used.
TABLE 2
CO-PO Matrices & CO-PSO Mapping of course
Rating: 1→Slight (LOW), 2→Moderate (MEDIUM), 3→Substantial (HIGH) and “-“ → NO
CORELATION
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 1 1 1 1 1 1
CO2 1 2 2 2 1 2
CO3 2 2 2 3 2 2
CO4 3 3 3 3 3 3
CO5 3 3 3 3 3 3
Total 10 11 11 12 10 11
Average 2 2.2 2.2 2.4 2 2.2
EqAvg
Attainment 2 2 2 2 2 2
27

--- Page 28 ---
1.5.ii) COMPUTER VISION
L T P Prerequisites: None
4, 0, 0: 4Credits
Course Objectives:
1. To introduce students the fundamentals of image formation.
2. To introduce students the major ideas, methods and techniques of computer vision and pattern
recognition.
3. To develop an appreciation for various issues in the design of computer vision and object
recognition systems.
4. To provide the student with programming experience from implementing computer vision and
object recognition applications.
Course Outcomes:
1. Describe different image representation, their mathematical representation and different data structures
used.
2. Classify different segmentation algorithm for given input.
3. Create a 3D object from given set of images.
4. Detect a moving object in video using the concept of motion analysis.
5. Recognize the object using the concept of computer vision
Detailed Syllabus::
MODULE I
Digital Image Formation and low, level processing: Overview and State of the art, Fundamentals of
Image Formation, Transformation: Orthogonal, Euclidean, Affine, Projective, etc, Fourier Transform,
Convolution and Filtering, Image Enhancement, Restoration, Histogram Processing.
Depth estimation and Multi camera views:
Perspective, Binocular Stereopsis: Camera and Epipolar Geometry, Homography, Rectification, DLT,
RANSAC, 3D reconstruction framework, Auto calibration.
MODULE II
Feature Extraction: Edges , Canny, LOG, DOG, Line detectors (Hough Transform), Corners , Harris and
Hessian Affine, Orientation Histogram, SIFT, SURF, HOG, GLOH, Scale, Space Analysis, Image
Pyramids and Gaussian derivative filters, Gabor Filters and DWT.
Image Segmentation: Region Growing, Edge Based approaches to segmentation, Graph, Cut, Mean,
Shift, MRFs, Texture Segmentation, Object detection.
MODULE III
Pattern Analysis:
Clustering: K-Means, K-Medoids, Mixture of Gaussians, Classification: Discriminant Function,
Supervised, Un-supervised, Semi-supervised, Classifiers: Bayes, KNN, ANN models, Dimensionality
Reduction: PCA, LDA, ICA, Nonparametric methods.
MODULE IV
Motion Analysis: Background Subtraction and Modeling, Optical Flow, KLT, Spatio, Temporal
Analysis, Dynamic Stereo, Motion parameter estimation.
28

--- Page 29 ---
Shape from X: Light at Surfaces, Phong Model, Reflectance Map, Albedo estimation, Photometric
Stereo, Use of Surface Smoothness Constraint, and Shape from Texture, color, motion and edges.
MODULE V
Miscellaneous: Applications: CBIR, CBVR, Activity Recognition, computational photography,
Biometrics, stitching and document processing, Modern trends, super-resolution, GPU, Augmented
Reality, cognitive models, fusion and SR&CS.
Text Books:
1. Szeliski, R., Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications, Springer, Verlag London .
2. Forsyth, A., D. and Ponce, J., Computer Vision: A Modern Approach, Pearson Education.
References:
1. Hartley, R. and Zisserman, A., Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision Cambridge
University Press.
2. Fukunaga, K., Introduction to Statistical Pattern Recognition, Academic Press, Morgan
Kaufmann.
To establish the correlation between COs & POs and Cos & PSOs
Table 1(Cos)
No. of Course Outcome (CO) Course Outcome
Describe different image representation, their mathematical
CO1
representation and different data structures used.
CO2 Classify different segmentation algorithm for given input.
CO3
Create a 3D object from given set of images.
CO4 Detect a moving object in video using the concept of motion analysis.
CO5 Recognize the object using the concept of computer vision
29

--- Page 30 ---
TABLE 2
CO-PO Matrices & CO-PSO Mapping of course
Rating: 1→Slight (LOW), 2→Moderate (MEDIUM), 3→Substantial (HIGH) and “-“ → NO
CORELATION
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 1 1 1 1 1 1
CO2 1 2 2 2 1 2
CO3 2 2 2 3 2 2
CO4 3 3 3 3 3 3
CO5 3 3 3 3 3 3
Total 10 11 11 12 10 11
Average 2 2.2 2.2 2.4 2 2.2
EqAvg
Attainment 2 2 2 2 2 2
30

--- Page 31 ---
1.5.(iii) Wireless Communication Network
L T P
4 , 0 , 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objectives:
1. To understand the functions of wireless communication system.
2. To gather knowledge about the evolution of different wireless communication systems and
standards.
3. To understand the architectures of various access technologies such as 3G, 4G, WiFi etc and to
gather knowledge about multiple access techniques for Wireless Communication.
4. To understand the principles of mobile radio communication and to study the recent trends
adopted in cellular systems and wireless standards.
5. To understand various protocols and services provided by the next generation networks .
Detailed syllabus:
MODULE I
Introduction and Generations of Wireless Networks, Characteristics of the Wireless Medium: Radio
Propagation Mechanisms, Path Loss Modelling and Signal Coverage, Effect of Multipath and
Doppler, Channel Measurement and Modelling Technique, Diversity in wireless communications -
Non-coherent and coherent reception; error probability for uncoded transmission, Realization of
diversity: time diversity; frequency diversity: DSSS and OFDM; receiver diversity: SC, EGC and
MRC; transmit diversity: space-time codes; Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) wireless
systems: Capacity of MIMO wireless systems; spatial multiplexing; space-time coding.
MODULE II
Multiple Access Techniques: FDMA, TDMA, CDMA, OFDM, SDMA and their comparisons,
Modulation Techniques – AM, FM, FSK, PSK, QPSK, QAM, 16QAM, interference management,
power control, Mobile Data Networks: Introduction, Data Oriented CDPD Network, GPRS, EDGE
and High Data Rates, SMS in GSM, Mobile Application Protocols
MODULE III
Network Planning: Introduction, Wireless Network Topologies, Cellular Topology, Cell
Fundamentals, Signal to Interferences Ratio Calculations, Channel reuse, Dynamic resource
allocation: Cognitive Radio, Network Planning for CDMA Systems. Wireless Network Operations:
Mobility Management, Radio Resources and Power Management.
MODULE IV
Introduction to Wireless LAN, Overview of IEEE 802.11, Reference Architecture, PHY and MAC
Layer, Wireless Home Networking, Technologies for Home Area Network (HAN), HIPERLAN.
IEEE 802.15 WPAN, HomeRF, Bluetooth, Adhoc Networks, Mesh networks: capacity, routing, and
scheduling., Introduction to 2.5 G and 3 G Networks.
Text Books
31

--- Page 32 ---
1. A. Goldsmith, Wireless Communications, Cambridge Univ. Press, 2005.
2. Kaveh Pahlavan, Prashant Krishnamurthy “Principles of Wireless Networks”, PHI.
Reference Books
1. D. Tse and P. Viswanath, Fundamentals of Wireless Communication, Cambridge Univ. Press,
2005
2. Dharma Prakash Agrawal, Qing- An Zeng, “Introduction to Wireless and Mobile Systems”
CENGAGE Learning.
3 . Kamilo Feher “Wireless Digital Communications”, PHI
4. Jochen Schiller “Mobile Communications”, PEARSON
To establish the correlation between COs & POs and Cos & PSOs
Table 1
Course Outcome
Course Outcome
No.
Discuss the basic principles, concepts of wireless networks and
CO1 analyze the Mobile radio propagation, fading, diversity concepts and
the channel modeling.
Analyze the design parameters, link design, smart antenna, and
CO2
MIMO systems.
Analyze Multiuser Systems, CDMA, WCDMA network planning
CO3
and OFDM Concepts.
Identify the importance of Wireless LAN, Adhoc Networks and
CO4
Wireless Mesh Network and analyze different technologies for HAN.
Summarize the principles and applications of wireless systems and
CO5 design a cellular system based on resource availability and traffic
demands.
32

--- Page 33 ---
CO-PO Mapping:
TABLE 2
1: Slight(LOW) 2: Moderate(MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION-“-“
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 1 1 2 2 2 1
CO2 1 1 1 2 1 1
CO3 2 2 3 2 1 2
CO4 3 3 3 3 2 3
CO5 3 3 3 3 3 3
Total 10 10 12 12 9 11
Average 2 2 2.4 2.4 1.8 2.2
EqAvg
Attainment 2 2 2 2 2 2
33

--- Page 34 ---
1.5.iv) Information Retrieval
L T P
4 , 0 , 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Courses objective:
1. To understand fundamental concepts of Information retrieval systems.
2. To understand the knowledge of data structures and indexing methods in information retrieval
Systems.
3. To learn the evaluation of different indexing techniques.
4. To learn and develop indexing systems for audio and visual documents.
5. To learn the concept of searching of webs.
Detailed Syllabus::
MODULE I
Basic Concepts of IR, Data Retrieval & Information Retrieval, IR system block diagram. Automatic Text
Analysis, Luhn's ideas, Conflation Algorithm, Indexing and Index Term Weighing, Probabilistic
Indexing, Automatic Classification, Measures of Association, Different Matching Coefficient,
Classification Methods, Cluster Hypothesis. Clustering Algorithms, Single Pass Algorithm, Single Link
Algorithm, Rochhio's Algorithm and Dendograms.
MODULE II
File Structures, Inverted file, Suffix trees & suffix arrays, Signature files, Ring Structure, IR Models,
Basic concepts, Boolean Model, Vector Model, and Fuzzy Set Model. Search Strategies, Boolean search,
serial search, and cluster based retrieval, Matching Function.
MODULE III
Performance Evaluation, Precision and recall, alternative measures reference collection (TREC
Collection), Libraries & Bibliographical system, Online IR system, OPACs, Digital libraries ,
Architecture issues, document models, representation & access, Prototypes, projects & interfaces,
standards.
MODULE IV
Taxonomy and Ontology: Creating domain specific ontology, Ontology life cycle Distributed
and Parallel IR: Relationships between documents, Identify appropriate networked collections, multiple
distributed collections, parallel IR, MIMD Architectures, Distributed IR, Collection Partitioning, Source
Selection, and Query Processing.
MODULE V
Multimedia IR models & languages, data modelling, Techniques to represent audio and visual document,
query languages Indexing & searching, generic multimedia indexing approach, Query databases of
multimedia documents, Display the results of multimedia searches, one dimensional time series, two
dimensional color images, automatic feature extraction.
34

--- Page 35 ---
MODULE VI
Searching the Web, Challenges, Characterizing the Web, Search Engines, Browsing, Mata searchers,
Web crawlers, robot exclusion, Web data mining, Metacrawler, Collaborative filtering, Web agents (web
shopping, bargain finder,..), Economic, ethical, legal and political
Issues.
Text Books/References:
1. Introduction to Information Retrieval. C.D. Manning, P. Raghavan, H. Schütze.
Cambridge UP, 2008.
2. Modern Information Retrieval. R. Baeza-Yates, B. Ribeiro-Neto. Addison-Wesley,
1999.
3. Information Retrieval: Algorithms and Heuristics. D.A. Grossman, O. Frieder. Springer,
2004.
4. Managing Gigabytes. I.H. Witten, A. Moffat, T.C. Bell. Morgan Kaufmann, 1999.
5. The Geometry of Information Retrieval. C.J. van Risjbergen. Cambridge UP, 2004.
To establish the correlation between COs & POs and Cos & PSOs
Table 1(Cos)
No. of Course Outcome (CO) Course Outcome
Ability to understand the nature of information and retrieval
CO1
requirements.
Ability to use knowledge of data structures and indexing methods in
CO2
information retrieval systems.
CO3 Ability to evaluate performance of retrieval systems.
CO4 Ability to choose clustering and searching techniques.
Ability to crawl information and explain different types of search
CO5
algorithms.
35

--- Page 36 ---
TABLE 2
CO-PO Matrices & CO-PSO Mapping of course
Rating: 1→Slight(LOW), 2→Moderate(MEDIUM), 3→Substantial (HIGH)
and ‘-‘ → NO CORELATION-“-“
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 1 1 1 1 1 1
CO2 2 2 2 2 2 2
CO3 2 2 2 2 2 2
CO4 3 3 3 3 3 3
CO5 3 3 3 3 3 3
Total 11 11 11 11 11 11
Average 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2
EqAvg
Attainment 2 2 2 2 2 2
36

--- Page 37 ---
1.5.(v) AI for Cyber Security
L T P
4 , 0 , 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objective
The objective of this course is to introduce Artificial Intelligence and Cyber security and their inherent
relationship, using Artificial Intelligence Tools to enhance Security, learn machine learning aspects to
identify security treats, decipher attacks, vulnerabilities, the Future of AI in Advancing Security and
Promoting create architectural, algorithmic and technological foundations for ensuring cyber security,
maintenance of the privacy of individuals/organizations.
Detailed Syllabus:
Module 1:
Introduction: Understanding Cyber security, Looking at the Various Aspects of Cyber security,
Social engineering and phishing , Introducing ransom ware, Malware intrusion, Non-malware
intrusion, Detect, Respond, and Mitigate, Responding to and Recovering From Cyber attacks and
Security Events, Meeting the Challenges of Cyber security,
Module 2:
Understanding Artificial Intelligence: Teaching Machines to be Smarter , Learning Algorithms ,
Supervised learning, Unsupervised learning , Being Smarter , Interacting with Humans , Natural
Language Processing.
Module 3:
Discovering Machine Learning and Deep Learning: Deep Learning and Deeply Layered Neural Networks
, Introducing cognitive computing , Structured and Unstructured Data.
Module 4:
Applying Machine Learning and Deep Learning to Cyber security: Predictive Analytics, Taught
Not Programmed, Uncovering the needle in the haystack, Introducing cognitive computing,
Identifying root cause, A Smarter Adversary.
Module 5:
Using the Cognitive Capabilities to Investigate Security Incidents, Taking Intelligent Action, Understand,
Reason and Learn, Detecting spam with Perceptron, Malware threat detection.
Module 6:
Responding to Ransomware, Network anomaly detection with AI, Fraud prevention with cloud AI
solutions, GANs - Attacks and Defenses.
37

--- Page 38 ---
Reference Book:
1. Artificial Intelligence & Cybersecurity For Dummies, IBM Limited Edition.
2. Machine Learning for Computer and Cyber Security Principle, Algorithms, and Practices, 1st
Ed. By Brij B. Gupta, Quan Z. Sheng, CRC Press.
3. Artificial Intelligence for Security by Archie Addo, Srini Centhala, Muthu Shanmugam,
Publisher(s): Business Expert Press ISBN: 9781951527273.
4. Machine Learning and Security: Protecting Systems with Data and Algorithms 1st Edition, by
Clarence Chio, David Freeman, O'Reilly Media.
5. Hands-On Artificial Intelligence for Cybersecurity by Alessandro Parisi, 2019, Publisher(s):
Packt, ISBN: 9781789804027
Course Outcomes
CO1 Students will be able to have insight into the methods used in artificial intelligence (AI)
and machine learning (ML) related to cyber security.
CO2 Students will be able to demonstrate why are AI important for cybersecurity and how is AI
used in Cyber Security Today.
CO3 Students will be able to measure the Implications of AI in privacy and the applications of
machine learning in security.
CO4 Students will be able to detect intrusion in networks and systems by applying tools and
techniques revealing abnormal patterns in datasets.
CO5 Students will be able to analyze the trends of applications of Artificial Intelligence in cyber
security.
Table: CO-PO Matrices
1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION “--”
PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 -- 1 1 1 -- --
CO2 1 2 2 2 -- --
CO3 1 3 3 3 2 2
CO4 3 3 3 3 2 3
CO5 3 3 3 3 2 2
Total 8 12 12 12 6 7
Average 1.6 2.4 2.4 2.4 1.2 1.4
Eq. Average
Attainment 2 2 2 2 1 1
38

--- Page 39 ---
1.6. Laboratory I(Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms)
L T P
0 , 0 , 2 : 2 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Outcomes:
1 Describe how arrays, records, linked structures, stacks, queues, trees, and graphs are
represented in memory and used by algorithms [ABET (a, b, c, i)].
2 . Describe common applications for arrays, records, linked structures, stacks, queues, trees,
and graphs [ABET (a, b, c ) .
3. Write programs that use arrays, records, linked structures, stacks, queues, trees, and
graphs[ABET (a, c) ]
4. Demonstrate different methods for traversing trees [ABET (a)].
Programme Outcomes:
1. Identify, formulate, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated
conclusions using first principles engineering sciences.
Experiment 1 (Arrays, Linked List, Stacks, Queues, Binary Trees )
I. WAP to implement a 3,stacks of size ‘m’ in an array of size ‘n’ with all the basic
operations such as IsEmpty(i), Push(i), Pop(i), IsFull(i) where ‘i’ denotes the stack
number (1,2,3), m ≅ n/3. Stacks are not overlapping each other. Leftmost stack facing
the left direction and other two stacks are facing in the right direction.
II. WAP to implement 2 overlapping queues in an array of size ‘N’. There are facing in
opposite direction to eachother. Give IsEmpty(i), Insert(i), Delete(i) and IsFull(i)
routines for ith queue
III. WAP to implement Stack ADT using Linked list with the basic operations as Create(),
Is Empty(), Push(), Pop(), IsFull() with appropriate prototype to a functions.
IV. WAP to implement Queue ADT using Linked list with the basic functions of Create(),
IsEmpty(), Insert(), Delete() and IsFull() with suitable prototype to a functions
Experiment 2 (Sorting & Searching Techniques)
Experiment 3 (Hashing)
I. WAP to store k keys into an array of size n at the location computed using a hash
function, loc = key % n, where k<=n and k takes values from [1 to m], m>n. To handle
the collisions use the following collision resolution techniques,
a. Linear, Quadratic, Random probing, Double hashing/rehashing, Chaining.
Experiment 4 (BST and Threaded Trees)
Experiment 5 (AVL Trees and Red,Black Trees)
Experiment 6 ( B,Trees)
Experiment 7 (Min,Max Heaps, Binomial Heaps and Fibonacci Heaps )
Experiment 8 (Disjoint Sets)
Experiment 9 (Graphs Algorithms)
Experiment 10 (String Matching)
39

--- Page 40 ---
To establish the correlation between COs & POs and Cos & PSOs
Table 1(Cos)
No. of Course Outcome (CO) Course Outcome
Describe how arrays, records, linked structures, stacks, queues, trees, and
CO1
graphs are represented in memory and used by algorithms [ABET (a, b, c,
i)].
Describe common applications for arrays, records, linked structures, stacks,
CO2
queues, trees, and graphs [ABET (a, b, c ) .
CO3 Write programs that use arrays, records, linked structures, stacks, queues,
trees, and graphs[ABET (a, c) ]
CO4
Demonstrate different methods for traversing trees [ABET (a)].
TABLE 2
CO-PO Matrices & CO-PSO Mapping of course
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 2 1 1 3 1 3
CO2 2 1 3 1 2 3
CO3 2 2 2 2 2 2
CO4 3 3 3 3 3 1
Total 9 7 9 9 8 9
Average 2.25 1.75 2.25 2.25 2 2.25
EqAvg
Attainment 2 1 2 2 2 2
40

--- Page 41 ---
1.7. Laboratory II (Artificial Intelligence)
L T P
0 , 0 , 2 : 2 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objective:
1. Become familiar with basic principles of AI toward problem solving, inference, perception,
knowledge representation, and learning.
2. Investigate applications of AI techniques in intelligent agents, expert systems, artificial neural
networks and other machine learning models.
3. Experience AI development tools such as an ‘AI language’, expert system shell, and/or data
mining tool.
4. Explore the current scope, potential, limitations, and implications of intelligent systems
List of Experiments
MODULE I
1 Study of PROLOG. Write the following programs using PROLOG / CLIPS
2 Write a program to solve 8 queens problem
3 Solve any problem using depth first search.
4 Solve any problem using best first search.
5 Solve 8-puzzle problem using best first search
6 Solve Robot (traversal) problem using means End Analysis
7 Solve traveling salesman problem.
MODULE II
Experiments on Planning, Situation Calculus Planning using STRIPS
MODULE III
Experiments on Markov Chains, Maximum A posteriori Probability (MAP) Inference, Inference
in Temporal Models, Introduction to learning graphical models, Parameter Estimation, Bayesian
Networks and Shared Parameters.
MODULE IV
Experiments on Neural Networks, ANN, McCulloch Pitts Model, Perceptron Network.
MODULE V
Experiments on Fuzzy Logic: operations of Fuzzy sets, Variables inference techniques,
defuzzification techniques.
41

--- Page 42 ---
To establish the correlation between COs & POs and Cos & PSOs
Table 1(Cos)
No. of Course Outcome (CO) Course Outcome
CO1 Demonstrate fundamental understanding of the history of artificial
intelligence (AI) and its foundations.
Apply basic principles of AI in solutions that require problem solving,
CO2
inference, perception, knowledge representation, and learning.
Demonstrate awareness and a fundamental understanding of various
CO3
applications of AI techniques in intelligent agents, expert systems, artificial
neural networks and other machine learning models.
CO4 Demonstrate an ability to share in discussions of AI, its current scope and
limitations, and societal implications.
TABLE 2
CO-PO Matrices & CO-PSO Mapping of course
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 2 1 1 3 1 3
CO2 2 1 3 1 2 3
CO3 2 2 2 2 2 2
CO4 3 3 3 3 3 1
Total 9 7 9 9 8 9
Average 2.25 1.75 2.25 2.25 2 2.25
EqAvg
Attainment 2 1 2 2 2 2
42

--- Page 43 ---
Semester II
2.1 Robotics and Automation
L T P
3 , 1 , 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objective:
1. Explain the fundamentals of robotics and its components.
2. Illustrate the Kinematics and Dynamics of robotics.
3. Elucidate the need and implementation of related Instrumentation & control in robotics
4. Illustrate the movement of robotic joints with computers/microcontrollers.
5. Explain sensors and instrumentation in robotics.
MODULE I
Robotics Foundations: Kinematics , Dynamics , Mechanisms and Actuation , Sensing and
Estimation , Motion Planning , Motion Control , Force Control , Robotic Systems
Architectures and Programming , AI Reasoning Methods for Robotics.
MODULE II
Robot Structures: Performance Evaluation and Design Criteria , Redundant Manipulators
Parallel Mechanisms and Robots , Robots with Flexible Elements , Model Identification , Robot
Hands , Legged Robots , Wheeled Robots , Micro/Nano Robots.
MODULE III
Sensing and Perception: Force and Tactile Sensors , Inertial Sensors, GPS and Odometry, Sonar
Sensing , Range Sensors , 3D Vision and Recognition , Visual Servoing and Visual Tracking ,
Sensor Fusion.
MODULE IV
Manipulation and Interfaces: Motion for Manipulation Tasks , Modelling and Manipulation ,
Grasping , Cooperative Manipulators, Haptics, Telerobotics, Networked Teleoperation,
Exoskeletons for Human Performance Augmentation.
MODULE V
Mobile and Distributed Robotics: Motion Control of Wheeled Mobile Robots , Motion Planning
and Obstacle Avoidance , World Modeling , Simultaneous Localization and Mapping , Behavior
Based Systems , Distributed and Cellular Robots , Multiple Mobile Robot Systems , Networked
Robots.
MODULE VI
Field and Service Robotics: Industrial Robotics, Underwater Robotics, Aerial Robotics, Space
Robots and Systems, Chap. 46. Robotics in Agriculture and Forestry, Robotics in Construction,
Robotics in Hazardous Applications, Mining Robotics , Search and Rescue Robotics, Intelligent
Vehicles, Medical Robots and Systems, Rehabilitation and Health Care Robotics , Domestic
Robots, Robots for Education.
MODULE VII
Human-Centered and Life Like Robotics: Humanoids , Safety for Physical Human Robot
Interaction , Social Robots that Interact with People , Robot Programming by Demonstration ,
Biologically, Inspired Robots , Evolutionary Robotics, Neurorobotics: From Vision to Action
Perceptual Robotics, Roboethics: Social and Ethical Implications.
43

--- Page 44 ---
Text Books:
1. Introduction to Robotics: Mechanics & Control, 3ed, J. Craig, Prentice Hall, 2004.
2. Robot Modeling and Control, M. Spong, S. Hutchinson, M. Vidyasagar, Wiley, 2005.
3. Fundamentals of Robotics: Analysis and Control, Robert J. Schilling, Prentice Hall, 1990.
4. Theory of Applied Robotics 2nd Ed., R. Jazar, Springer, 2010.
CO-No. Course Outcome Module
Covered
1 Introduction to kinematics and basic construction of Robotics concept.
I
2 Learners will know about structural and design criteria of robot
construction with ethical application. II
3 An introduction to Perception - actuator sequence with environmental
variation and haptic manipulation. III
4 Introduction to mobile robot with AGV and UGV.
IV,V
5 Field application of robotics including agricultural and service sector.
V
6 Human robot interaction and visual perception for surround
localization and mapping. V,VI, VIII
TABLE 2
CO-PO Matrices & CO-PSO Mapping of course
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 1 1 1 3 1 3
CO2 2 3 3 1 2 3
CO3 2 2 2 2 3 2
CO4 3 3 1 3 3 2
Total 8 9 7 9 9 10
Average 2 2.25 1.75 2.25 2.25 2.5
EqAvg
Attainment 2 2 1 2 2 2
44

--- Page 45 ---
2.2. Machine Learning
L T P
3 , 1 , 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objectives:
1. To recognize the characteristics of machine learning that makes it useful to solve real-world
problems.
2. To understand the appropriate implementation of supervised, semi supervised and unsupervised
learning techniques in real-world applications.
3. To choose a suitable machine learning model, implement, and examine the performance of the
chosen model for a given real world problem.
4. To understand cutting edge technologies related to machine learning applications.
Detailed syllabus:
MODULE I
Introduction: Definition of learning systems. Goals and applications of machine learning. Aspects of
developing a learning system: training data, concept representation, function approximation. The concept
learning task. Concept learning as search through a hypothesis space. General-to-specific ordering of
hypotheses. Finding maximally specific hypotheses. Version spaces and the candidate elimination
algorithm. Learning conjunctive concepts. The importance of inductive bias.
MODULE II
Supervised Learning: Classification vs. Regression, Linear and Logistic Regression, Gradient Descent,
Support Vector Machines, Kernels, Decision Trees, ML and MAP Estimates, K-Nearest Neighbor, Naive
Bayes, Introduction to Bayesian Networks, Artificial Neural Networks.
MODULE III
Unsupervised Learning: Partitioning based methods, Hierarchical methods, Density based methods,
Gaussian Mixture Models, Learning with Partially Observable Data (EM). Dimensionality Reduction
and Principal Component Analysis.
MODULE IV
Optimization Techniques: Bias-Variance tradeoff, Regularization, Evaluation techniques for
supervised and unsupervised learning.
MODULE V
Other Learning techniques: A selection from some other advanced topics, e.g., Semi-supervised
Learning, Active Learning, Reinforcement Learning, Recommender Systems.
MODULE VI
Applications of Machine Learning: Texts, Image, Time-series data.
Textbooks:
1) T. Mitchell, Machine Learning, McGrawHill.
45

--- Page 46 ---
2) Ethem Alpaydın, Introduction to Machine Learning 3rd Edition, MIT Press
3) Kevin Murphy, Machine Learning: A Probabilistic Perspective, MIT Press, 2012
References:
1) Marc Peter Deisenroth, A. Aldo Faisal and Cheng Soon Ong, Mathematics for Machine Learning,
Cambridge University Press, 2020.
2) Shwartz and David, Understanding Machine Learning: From Theory to Algorithms, Cambridge
University Press.
3) C.M. Bishop, Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer, 2006.
4) Andrew Ng, Machine Learning Yearning.
5) Other online material.
Course Outcomes (CO):
Table1
Course Outcome No. Course Outcome
Students will be able to understand the mathematics and engineering
CO1
sciences behind functioning of machine learning.
Students will be able to analyze the given dataset and data attributes
CO2
for designing a machine learning-based solution.
Students will be able to identify different machine learning
CO3 approaches, optimization techniques, and apply them on different
problem domains.
Students will be able to design and deploy machine learning
CO4 solutions for real-world applications with popular machine learning
tools.
CO-PO Mapping:
Table2
Levels: 1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION “-
-”
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 2 2 2 1 1 --
CO2 2 2 1 2 2 --
CO3 3 3 3 3 2 1
CO4 3 3 2 1 2 2
Total 10 10 8 8 8 3
Average Attainment 2.5 2.5 2 2 2 0.75
Eq. Average Attainment 3 3 2 2 2 1
46

--- Page 47 ---
2.3 Computational Linear Algebra
L T P Prerequisites: None
3 , 1 , 0 : 4 Credits
Course Objective:
The goals of this course are for students to:
1. Understand basic models of computation and how to use them to analyze the efficiency of
algorithms.
2. Understand the fundamentals of how a computer’s architecture affects the performance of an
algorithms.
3. Understand basic programming paradigms and the tools for implementations using these
paradigms.
MODULE I
Fundamental operation with vectors in Euclidean space Rn , Linear combination of Schwarz inequality,
Triangle−vectors, Dot product and their properties, Cauchy inequality, Projection vectors, Some
elementary results on vector in Rn , Matrices, Gauss, Jordan row reduction, Reduced row echelon form,
Row equivalence, Rank, Linear combination of vectors, Row space, Eigenvalues, Eigenvectors,
Eigenspace, Characteristic polynomials, Diagonalization of matrices, Definition and examples of vector
space, Some elementary properties of vector spaces, Subspace.
MODULE II
Span of a set, A spanning set for an eigenspace, Linear independence and linear dependence of vectors,
Basis and dimension of a vector space, Maximal linearly independent sets, Minimal spanning sets,
Application of rank, Homogenous and non homogenous systems of equations, Coordinates of a vector in
ordered basis, Transition matrix, Linear transformations: Definition and examples, Elementary
properties, The matrix of a linear transformation, Linear operator and Similarity.
MODULE III
Application: Computer graphics, Fundamental movements in a plane, Homogenous coordinates,
Composition of movements, Kernel and range of a linear transformation, Dimension theorem, One to
one and onto linear transformations, Invertible linear transformations, Isomorphism: Isomorphic vector
spaces (to Rn ), Orthogonal and orthonormal vectors, Orthogonal and orthonormal bases, Orthogonal
complement, Projection theorem (Statement only), Orthogonal projection onto a subspace, Application:
Least square solutions for inconsistent systems.
Textbooks
Introduction to Linear Algebra, Fifth Edition, Gilbert Strang.
Linear Algebra Done Right, Third Edition.
No Bullshit Guide To Linear Algebra, Ivan Savov.
Matrix Computations, Gene Golub and Charles Van Loan.
Numerical Linear Algebra, Lloyd Trefethen and David Bau.
47

--- Page 48 ---
Course Outcomes (CO):
Table1
Course Outcome No. Course Outcome
Students will be able to understand the mathematics and engineering
CO1
sciences behind functioning of hardware.
Students will be able to analyze the given problem, its computations
CO2
requirements and solution domain in general terms .
CO3 Students will be able to identify different transformation functions.
Students will be able to design and deploy graph theoretic approach
CO4
to different real-life problem.
CO-PO Mapping:
Table2
Levels: 1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION “-
-”
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 2 2 2 1 1 --
CO2 2 2 1 2 2 --
CO3 3 3 3 3 2 1
CO4 3 3 2 1 2 2
Total 10 10 8 8 8 3
Average Attainment 2.5 2.5 2 2 2 0.75
Eq. Average Attainment 3 3 2 2 2 1
48

--- Page 49 ---
Semester II Elective III
2.4.(i) Agent based intelligent system
L T P Prerequisites: None
4 , 0 , 0 : 4 Credits
Course Objectives:
1. To understand Agent development
2. To gain Knowledge in Multi agent and Intelligent agents
3. To understand Agents and security
4. To gain Knowledge in Agent Applications
MODULE I
Definitions , Foundations , History , Intelligent Agents, Problem Solving, Searching, Heuristics,
Constraint Satisfaction Problems , Game playing.
MODULE II
Logical Agents, First order logic, First Order Inference, Unification, Chaining, Resolution Strategies,
Knowledge Representation, Objects, Actions, and Events
MODULE III
Planning Problem, State Space Search, Partial Order Planning, Graphs, Nondeterministic Domains,
Conditional Planning, Continuous Planning, MultiAgent Planning.
MODULE IV
Acting under uncertainty , Probability Notation, Bayes Rule and use , Bayesian Networks, Other
Approaches, Time and Uncertainty, Temporal Models, Utility Theory , Decision Network , Complex
Decisions.
MODULE V
Knowledge in Learning, Relevance of Information, Statistical Learning Methods, Reinforcement
Learning, Communication, Formal Grammar, Augmented Grammars, Future of AI.
Text Book:
Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig, “Artificial Intelligence , A Modern Approach”,2nd Edition, Prentice
Hall, 2002
References
Michael Wooldridge, “An Introduction to Multi Agent System”, John Wiley.
Patrick Henry Winston, Artificial Intelligence, 3rd Edition, AW.
Nils.J.Nilsson, Principles of Artificial Intelligence, Narosa Publishing House.
49

--- Page 50 ---
Course Outcomes (CO):
Table1
Course Outcome No. Course Outcome
CO1 Students will be able to understand development of software agents.
Students will be able to analyze the given dataset and data attributes
CO2 for designing a neural network-based solution Gain Knowledge in
Multi agent and Intelligent agents.
CO3 Students will be able to understand Agents and security.
CO4 Students will be able to gain knowledge on applications of agents.
CO-PO Mapping:
Table2
Levels: 1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION “-
-”
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 2 2 2 1 1 --
CO2 2 2 1 2 2 --
CO3 3 3 3 3 2 1
CO4 3 3 2 1 2 2
Total 10 10 8 8 8 3
Average Attainment 2.5 2.5 2 2 2 0.75
Eq. Average Attainment 3 3 2 2 2 1
50

--- Page 51 ---
2.4.(ii) Deep Learning
L T P
4 , 0 , 0 :4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objectives:
1. To introduce the idea of Artificial Neural Networks and their applications.
2. To study and implement different architectures of Artificial Neural Networks.
3. To study and implement various optimization techniques on Artificial Neural Networks.
4. To enable design and deployment of deep learning models for machine
learning problems.
Detailed syllabus:
MODULE I
Introduction: Artificial Intelligence and Deep Learning-a historical perspective, Artificial neural
networks, Shallow neural networks, Deep neural networks, gradient descent, forward and
backpropagation, computational graphs, linear and non-linear activation functions.
MODULE II
Optimization techniques: Regularization, Dropout, Batch Normalization, Vanishing/Exploding
gradients, Mini-batch gradient, Gradient descent with momentum, RMSprop, Adam optimization,
Learning rate decay, Local optima, Global optima. Hyperparameter tuning,
MODULE III
Convolutional Neural Networks: Basic operations: padding, stride, pooling; Classic convolutional
models: LeNet-5, AlexNet, VGG, Modern Deep Convolutional models: ResNet, GoogleNet; Inception
Network, 1-D convolutions, Object detection and Face Recognition with CNN.
MODULE IV
Recurrent Neural Networks: Sequence modelling, Types of Recurrent Neural Networks,
Backpropagation through time, Language modelling and sequence generation, Word Embeddings,
vanishing gradients with RNNs, Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM), Gated Recurrent MODULEs
(GRU), Bidirectional LSTMs, Sequence-to-Sequence model, Attention Mechanism, Transformer
Network.
MODULE V
Advanced topics: Deep Reinforcement Learning, Generative Adversarial Networks, Autoencoders.
References:
1) Charu C. Aggarwal, Neural Networks and Deep Learning- A textbook, 2018, Springer.
2) Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville, ”Deep Learning (Adaptive Computation and
Machine Learning series”, MIT Press.
3) Nikhil Buduma, Nicholas Locascio, “Fundamentals of Deep Learning: Designing Next
Generation Machine Intelligence Algorithms”, O'Reilly Media.
4) Other online resources and research publications.
51

--- Page 52 ---
Course Outcomes (CO):
Table1
Course Outcome No. Course Outcome
Students will be able to understand the mathematics and engineering
CO1
sciences behind functioning of artificial neural networks.
Students will be able to analyze the given dataset and data attributes
CO2
for designing a neural network-based solution.
Students will be able to identify different neural network
CO3 architectures, neural network optimization techniques, and apply
them on different problem domains.
Students will be able to design and deploy deep learning solutions
CO4
for real-world applications with popular deep learning tools.
CO-PO Mapping:
Table2
Levels: 1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION “-
-”
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 2 2 2 1 1 --
CO2 2 2 1 2 2 --
CO3 3 3 3 3 2 1
CO4 3 3 2 1 2 2
Total 10 10 8 8 8 3
Average Attainment 2.5 2.5 2 2 2 0.75
Eq. Average Attainment 3 3 2 2 2 1
52

--- Page 53 ---
2.4.(iii) Data Visualization
L T P Prerequisites: None
4 , 0 , 0 : 4 Credits
Course Objectives
1. This course is all about data visualization, the art and science of turning data into readable graphics.
2. How to design and create data visualizations based on data available and tasks to be achieved.
3. This process includes data modeling, data processing (such as aggregation and filtering), mapping
data attributes to graphical attributes, and strategic visual encoding based on known properties of
visual perception as well as the task(s) at hand.
4. Students will also learn to evaluate the effectiveness of visualization designs, and think critically
about each design decision, such as choice of color and choice of visual encoding.
MODULE I
Importance of analytics and visualization in the era of data abundance, Review of probability, statistics
and random processes, Brief introduction to estimation theory.
MODULE II
Introduction to machine learning, supervised and unsupervised learning, gradient descent, overfitting,
regularization etc. , Clustering techniques: K-means, Gaussian mixture models and expectation-
maximization, agglomerative clustering, evaluation of clustering , Rand index, mutual information based
scores, Fowlkes-Mallows index etc. , Regression: Linear models, ordinary least squares, ridge regression,
LASSO, Gaussian Processes regression. , Supervised classification methods: K-nearest neighbor, naive
Bayes, logistic regression, decision tree, support vector machine. , Sparse coding and dictionary learning,
orthogonal matching pursuit. , Introduction to artificial neural networks (ANNs), deep NNs,
convolutional neural network (CNN), and other recent topics.
MODULE III
Data visualization: Basic principles, categorical and continuous variables. , Exploratory graphical
analysis. , Creating static graphs, animated visualizations, loops, GIFs and Videos. , Data visualization
in Python and R, examples from Bokeh, Altair, ggPlot, ggplot2, gganimate, Image Magick etc. ,
Introduction to Visualization Toolkit (VTK) for 3D computer graphics, image processing and
visualization. , Visualization for deep learning
REFERENCE BOOKS
1. Jerome H. Friedman, Robert Tibshirani, and Trevor Hastie, The Elements of Statistical Learning,
Springer.
2. Christopher Bishop, Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer.
3. David G. Stork, Peter E. Hart, and Richard O. Duda, Pattern Classification (2nd edition), Wiley.
4. Edward Tufte, The Visual Display of Quantitative Information (2nd edition), Graphics Press.
5. Colin Ware, Information Visualization: Perception for Design (2nd edition), Morgan Kaufmann.
6. Alberto Cairo, The Functional Art: An Introduction to Information Graphics and Visualization, New
Riders, Pearson Education.
7. Nathan Yau, Data Points: Visualization That Means Something, Wiley.
8. Charles D. Hansen and Chris R. Johnson, Visualization Handbook, Academic Press.
9. Will Schroeder, Ken Martin, and Bill Lorensen, The Visualization Toolkit: An Object,Oriented
Approach to 3D Graphics, Kitware Inc. Publishers.
53

--- Page 54 ---
Course Outcomes (CO):
Table1
Course Outcome No. Course Outcome
Students will be able to explain design and create data
CO1
visualizations.
Students will be able to conduct exploratory data analysis using
CO2
visualization.
Students will be able to use knowledge of perception and cognition
CO3
to evaluate visualization design alternatives.
Students will be able to apply data transformations such as
CO4
aggregation and filtering for visualization.
Students will be able to explain and identify opportunities for
CO5
application of data visualization in various domains.
CO-PO Mapping:
Table: CO-PO Matrices
1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION “--”
PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 -- 1 1 1 -- --
CO2 1 2 2 2 -- --
CO3 1 3 3 3 2 2
CO4 3 3 3 3 2 3
CO5 3 3 3 3 2 2
Total 8 12 12 12 6 7
Average 1.6 2.4 2.4 2.4 1.2 1.4
Eq. Average
Attainment 2 2 2 2 1 1
54

--- Page 55 ---
2.4.(iv) Human Computer Interaction
L T P
4 , 0 , 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objectives
Upon successful completion of this course, students should be able to:
• Design, implement and evaluate effective and usable graphical computer interfaces.
• Describe and apply core theories, models and methodologies from the field of HCI.
• Describe and discuss current research in the field of HCI.
• Implement simple graphical user interfaces.
• Describe special considerations in designing user interfaces for older adults.
Detailed syllabus
HCI foundations- Input–output channels, Human memory, Thinking: reasoning and problem solving, Emotion,
Individual differences, Psychology and the design of interactive systems, Text entry devices, Positioning, pointing
and drawing, Display devices, Devices for virtual reality and 3D interaction, Physical controls, sensors and special
devices, Paper: printing and scanning
Designing- Programming Interactive systems- Models of interaction, Frameworks and HCI, Ergonomics,
Interaction styles, Elements of the WIMP interface, The context of the interaction, Experience, engagement and
fun, Paradigms for interaction,
Cantered design and testing- Interaction design basics-The process of design, User focus, Scenarios, Navigation
design, Screen design and layout, Iteration and prototyping, Design for non-Mouse interfaces, HCI in the software
process, Iterative design and prototyping, Design rules, Principles to support usability, Standards and Guidelines,
Golden rules and heuristics, HCI patterns
Implementation support - Elements of windowing systems, Programming the application, Using toolkits, User
interface management systems, Evaluation techniques, Evaluation through expert analysis, Evaluation through
user participation, Universal design, User support
Models and Theories - Cognitive models, Goal and task hierarchies, Linguistic models, The challenge of display-
based systems, Physical and device models, Cognitive architectures
Collaboration and communication - Face-to-face communication, Conversation, Text-based communication,
Group working, Dialog design notations, Diagrammatic notations, Textual dialog notations, Dialog semantics,
Dialog analysis and design
Human factors and security - Groupware, Meeting and decision support systems, Shared applications and
artifacts, Frameworks for groupware Implementing synchronous groupware, Mixed, Augmented and Virtual
Reality
Text Books
1. A Dix, Janet Finlay, G D Abowd, R Beale., Human-Computer Interaction, 3rd Edition, Pearson Publishers,2008.
2. Shneiderman, Plaisant, Cohen and Jacobs, Designing the User Interface: Strategies for Effective Human
Computer Interaction, 5th Edition, Pearson Publishers, 2010.
55

--- Page 56 ---
To establish the correlation between COs & POs and Cos & PSOs
Table 1(Cos)
No. of Course Outcome (CO) Course Outcome
CO1 Design and Development processes and life cycle of Human Computer
Interaction
CO2 Analyze product usability evaluations and testing methods.
CO3 Apply the interface design standards/guidelines for cross cultural and
disabled users.
CO4 Categorize Design and Develop Human Computer Interaction in proper
architectural structures.
TABLE 2
CO-PO Matrices & CO-PSO mapping of course
1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION-“-“
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6 PO7 PO8 PSO1 PSO2
CO1 2 3 2 2 1 1 1
CO2 1 3 1 2 2
CO3 2 2 1 3 2 2 1 3 3
CO4 1 1 1 2 2 2 3 3
Total 6 6 5 7 4 2 3 4 9 9
Average 1.50 2.00 1.67 1.75 2.00 2.00 1.5 1.00 2.25 2.25
Eq Avg
Attainment 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
56

--- Page 57 ---
2.4.(v) Embedded and Real Time System
L T P
4 , 0 , 0 : 4 Credits Prerequisites: None
Course Objectives:
1.This course emphasizes on comprehensive treatment of embedded hardware and real time
operating systems along with case studies, in tune with the requirements of Industry.
2. The objective of this course is to enable the students to understand embedded-system
programming and apply that knowledge to design and develop embedded solutions.
Programme Outcomes:
1. To learn the concept of designing computer organization and architecture
2. To gain an understanding of applications of embedded systems involving real-time
programming of microcontrollers.
MODULE I
Introduction to Embedded Systems, CPUs vs. MCUs vs. Embedded Systems, Examples of, Embedded Systems,
Options for Building Embedded Systems, Features of Embedded Systems, Introduction to Internet of Things (IoT),
Challenges of IoT, Building Embedded Systems , Building Embedded System using MCUs, Introduction to the
mbedTM Platform, Introduction to mbed, mbed Software Development Kit (SDK), , Hardware Development Kit
(HDK), mbed Development Tools, mbed Worldwide Developer CommModuley, Freedom KL25Z, NXP LPC1768
Hardware Platform, Nordic nRF51822 Hardware Platform, mbed and Internet of Things.
MODULE II
ARM Architectures and Processors, ARM Processor Families, ARM Cortex-M Series, Cortex-M0+ Processor,
ARM Processor vs. ARM Architectures, ARM Cortex-M0+ Processor, Cortex-M0+ Block Diagram, Cortex-M0+
Memory Map, Bit-band Operations, ARM Cortex-M0+ Processor Instruction Set, ARM and Thumb Instruction
Set, Cortex-M0+ Interrupts, NVIC (Nested Vectored Interrupt Controller), Port Module and External Interrupts,
Cortex Microcontroller Software Interface Standard (CMSIS), Benefits of CMSIS, CMSIS Functions, mbed
Software Development Kit (SDK), Features of mbed SDK, mbed SDK Library Structure, Program Code, C
Language vs. Assembly Language, Program-Generation Flow, Program Image, Program Data, Data Types,
Accessing Data using C and Assembly, Mixed Assembly and C Programming, Embedded Assembly.
MODULE III
Digital Input and Output, Voltages and Logic Values, GPIO Controller, Using Pointer to Access, GPIO, Define
Data Structure for Peripherals, Digital IO Examples, Using LED, Using 7-Segment Display, Using Infrared
Emitter/ Detector, Analog Input, Digital-to-Analog Converter, Analog Output, Analog-to-Digital Converter, ADC
range, Resolution and Quantization, Sampling Frequency, Input/ Output Analog Signals using mbed, mbed Analog
Input, mbed Analog Output.
MODULE IV
Timer and Pulse-Width Modulation, Timer Overview, Components of a Standard Timer, Compare Mode, Capture
Mode, Pulse-Width Modulation Mode, mbed Timer and PWM, mbed Timer, mbed time ticker, mbed PWM, Serial
Communication Overview, UART Communication, Operating System Overview, Types and Services of Operating
Systems, Real-Time Operating System, RTOS Overview, RTOS Task Scheduling, Keil RTX RTOS, RTOS on
mbed platform, mbed RTOS API, Using mbed RTOS API for your Project, Thread, Mutex and Semaphore.
MODULE V
Practical Implementation; Introduction to the Keil Mdk-Arm Tool, C And Assembly Coding - Processing Text In
Assembly Language, Square Root Approximation, Digital Input/ Output and GPIO, Interrupt and Low Power
Features, Programming using mbed API, Analog Input and Output Timer and PWM, Serial Communication
57

--- Page 58 ---
Text Books and References:
1. The Definitive Guide to the ARM Cortex-M0 by Joseph Yiu
2. Marilyn Wolf, Computers as Components – Principles of Embedded Computing System Design, Third
Edition Morgan Kaufmann Publisher (An imprint from Elsevier), 2012. (Module I, II, III, V)
3. Jane W.S.Liu, Real Time Systems, Pearson Education, Third Indian Reprint, 2003.(Module IV)
4. Lyla B.Das, Embedded Systems : An Integrated Approach Pearson Education, 2013.
To establish the correlation between COs & POs and Cos & PSOs
Table 1(Cos)
No. of Course Outcome (CO) Course Outcome
CO1 Apply the concepts of embedded system.
CO2 Design and program for Embedded Systems.
CO3 Explain and work on Real time operating systems.
TABLE 2
CO-PO Matrices & CO-PSO Mapping of course
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 1 1 3 1 3 1
CO2 2 3 3 2 3 2
CO3 3 3 2 2 2 2
Total 6 7 8 5 8 5
Average 2 2.33 2.67 1.67 2.67 1.67
EqAvg
Attainment 2 2 2 1 2 1
58

--- Page 59 ---
2.5 Laboratory, I (Robotics and Automation Lab)
L T P Prerequisites: None
0,0,3:2Credits
Course Objective:
1. To recognize data attribute types and data preprocessing techniques.
2. To understand and apply supervised, unsupervised, and other learning techniques.
3. To understand and apply machine learning optimization techniques.
4. To understand and apply various machine learning algorithm performance evaluation techniques.
5. To choose a suitable machine learning model, implement, and examine the performance of the
chosen model for a given real world problem.
6. To understand cutting edge technologies related to machine learning applications.
Detailed Syllabus:
MODULE I
Robotics Foundations: Kinematics , Dynamics , Mechanisms and Actuation , Sensing and
Estimation , Motion Planning , Motion Control , Force Control , Robotic Systems
Architectures and Programming , AI Reasoning Methods for Robotics.
MODULE II
Robot Structures: Robots with Flexible Elements , Model Identification .
MODULE III
Sensing and Perception: Force and Tactile Sensors , Inertial Sensors, GPS and Odometry, Sonar
Sensing , Range Sensors , 3D Vision and Recognition , Visual Servoing and Visual Tracking ,
Sensor Fusion.
MODULE IV
Manipulation and Interfaces: Motion for Manipulation Tasks , Modelling and Manipulation.
MODULE VII
Human-Centered and Life Like Robotics: Humanoids , Experiments with humanoid Robot
kinematics and control.
Text Books:
1. Introduction to Robotics: Mechanics & Control, 3ed, J. Craig, Prentice Hall, 2004.
2. Robot Modeling and Control, M. Spong, S. Hutchinson, M. Vidyasagar, Wiley, 2005.
3. Fundamentals of Robotics: Analysis and Control, Robert J. Schilling, Prentice Hall, 1990.
4. Theory of Applied Robotics 2nd Ed., R. Jazar, Springer, 2010.
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS
1. Determination of maximum and minimum position of links.
2. Verification of transformation (Position and orientation) with respect to gripper and world coordinate
system
3. Estimation of accuracy, repeatability and resolution.
59

--- Page 60 ---
4. Robot programming and simulation for pick and place.
5. Robot programming and simulation for Color identification.
6. Robot programming and simulation for Shape identification.
7. Robot programming and simulation for Kinematics.
8. Robot programming and simulation for remote operation.
9. Speech Processing for Robots.
10. Home and device automation.
Course Outcomes (CO):
Table1
Course Outcome No. Course Outcome
Students will be able to explain the fundamentals of robotics and its
CO1
components.
Students will be able to . illustrate the Kinematics and Dynamics of
CO2
robotics.
Students will be able to elucidate the need and implementation of
CO3
related Instrumentation & control in robotics.
Students will be able to design and deploy the movement of robotic
CO4
joints with computers/microcontrollers.
Students will be able to explain sensors and instrumentation in
CO5
robotics
CO-PO Mapping:
Table: CO-PO Matrices
1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION “--”
PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 -- 1 1 1 -- --
CO2 1 2 2 2 -- --
CO3 1 3 3 3 2 2
CO4 3 3 3 3 2 3
CO5 3 3 3 3 2 2
Total 8 12 12 12 6 7
Average 1.6 2.4 2.4 2.4 1.2 1.4
Eq. Average
Attainment 2 2 2 2 1 1
60

--- Page 61 ---
2.6 Laboratory, II (Machine Learning Lab)
L T P Prerequisites: None
0,0,3:2Credits
Course Objective:
7. To recognize data attribute types and data preprocessing techniques.
8. To understand and apply supervised, unsupervised, and other learning techniques.
9. To understand and apply machine learning optimization techniques.
10. To understand and apply various machine learning algorithm performance evaluation techniques.
11. To choose a suitable machine learning model, implement, and examine the performance of the
chosen model for a given real world problem.
12. To understand cutting edge technologies related to machine learning applications.
Detailed Syllabus:
MODULE I
Data preprocessing: Introduction to NumPy, Pandas, matplotlib, Scikit-learn.
MODULE II
Supervised Learning: Implementation of Linear and logistic regression, Naïve bayes, Decision Tree,
Support Vector Machines, Neural Networks.
MODULE III
Unsupervised Learning: Implementation of k-means, Agglomerative, DBSCAN, Dimensionality
Reduction and Principal Component Analysis.
MODULE IV
Optimization Techniques: Bias-Variance tradeoff, Cross-validation, Regularization, Precision, Recall
and F-measure.
MODULE V
Other Learning techniques: Implementation of Reinforcement Learning, Recommender Systems,
Anomaly Detection.
MODULE VI
Applications of Machine Learning: Texts, Image, Time-series data.
Textbooks:
1) Andreas C. Müller and Sarah Guido, Introduction to Machine Learning with Python: A Guide for
Data Scientists, O’Reilly.
2) Other online material.
61

--- Page 62 ---
Course Outcomes (CO):
Table1
Course Outcome No. Course Outcome
Students will be able to understand the mathematics and engineering
CO1
sciences behind functioning of machine learning.
Students will be able to analyze the given dataset and data attributes
CO2
for designing a machine learning-based solution.
Students will be able to identify different machine learning
CO3 approaches, optimization techniques, and apply them on different
problem domains.
Students will be able to design and deploy machine learning
CO4 solutions for real-world applications with popular machine learning
tools.
CO-PO Mapping:
Table2
Levels: 1: Slight (LOW) 2: Moderate (MEDIUM) 3: Substantial (HIGH) and for NO CORELATION “-
-”
CO PO1 PO2 PO3 PO4 PO5 PO6
CO1 2 2 2 1 1 --
CO2 2 2 1 2 2 --
CO3 3 3 3 3 2 1
CO4 3 3 2 1 2 2
Total 10 10 8 8 8 3
Average Attainment 2.5 2.5 2 2 2 0.75
Eq. Average Attainment 3 3 2 2 2 1
***************************************************************************
62