
--- Page 1 ---
REGISTERED NO. DL--(I'Q04/000712003--12
OiQIEf((Uj
EX'IRAORDINARY
n--
'11'1 1
PART ll-Section 1
'!llftrlliR 'V 'RlftR!
PUBLISHED BY AtJIHORITY
~301 "'~. ~ "ff8, 20121 ~ 18, 1934 (11'1;)
No. 30) NEWDEUII, FRIDAY, JUNE 8, 2012/ JYAISTHA 18,1934 (SAKA)
lU '11'1 'if f'A ~ftllr ~;mitt~ fll; ~ ~ ~ ~ l"i 'if \WI 011 WI
Seponte paglna is given to this Part in order that it may be filed 11 a separate compilation.
MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE
(Legislative Department)
New Delhi, 8 June, 20 12/Jyaistha 18, 1934 (Saka)
The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the President on the
7th June, 2012, and is hereby published for general information:-
THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF TECHNOLOGY (AMENDMENT)
ACT,2012
No. 28 OF 2012
An Act to amend the National Institutes ofTechnology Act, 2007.
[7thJune, 2012)
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-third Year of the Republic oflndiaas follows:-
1. (/) This Act may be called the National Institutes of Technology (Amendment) Short title and
Act,2012. cornmentcmcnt.
(2) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, appoint
29 or 2007. 2. In the National Institotes ofTechnology Act, 2007 (hereinafter referred to as the Amendment of
principal Act), in the long title, for the words "eertain institutions of technology", the words long title.
"certain institutions of technology, science education and research" shall be substituted.
3. In section I of the principal Act, in sub-seciion(I);fot the words "National Institutes Amendment of
of Technology'', the· words "National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and section I.
Research" shall be substiMed.
4. In section 2 of the principal Act, for the words "the Schedule", the words "the First Amendmcot or
Schedule and the Second Schedule" shall be substituted. section 2.

--- Page 2 ---
2 TilE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [PARTU-
Amendment of 5. In section 3 of the principal Act,-
section 3.
(I) in clause (c), for the words ''the Schedule" at both the places where they
occur, the words "the First Schedule and the Second Schedule" shall be substi1Uted;
(h) in clause (d), after the word and figures "section 30", the words, brackets,
figures and letter "or sub-section (I) of section 30A, as the case may be," shall be
inserted;
(lir} in clause (g), for the words "the Schedule", the words "the First Schedule
and the Second Schedule" shall be substituted;
(tv) in clause (k), for the words "the Schedule", the words "the First Schedule
and the Second Schedule" shall be substituted;
(v) in clause (m), for the words "the Schedule", the words "the First Schedule
and the Second Schedule" shall be substituted.
Amendment or 6. In section 4 oft he principal Act, in sub-section (1}, for the words ''the Schedule", the
section 4. words ''the First Schedule and the Second Schedule" shall be substituted.
Amendment of 7. lnsection6 oft he principal Act, in sub-section (I), in clause (h), the words "and the
section 6. Deputy Director" shall be omitted.
Amendment of 8. In section 11 of the principal Act,-
section II.
( t) for the word "Institute" wherever it occurs, the words "Institute menticmed in
the First Schedule" shall be substituted;
(tl) in clause (e), the word "and" occurring at the end shall be omitted;
(iir} after clause (jj, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:-
"(g) the Director of the Indian Institute of Technology in whose zone the
Institute is located, or his nominee, not below the rank of a Professor.".
Insertion of 9. After section 11 oft he principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:-
new section
llA.
Board of "llA. The Board of every Institute mentioned in the Second Schedule shall
InstituteS of consist of the following members, namely:-
Second
Schedule. ( a) the Chairperson to be nominated by the Visitor;
(b) Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Government of India, or
his nominee not below the rank of the Joint Secretary to the Government of
India, ex officio;
(c) Director of the Institute, ex officio;
(d) Director of Indian lnstituteofScience, Bangalore, ex officio;
(e) Director of one oft he Indian Institutes ofTechnology, to be nominated
by the Central Government;
(j) two Secretaries to the Government of India, to be nominated by the
Central Government representing its Scientific or Industrial Ministries;
(g) Chief Secretary of the State in which the Institute is located, or his
noillinee not below the rank of the Joint Sec@IBJy !9 _the: Government of India,
ex officio; ··
(h) two professors of the Institute to be nominated by the Senate;
(r) two eminent scientists, tobe nominated by the Council, having special
knowledge or practical experience in respect of education, engineering or science,
one of whom shall be a woman; and .
(j) Financial Advl<or, Ministry of Human Resource Development,
ex officio. ".

--- Page 3 ---
SEC. I] THEGAZETTEOFINDIAEXTRAORDINARY 3
IO.Io section 12 ofthe principa!Act,- Amendment of
section 12.
(z) in clause (c), after the figures "II", the words, brackets, letters and figures
"and clause (h) of section II A" shall be inserted;
(iz) in clause (d), after the word and figures "section II", the words, figures and
letter "or section II A, as the case may be," shall be inserted;
(iiz) in clause(/), after the figures" 11 ",the words, brackets, letters and figures
"lllld clauses (c) and (h) of section II A" shall be inserted.
11. In section 17 of the principa!Act,- Amendment of
section 17.
(a) in sub-section(/), the words "and Deputy Director'' shall be omitted;
(b) for sub-section (5), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:-
"(5) The Deputy Director of every Institute shall be appointed in such
manner and on such terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Statutes
and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to
him by this Act or the Statutes or by the Director.".
12 In section 24 of the principal Act, the words "and Deputy Director" shall be omitted. Amendment of
section 24.
13. In section 30 of the principal Act, in sub-section (/), for the word "Schedule", the Amendment of
words "First Schedule" shall be substituted. section 30.
"
14. After section 30 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, Insertion of
namely:- new section
JOA.
"30A. (/) With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by Establishment
notification, specify in this behalf, there shall be established fer all the Institutes of Council for
specified in column 3 of the Second Schedule, a central body to be called the Council. the Institutes
of Second
(2) The Council under sub-section(/) shall consist of the following members, Schedule.
namely:-
(a) the Minister in charge of the Ministry or Department of the Central
Government having administrative control of the technical education, ex officio,
Chairman·
'
(b) the Secretary to the Government of India in charge of the Ministry or
Department of the Central Government having administrative control of the
technical education, ex officio, Vice-Chairman;
(c) the Chairperson of every Board of the Institutes mentioned in the
Second Schedule, ex officio;
(d) the Director of every Institute mentioned in the Second Schedule,
ex officio;
(e) the Chairman, University Grants Commission, ex officio;
(j) the Director General, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research,
ex officio;
(g) four Secretaries to the Government of India to represent the Ministries
or Departments oft he Centtal GoVtifali.mt<!ealilrg with bio-technology, atomic
energy, information technology and space, ex officio;
(h) the Chairman, Defence Research and Development Organisation,
ex officio;
(i) not less than three, but not more than five persons to be nominated by
the Visitor, at least one of whom shall be a woman, having special knowledge or
practical experience in respect of education, industry, science or technology;

--- Page 4 ---
4 11ffi OAZEITEOF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [PARr I!-
(/) three members of Parliament, of whom two shall be chosen by the
House of the People and ooe by the Council of States:
Provided that the office of member of the Council shall not disqualify its
holderforbeingchosen as or for being, amemberofeither House of Parliament;
(k) two Secretaries to the State Government, from amongst the Ministries
or Departments oft hat Government dealing with teclmical education where the
Institute is located, ex officio;
(1) Financial Adviser, dealing with the Human Resource Development
Milristry or Departments of that Government dealing with technical education
where the Institute is located, ex officio; and
(m) one officer not below the rank of the Joint ~retaryto the Government
of India in the Ministry or Department of the Central Government having
administrative control of the scientific or technical education,
ex afficlo, Member-Secretary.".
Amendment 15. In section 31 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), after the word and
of section 31. figures usection 30", the words. brackets, letters and figures "and clause (}1 of
sub-section (2) of section 30A" shall be inserted.
Amendment 16. In section 3 7 of the principal Act,-
of section 37 .
(I) in clause (a), after the words "every Institute", the words ''mentioned in
the First Schedule" shall be inserted;
(il) after clause (b),.the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:-
"( c) recruitment process and disciplinary proceedings, which had
commenced before the commencement of the National InstiMes ofTechnology
(Amendment) Act, 2012, shall be completed, mutatis mutandis, in accordance
with the relevant provisions in force immediately before such commencement.
Explanation.-Recruitment process for a post may be taken to have
commenced from the date of publication oft he advertisement inviting application
for the post, and disciplinary proceedings against an employee of the Institute
may be taken to have commenced on the date of issue of charge sheet for major
penalty or show cause notice for minor penalty to such employee;
(d) all matters, which are meant to be provided through Statutes and
Ordinances under sections 25 and 27, respectively, shall, till such Statutes and
Ordinances are made, be governed, mutatis mutandis, by the corresponding
provisions in force immediately before the commencement of1 his Act.".
Transitional 17. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act-
provisions in
(a) the Board of every Institute specified in the Second Schedule functioning
respect of
Institutes of as such immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue to so
Second function until a new Board is constituted for that Institute under this Act, but on
Schedule.
the constitution of a new Board under this Act, members of the Board holding
office before such constitution shall cease to hold office;
(b) every Senate constituted in relation to every Institute before the
commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be the Senate constituted under
this Act unless a Senate is constituted under this Act for that Ins($te but on the
constitution of new Senate under this Act, members of the Senate holding office
beforesuch constitution shall "~lease to hold-office.
18. (I) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of the National
Power to
remove Institutes of Technology (Amendment) Act, 2012, the Central Government may, by
difficUlties. order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act as may appear to it to be necessary or expedient for removing the
difficulty:

--- Page 5 ---
.
~
SFC. I] THE GAZETIE Of INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 5
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry ofa period of two years from
the date of commencement of this Act.
(2) Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid
before each House of Parliament.
I 9. (/)The Schedule to the principal Act shall be numbered as the First Schedule and Amendment
in the First Schedule as so numbered, after Sl. No~ 20 and the entries relating thereto, the of Schedule~
following shall be inserted, namely·-
"21. National Institute of Technology, Nationallnstitute of Technology,
Goa, Society Goa.
22. National Institute of Technology, National Institute of Technology,
Puducherry Society Puducherry.
National Institute of Technology, National Institute of Technology,
23~
Delhi Society Delhi.
24. National Institute of Technology, National Institute of Technology,
Sumari (Srinagar), Uttarakhand Society Uttarakhand.
National Institute of Technology, National Institute of Technology,
25~
Sohra (Megbalaya) Society Meghalaya.
26. National Institute of Technology, National Institute of Technology,
Mizoram Society Mizonun.
'2:1. National Institute of Technology, National Institute of Technology,
Manipur Society
Manipur~
28. National Institute of Technology, National Institute of Technology,
Nagaland Society Nagaland.
29. National Institute of Technology, National Institute of Technology,
Arunachal Pradesh Society Arunachal Pradesh.
30. National Institute of Technology, National Institute of Technology,
Sikkim Sikkim.".
(2) After the FtrSt Schedule as so numbered, the following Schedule shall be inserted,
namely:-
"THE SECOND SCHEDULE
[See sections 3(g), (m), 4(/) and II A]
LIST OF INDIAN INSTITUTES OF SCIENCE EDUCATION RE5EAROI
Sl. Society Corresponding Institute
No.
I 2 3
I. Indian Institute of Science Education Indian Institute of Science Education
and Research, Kolkata Society and Research, Kolkata.
2 Indian Institute of Science Education Indian Institute of Science Education
and Research, Pune Society and Research, Pune.
3. Indian Institute of Science Education Indian Institute of Science Education
and Research, Mohali Society and Research, MohalL
4. Indian Institute of Science Education Indian Institute of Science Education
and Research, Bhopal Society and Research, Bhopal.
5. Indian Institute of Science Education Indian Institute of Science Education
and Research, Thiruvananthapuram and Research, Thiruvananthapuram."~
Society
V. K. BHASIN,
Secretary to the Govt~ ofI ndia~
PRINTED BY DIRECTORATE or PRlNTING AT GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD, NEW DELHI AND
PUBLISHED BY TilE CONIROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS. DELH1, 2012.
GMGIPMRN0-1480Gl(S3H-6-2012~