
--- Page 1 ---
 

 

 

"EXTRAORDINARY
wt W— wel
PART II — Section 1
wiftrert went
_ PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

a ee aie = a6 — ve a —
No, 34] NEW DELHI, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6, 2007 TYAISTHA 16, 1925 .

   

 

      
     

 

Caillat batgolaeepieopepenonoen }
a _Separete paging & given to this Fart in order that it may Bs be filed. an eparate complintion.

   

MINISTRY OF LAW AND D JUSTICE
(Legislative Department)

New Delhi, the 6th June, 200Vivaistha 16, 1925 (Saka!

The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the President onthe
Sth June, 2007, and is hereby published for general information: —

THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF TECHNOLOGY ACT, 2007
No. 29 0r2007

AnActto declare certain institutions of technology to be Institutions of national
importance and to provide for instructions and research in branches of
etigineering, ‘technology, management, education, sciences and arts and
for the advancement of learning and dissemination of knowledge in such
branches and for certain other matters connected with such institutions.
Bz it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-cighth Year of the Republic of India as

follows _— ;

CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
1, (7). This Act may be called the National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007,

(2 It shall come inte force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, appoint, and different dates may be appointed for different provisions
of this Act.

(Sth June, 2007.) °°

Short Htle and
commencement,


--- Page 2 ---
 

   
 

2 __ THE GAZETTE OF ‘INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part T—

_ Declaration of 2.. Whereas. the objects of the institutions mentioned in the Schedule are such as to
certain Institu- make them Institutions of national importance, it is hereby declared that each: such institute

Hons as Instifu- i. an Institution of national importance.
tions of national

importance. . . , oe
Definitions. 3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— —

(a) “Board”, in relation to ariy Institute, means the Board of Governors thereof: —

(8) “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of ‘the Board;

(c) “Corresponding Institute”, in relation to a society mentioned i in column (2).

of the Schedule, means the Institute as specified in column (3) of the Schedule;

(@ “Council” means the Council established under sub-section (/) of section
30;

(e) “Deputy Director”, in relation to any Institute, means the Deputy Director
thereof}.

(A “Director”, in relation to any Institute, means the Director thereof:

(g) “Institute” means any of the Institutions mentioned in column (3) of the
Schedule; oo :

(A) “notification” means a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(7) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;

Q) “Registrar”, in relation to any Institute, means the Registrar thereof:
(4) “Schedule” means the Schedule annexed to the Act; .

() “Senate”, i in relation to any Institute, means the Senate thereof:

‘(m) “Society” means any of the societies registered under the Societies
Registration Act, 1860 and mentioned in column (2) of . the Schedule;

(7) “Statutes” and “Ordinances”, in relation to any Institute, means the Statutes
and Ordinances of that Institute made under this Act. :

CHAPTER II
THe Institutes -

Incorporation of 4. (7) Each of the Institutes mentioned in column (3) of the Schedule shall be a body
Tnstitutes. corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal and shall, by its name, sue and be
sued, - .

{2) The body corporate constituting each of the said Institutes shall consist of a
Chairperson, a Director and other members of the Board for the time being of the Institute.

Effect of 5. On and from the commencement of this Act,—
- incorporation
of Thstitutes. (a) any reference to a socicty in any law, other ‘than this Act, or in any contract or

other instrument shall be deemed as a reference to the corresponding Institute;

(5) all property, movable and immovable, of or belonging to a asociety shall vest
in the corresponding Institute;

(c) all the rights and liabilities ofa soslety shall be transferred to, and be the

‘rights and liabilities of the corresponding Institute; and

(d) every person employed by a society, immediately before such commencement
shall hold his office or service in the corresponding Institute for the same tenure, at the
same rémuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights
and privileges as to pension, leave, gratuity, provident fund and other matters as he
would have held if this Act had not been passed, and stiall continue to do so unless
and until his employment is terminated or until such tenure, remuneration and terms
and conditions are duly altered by th the Statutes: : -

 

21 of 1860.


--- Page 3 ---
Sec. 1] - THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 3

 

Provided that if the alteration so made is not acceptable to such employee, his
employment may be terminated by the Institute in accordance with the terms of contract
with the employee or, ifno provision is made therein in this behalf, on payment to him by the
Institute, of compensation equivalent to three months' remuneration in the case of permanent
employee and one month's remuneration in the case of other employee.

6. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, every Institute shall exercise the following
powers and perform the following duties, namely:— _

(a) to provide for instruction and research in such branches of engineering and
technology, management, education, sciences and arts, as the Institute may think fit,
and for the advancement of learning and dissemination of knowledge in such branches;

(6) to hold examinations and grant degrees, diplomas and other academic
distinctions or titles;

(c} to confer honorary degrees or other distinctions;

(d) to fix, demand and receive fees and other charges;

(e) to establish, maintain and manage halls and hostels for the residence of
students; :

(f) to supervise and control the residence and regulate the discipline of students
of the Institute and to make arrangements for promoting their health, general welfare
and cultural and corporate life;

Powers of
Institutes.

(g) to provide for the maintenance of units of the National Cadet Corps forthe -

students of the Institute; /

(A) to institute academic and other posts with the prior approval of the Central
Government, and to make appointments thereto excluding the Director and the Deputy
Director; /

(2) to frame Statutes and Ordinances and to alter, modify or rescind the same;

(j) to deal with any property belongiag to or vested in the Institute in such manner
as the Institute may deem fit for advancing the objects of the Institute;

(4) to receive gifts, grants, donations or benefactions from the Government and
to receive bequests, donations and transfers of movable or immovable properties from
testators, donors or transferors, as the case may be; .

(2 to co-operate with educational or other institutions in any part of the world
having objects wholly or partly similar to those of the Institute by exchange of teachers
and scholars and generally in such manner as may be conducive to their common
objects; - ;

(m) to institute and award fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions, prizes and
medals;

(n) to undertake consultancy-in the areas or disciplines relating to the
Institute; and .

(0) to do all such things as may be necessary, incidental or conducive to the
attainment of all or any of the objects of the Institute.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (/ ), an Institute shall not dispose
of in any manner any immovable property without the prior approval of the Central
Government. .

7. (1) Every Institute shall be open to persons of either sex and of whatever race,
creed, caste or class, and no test or condition shall be imposed as to religious belief or
profession in admitting or appointing members, students, teachers or workers or in any other
connection whatsoever.

(2) No bequest, donation or transfer of any property shall be accepted by any Institute,
which in the opinion of the Council involves conditions or obligations opposed to the spirit
and object of this section.

Institutes to be
open to all
faces, creeds
and classes.

 


--- Page 4 ---
 

 

Teaching at
Institutes.

Visitor.

Authorities of
Institutes. -

Board of
Governors,

Term of office
of, vacancies
among, and
allowances
payable to,

" members of
Board.

4 _ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY {Parr I—_

8. All teaching at each of the Institutes shall be conducted by or in the name of the :
Institute in accordance with the Statutes and Ordinances made in this behalf.
9. (1) The President of India shall be the Visitor of every Institute.

(2) The Visitor may appoint one or more persons to review the work and progress of
any Institute and to hold inquiries into the affairs thereof and to report thereon in such .
manner as the Visitor may direct. .

(3) Upon receipt of any such report, the Visitor may take such action and issue such
directions as he considers necessary in respect of any of the matters dealt with in the report
and the Institute shall.be bound to comply with such directions within reasonable time.

10. The following shall be the authorities of aii Institute, namely:—

(a) a Board of Governors;
(5) a Senate; and

. (c) such other authorities as may be declared by the Statutes to be the authorities
of the Institute.

1. The Board of every Institute shall consist of the following members, namely:— —
(a) the Chairperson to be nominated by the Visitor; .
(6) the Director, ex officio;

(c) two persons not below tlie rank of the Joint Secretary to the Government of
India to be nominated by the Central Government from amongst persons dealing with
: technical education and finance;

(d) two persons to be nominated byt the Government of the State in which the
Institute is situated, from amongst persons, who, in the opinion of that Government,
are technologists or industrialists of repute;

(e) two persons, at least one of whom shall be a wornan, having special knowledge
or practical experience in respect of education, engineering or scienceto be nominated
by.the Council; and . °

(f) one professor and one assistant professor or a lecturer of the Institute to be
nominated bythe Senate, —

72. Save as otherwise provided i in this section,—

(a) the term of office of the Chairperson or other members of the Board shall be three
years from the date of his nomination;

(b) the term of office of an ex officio member shall continue so. long as he holds the
office by virtue of which he is a member;

(c) the term of office of a member nominated under clause (f) of section n shall be
two years from the date of his nomination;

(d) acasual vacancy shall be filled up in accordance with the provisions of section 11;

/ (e) the term of office ofa member nominated to fill a casual vacancy shall continue for”
the remainder of the term of the member in whose place he has been nominated;

() the member of the Board shall be entitled to such allowances, if any, from the
Institute as may be provided for in the Statutes but no member other than the members
referred to in clauses (b) and (/) of section 11 shall be entitled to any salary by reason of this _
clause.


--- Page 5 ---
Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 35

aoe

13. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board of every Institute shall be
responsible for the general superintendence, direction and control of the affairs of the Institute
and shall exercise all the powers of the Institute not otherwise provided for by this Act, the
Statutes and the Ordinances, and shall have the power to review the acts of the Senate.

(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (J ) the Board of every Institute
shall,—

(a) take decisions on questions of policy relating to the administration and
working of the Institute;

(6) institute courses of study at the Institute;

(c) make Statutes;

() institute and appoint persons to academic as well as other posts in the Institute;
(2) consider and modify or cancel Ordinances;

(f) consider and pass resolutions on the annual report, the annual accounts and
- the budget estimates of the Institute for the next financial year as it thinks fit and
submit them to the Council together with a statement of its development plans;
(g) exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be conferred
or imposed upon it by this Act or the Statutes;

(3) The Board shall have the power to appoint such committees, as itconsiders necessary

for the exercise of its powers and the performance of its duties under this Act.
14. The Senate of every Institute shall consist of the following persons, namely:-—
(a) the Director, ex officio, who shall be the Chairman of the Senate;
(b) the Deputy Director, ex officio;
(c) the Professors appointed or recognised as such by the Institute for the purpose
of imparting instructions in the Institute;
(d) three persons, one of whom shall be a woman, not being employees of the

Institute, to be nominated by the Chairperson in consultation with the Director, from

amongst educationists of repute, one each from the field of science, engineering and

humanities; and
(e) such other members of the staff as may be-laid. down in 1 the Statute’.

15. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances, the Senate
of an Institute shall have the control and general regulation, and be responsible for the
maintenance of standards of instruction, education and examination in the Institute and shall

-exercise such other powers and perform such other duties‘as may be conferred or imposed
upon it by the Statutes. ,

16. (1) The Chairperson shall ordinarily preside at the meetings ‘of the Board and at
the Convocations of the Institute.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Chairperson to ensure that the decisions taken by the
Board are implemented.

(3) The Chairperson shail exercise such other powers and perform such other duties
as may be assigned to him by this Act or the Statutes.

- £7. (J) The Director and Deputy Director of an Institute shall be appointed ‘by the
Visitor, on such terms and conditions of service and on the recommendations of a Selection
Committee constituted by him in such manner, as may be prescribed by the Statutes.

(2) The Director shall be the principal academic and executive officer of the institute
and shall be responsible for the proper administration of the Institute and for the imparting
of instruction and maintenance of discipline therein.

(3) The Director shall submit annual reports and accounts to the Board.

(4) The Director shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties 2 as

may be assigned to him by this Act or the Statutes or Ordinances.

 

Powers and
functions of
Board.

Senate.

‘Functions of
Senate.

Chairperson of
Board. *

Director and
Deputy Director.


--- Page 6 ---
 

 

 

6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Parr II—

(5) The Deputy Director of every Institute shall exercise such powers and perform
such other duties as may be assigned to him by this Act or the Statutes or by the Director.

Registrar. 18. (1) The Registrar of every Institute shall be appointed on such terms and conditions
as may be laid down by the Statutes and shall be the custodian of records, the common seal,
the funds of the Institute and such other property of the Institute as the Board shall commit
to his charge.

(2) The Registrar shall act as the Secretary of the Board, Senate arid such committees
as may be prescribed by the Statutes. a ; ;

(3) The Registrar shall be responsible to the Director for the proper discharge of his
functions. ,

_ (4 The Registrar shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as
may be assigned to him by this Act or the Statutes or by the Director.

Other 19. The powers and duties of authorities and officers other than those mentioned above
authorities shall be determined by the Statutes,

and officers.

Grants by , 20. For the purpose of enabling the Institutes to discharge their functions efficiently
Cone ment under this Act, the Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by

law in this behalf, pay to every Institute in each financial year such sums of money and in
such manner as it may think fit. oO
Fund of . 21. (D Every Institute shall maintain a Fund to which shall be credited,—

institute. (a) all moneys provided by the Central Government;

1 (8) all fees and other charges received by the Institute: |

(c) all moneys received. by the Institute.by way of grants, gifts, donations,
benefactions, bequests or transfers; and a .

(@) all moneys received by the Institute in any other manner or from any other
source, — :

(2) All moneys credited to the Fund of every Institute shall be deposited in such banks
or invested in such manner as the Institute may, with the approval of the Central Government,
decide. . . oF

(3) The Fund of every Institute shall be applied towards meeting the expenses of the
Institute including expenses incurred in the exercise of its powers and discharge of its duties

under this Act.
Accounts and 22. (1) Every Institute shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records and
audit. prepare an annual statement of accounts including the balance sheet in such form as may be
specified by notification, by the Central Government in consultation with the Comptroller .

and Auditor-General of India,

(2) The accounts of every Institute shall be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India and any expenditure incurred by him in connection with such audit shall be
payable by the Institute to the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India. .

(3) The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and any person appointed by him in

connection with the audit of the accounts of any Institute shall have the same rights, privileges

. and authority in connection with such audit as the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India

has in connection with the audit of the Government accounts, and, in particular shall have

the rights to. demand the production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other
documents and papers and to inspect the offices of the Institute.”

(4) The accounts of every Institute as certified by the Comptroller and Auditor-General
of India or any other person appointed by him in this behalf together with the audit report
thereon shail be forwarded annually to the Central Government and that Government shall
cause the same to be laid before each House of Parliament in accordance with such procedure
as may be laid down by the Central Government, " a

 


--- Page 7 ---
 

 

w]

q

Sec.i] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 7

 

23. Every Institute shall constitute for the benefit of its employees such provident or
pension fund or provide such insurance scheme as it may deem fit in such manner and
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the Statutes.

24, All appointments of the staff of every Institute, except that of the Director and
Deputy Director, shall be made in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Statutes,
by—

(a) the Board, if the appointment is made on the academic staff in the post
of Lecturer or above or if the appointment is made on the non-academic staff in

any cadre the maximum of the pay scale for which exceeds rupees ten thousand five
hundred;

(8) the Director, in any other case.

25. Subject to the provisions of this Act, ‘the Statutes may provide for all or any of the
following matters, namely:—

(a) the conferment of honorary degrees 7
(4) the formation of departments of teaching;

(c) the fees to be charged for courses of study in the Institute and for admission
to the examinations of degrees and diplomas of the Institute;

(d) the institution of fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions, medals and prizes;
(e) the term of office andthe method of appointment of officers of the Institute;
(/) the qualifications of teachers of the Institute;

 

Pension and.
provident fund.

Appointments.

Statutes.

(g) the. classification, the method of appointment and the determination of the ~

terms and conditions of service of teachers and other staff of the Institute;

(A) the constitution of pension, insurance and provident funds for the benefit of
the officers, teachers and other staff of the Institute; :

(i) the constitution, powers and duties of the authorities of the Institute;

®

(/) the establishment and maintenance of halls and hostels;

(A) the conditions of residence of students of the Institute and the levying of fees

for residence in the halls and hostels and of other charges;
(D the allowances to be paid to the Chairperson and members of the Board;
(m) the authentication of the orders and decisions of the Board; and

(n) the meetings of the Board, the Senate, or any Committee, the quorum at such
meetings and the procedure to be followed in the conduct of their business.

26; (7) The first Statutes of each Institute shall be framed by the Central Government
with the prior approval of the Visitor and a copy of the same shall be laid as soon as may be
before each House of Parliament.

(2) The Board may, from time to time, make new or additional Statutes or may amend
or repeal the Statutes in the manner provided in this section.

(3) Every new Statute or addition to the Statutes or any amendment or repeal of Statutes
shall require the previous approval of the Visitor who may grant assent or withhold assent or
remit it to the Board for consideration.

(4) Anew Statute or a Statute amending or repealing an existing Statute shall have.no
validity unless it has been assented to by the Visitor.

®

Statutes how
madé. *


--- Page 8 ---
 

Ordinances.

Ordinances
how made. -

&

Tribunal of -
Aabitration.

Establishment
of Council.

8. A THE GAZETTE. OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II—

 

27, Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Statutes, the Ordinances of every
Institute may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:—

(a) the admission of the students to the Institute;

: (8) the courses of study to be laid down for all degrees and diplomas of the ©
Institute; - a co,
(c) the conditions under which students shall be admitted to the degree or diploma
courses and to the examinations of the Institute, and shall be eligible for degrees and
diplomas; / a
(@) the conditions of award of the fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions, medals
and prizes; /
(2) the conditions and mode of appointment and duties of examining bodies,
examiners and moderators; SO
(/) the conduct of examinations;
(g) the maintenance of discipline among the students of the Institute: and
(A) any other matter which by this Act or the Statutes is to be or may be provided
for by the Ordinances, .

28. (7) Save as otherwise provided in this section, Ordinances shall be made by the
Senate, . : - . .
(2) All Ordinances made by the Senate shall have effect from such date as it may
direct, but every Ordinance so made shall be submitted, as soon as may be, to the Board and
shall be considered by the Board at its next meeting.

- (3) The Board shall have power by resolution to modify or cancel any such Ordinance

and such Ordinance shall from the date of such resolution stand modified accordingly or
cancelled, as the case may be.

29. (1) Any dispute arising out ofa contract between an Institute and any ofits employees ~
Shall, at the request of the employee concerned or at the instance of the Institute, be referred
toa Tribunal of Arbitration consisting ofone member appointed by the Institute, ne member
nominated by the employee, and an umpire appointed by the Visitor, mo :

(2) The decision of the Tribunal shall be final and shall not be questioned in any court,

(3) No suit or proceeding shall lie in any court in respect of any matter, which is
required by sub-section (7) to be referred to the Tribunal of Arbitration,

(4) The Tribunal of Arbitration shall have power to regulate its own procedure.
_ ©) Nothing in any law for the time being in force relating to arbitration shall apply to
arbitrations under this section. ,
CHAPTER III
Tue Councn.

30. (2) With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification,
specify in this behalf, there shall be established for alt the Institutes specified in column (3)
of the Schedule, a central body to be called the Couticil. .

_ (2) The Council shall consist of the following members, namely:—

"= (a) the Minister: in charge of the Ministry or Department of the Central -
Government having administrative control of the technical education, ex officio, as

- Chairman; ,
(6) the: Secretary to the Government of India in charge of the Ministry or
Department of the Central Government having administrative control of the technical
education, 2x officio, as Vice-Chairman;

(c) the Chairperson of every Board, ex officio;

 


--- Page 9 ---
Sec. 1] ' THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 9

(d) the Director of every Institute, ex officio;
(e) the Chairman, University Grants Commission, ex officio; -
(f) the Director General, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, ex officio;

(g) four Secretaries to the Government of India, to represent the Ministries or
Departments of the Central Government dealing with biotechnology, atomic energy,
information technology and space, ex officio;

(A) the Chairman, All India Council for Technical Education, ex officio;

. (3) not less than three, but not more than five persons to be nominated by the
Visitor, at least one of whom shall be a woman, having special knowledge or practical
~ experience in respect of education, industry, science or technology;

(j) three members of Parliament, of whom two shall be chosen bythe House of
the People and one by the Council of States: .

Provided that the office of member of the Council shail not disqualify its holder
for being chosen as or for being, a member of either House of Parliament;

(k) two Secretaries to the State Government, from amongst the Ministries or

Departments of that Government dealing with technical education where the Institutes

are located, ex officio;

(2) Financial Advisor, dealing with the Human Resource Development Ministry
or Department of the Central Government, ex officio;

(m) one officer not below the rank of Joint Secretary to the Government of India
in the Ministry or Department of Central Government having administrative control
of the Technical Education, ex officio, as Member-Secretary.

31. (7) The terms of office of a member shall be three years from the date of notification:

_ Provided that the term of office of an ex officio member shall continue so long as he
holds office by virtue of which he is such a member. . /

(2) The term of office of a member elected under clause (j) of sub-section (2) of
section 30 shall expire as soon as he ceases to be member of the House, which elected him.

(3) The term of office of a member nominated or elected to fill a causal vacancy shall
continue for.the remainder of the term of the member in whose place he has been appointed.

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section an outgoirig member shall,
unless the Central Government otherwise directs, continue in office until another person is
appointed as a member in his place.

(5) The members of the Council other than ex officio member shall be paid such
travelling and other allowances as may be prescribed.

32. (1) It shall be the general duty of the Council to co-ordinate the activities ofall the
Institutes. .

(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (Z), the Council shall perform
the following functions, namely:—

' (a) to advise on matters relating to the duration of the courses, the degrees and
other academic distinctions to be conferred by the Institutes, admission standards and
other academic matters; oo , :

(4) to lay down policy regarding cadrés, methods of recruitment and conditions
of service of employees, institution of scholarships and freeships, levying of fees and
other matters of common interest;

(c) to examine the development plans of each Institute and to approve such of
them as are considered necessary and also to indicate broadly the financial implications
of such approved plans; ,

(d) to advise the Visitor, ifso required, in respect of any function to be performed

by him under this Act; and :
(2) to perform such other functions as are assigned to it by or under this Act.

Term of office
of, vacancies
among, and
allowances
payable to
members of
Council.

Functions of
Council.

©

 


--- Page 10 ---
TSA.
SS

dew

Chairman of
Council,

Power ta make
Tules in respect
of matters in
this Chapter.

Acts and

proceedings not
to be invalidated
by vacancies, etc.

Power to
remove
difficulties.

Transitional
provisions,

10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY (Parr II—
: :

 

33. (7) The Chairman of the Council shall ordinarily preside at the meetings of the Council:

Provided that, in his absence, the Vice-Chairman of the Council shall preside at the
meetings of the Council.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Chairman of the Council to ensure that the decisions
taken by the Council are implemented.

(3) The Chairman shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as
are assigned to him by this Act. - °

_ (4) The Council shall meet once in every year and follow such procedure in its meetings
as may be prescribed.

34, (1). The Central Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
purposes of this Chapter. ,

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such

Tules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:—~

(a) the travelling and other allowances payable to members of the Council under
sub-section (5) of section 31; and

(6) the procedure to be followed in the meetings of the council under sub-section
(4) of section 33,

(3) Every rule made by the Central Government under this Chapter shall be laid, as
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or -more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the
session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification
in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter
have effect only in such modifiéd form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of ariy-
thing previously done under that rule.

CHAPTER IV 5

»
°

MISCELLANEOUS

35. No act of the Council, or any Institute or Board or Senate or any other body set up.
under this Act or the Statutes, shall be invalid merely by reason of—

(a) any vacancy or defect in the constitution thereof, or

(4) any defect in the election, nomination or appointment of a person acting asa
member thereof, or

(c) any irregularity in its procedure not affecting the merits of the case.

36. (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act the Central
Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as may appear to it to be necessary or expedient
for removing the difficulty: eo

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of two years
from the date on which this Act receives the assent of the President.

(2) Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be
laid before each House of Parliament.

37. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act—

(a) the Board of Governors of every Institute functioning as such immediately
before the commencement of this Act shall continue to so function until a new Board
is constituted for that Institute under this Act, but on the constitution of a new Board
under this Act, the member of the Board holding office before such constitution shall
cease to hold office; ,

 


--- Page 11 ---
 

 

 

 

Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY ii

 

(b) every Senate constituted in relation to every Institute before the
commencement of this Act shall be deeméd to be the Senate constituted under this Act
until a Senate is constituted under this Act for that Institute but on the constitution of
new Senate under this Act, the members of the Senate holding office before such
constitution shal! cease to hold office.

my
