
--- Page 1 ---
   

Memorandum of Understanding

between
National Institute of Technology, Warangal, Telangana State,
and

National Institute of Technology, Agartala, Tripura State.

Contract Partners :

National Institute of Technology Warangal (NITW),Telangana State and
National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA), Tripura State

Principal Agreement :

National Institute of Technology Warangal, Telangana State(NITW) and
National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA), agree to enter into a a
bilateral agreement for a tie-up to facilitate academic and _ technical
collaboration and therefore, the two Institutes, NITW and NITA, are signing
a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on the 20" day of April, 2015, as
per the articles set below.

Article-1.0: THE SCOPE OF MOU:

The scope of MOU covers collaborative R&D, academic interaction leading to
reforms in curriculum, student exchange associated with transfer of credits,
faculty exchange, sharing of e-resources, accessibility to sophisticated
instruments, sharing of knowledge of best practices.

Article-2.0

The activities under the agreement will be as described below for
collaboration and which form the schedule to this MOU. This schedule may
be amended by mutual agreement.

— ee Page lof 4
—_—_—_—_——”

 
 

OSs Ss ao,
TOMES Getic;

 

Dr. Gopal Mugeraya)
Director,
National Institute of Technology
Agartala

Giréctor

National institute of Technof oy, Warangal
wet eal

ee


--- Page 2 ---
Article-2.1

NITW and NITA will submit collaborative research projects to various funding
agencies like DST, CSIR, etc. in the topics and areas of mutual interest. The
sharing of fund and manpower will be case specific and depending on the
detailing of the project concerned.

Article - 2.2

The instrumentation facilities, Laboratory and Library facilities of one of the
institutes will be made available for the research scholars, UG/PG students
doing their projects, faculty members working in the other institute.
Wherever charges are to be paid, concessional charges as decided by the
facility-providing institute will be paid from the funds of the joint-research
projects or research projects/other funds of the other institute.

Article-2.3

The faculty members of each of the institutes may teach part of the courses
or give expert lectures at the other institute through video-conferencing
mode using NKN or possible media without prejudice to their work and
responsibilities at their home institute.

Article -— 2.4

The UG/PG students of each of the institutes can take courses or do
projectworks/dissertationworks in the other institute (host institute). The
credits earned by the students in the host institute will be transferred to the
home institute and will be considered for the purpose of grading by mapping
to the courses and credits as per the curriculum of the home/ parent
institute. Project guidance and its continuous evaluation will be done by the
faculty member (external guide) at the host institute. One faculty member
(internal guide) at the home institute will also be assigned to each of such
projects. Dissertation/project report will be submitted to the home institute
through the internal guide for final evaluation. Grading of the
projects/dissertations will be done, based on continuous and final evaluation
as per the grading procedure of the home institute.

Article - 2.5
NITW and NITA will organize National/International Conferences/ Seminars/
Symposia/workshops jointly in conformity to the rules and regulation of both
the institutes.

af

e et
aaa _FrieaTes ‘i Page 2 of 4
Bg Wiis! cena, ada

Director Dr. Gopal Mugeraya)

National Institute of Technology, Warangal Director,
National Institute of Technology
Agartala.


--- Page 3 ---
Article — 3.1

In addition, it is envisaged that each activity, that the parties wish to pursue
in accordance with the purpose of this MOU will be governed by terms and
conditions to be separately negotiated and mutually agreed upon by the
parties through the signing of one or more subsidiary agreements.

Article - 3.2
Any clause or article of the MOU may be modified or amended by mutual
agreement of NITW and NITA.

Article-4.1

In case of joint research projects, the research findings, patents and all
other intellectual property rights shall exclusively be owned by NITW and
NITA.

Article-4.2

The expenditure connected with securing and maintaining the Intellectual
Property Rights shall be shared between the two institutes (NITW and NITA)
proportionally, based on their respective intellectual, material and financial
contributions and decided on a case-to-case basis.

Article — 5.1

This MOU shall be effective for an initial period of five years from the date of
signing. Thereafter, this MOU may be extended for further periods of five
years or for any other period of time as deemed appropriate by both the
parties, subject to their mutual consent of any such extension to be made in
writing.

Article — 5.2
Either party may terminate this MOU by giving a written notice of
termination of at least three months in advance.

Article - 5.3

In the event of termination of MOU, for whatever reasons, both parties
agree to fulfil their respective commitments in respect of the students,
research scholars, faculty involved in the activities which are in vogue during
such termination time and MOU will be considered to be in force till
completion of such activities.

faestes
ea ‘ De aget « Page 3 of 4
BISe witiitiat seaa, ada
Diréctor , Dr. Gopal Mugeraya)

Director,
National Institute of Technology
Agartala.

National institute of Technology, Warangal


--- Page 4 ---
Article -— 6.0
Arbitration

In case of any dispute arising out of this agreement, the heads of the
institutes shall endeavour to resolve such controversy or dispute by mutual

discussions and in good faith.

This MoU between NITW, and the NITA, Tripura is now established by the
signatures of the Directors of the two institutes.

For NITWarangal

Boh glue

___.. (Prof. T.Stiliivasa Rao)
cr UpHBatoneet clear, aday

k

NITWarangal,Felangana State
National Institute of Technology, Warangal

Witnesses:

1 Bpryorse
CB-V: APPAR AS.
NIT Warangal t/el%ous .

-

» REVAKT

Cb RBV S UGRAMAN YAm )
NIT Warangal

For NIT Agartala

——$————
————_——

(Prof. Gopal Mugeraya)
Director
NIT Agartala, Tripura State

,Dr. Gopal Mugeraya)
Director,

National institute of Technology 7]
Agartala. pret
1. N

oth

2

[Pool hb. thdviA

NIT Agartala

Page 4 of 4
