
--- Page 1 ---
   

Memorandum of Understanding

For Academic and Technical Cooperation
between
National Institute of Technology Karnataka, Surathkal
and

National Institute of Technology Agartala, Tripura.

1. Contract Partners :
11 National Institute of Technology Karnataka (NITK) Surathkal,

Karnataka
1:2 National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA), Tripura

2. Principal Agreement :

National Institute of Technology Karnataka, Surathkal, and National
Institute of Technology Agartala, wish to establish a bilateral agreement
for a tie-up to facilitate academic and technical exchange of ideas and
knowledge. Therefore, the two Institutes, NITK and NITA, are signing a
Memorandum of Understanding on this the 1st day of December, 2014, as
per details given below.

3. Responsibilities of NITK, Surathkal & NITA, Tripura:

3.1 Joint research projects in topics and areas of mutual interest and
joint commercialization of projects as appropriate.

3.2 Both the parties shall regularly exchange technical ideas and know-
how related to education and research.

3.3 Joint sponsorship of International seminars and bilateral symposia.

3.4 Both the parties shall arrange expert lecture to facilitate knowledge
sharing.

3.5 Promotion of each other’s research achievements.

3.6 Exchange of faculty, students, technical and research staff.

3.7 Both the parties shall jointly work together in the field of
consultancy.

3.8 Both parties shall share Library resources.

3.9 Both parties shall have representatives from each other on various
academic bodies on a reciprocal basis.

3.10 Both parties will facilitate Credit Transfer across the two Institutes.

1/3 ce a ry,


--- Page 2 ---
4. Intell 1 Pr "

Reports of the technical research done in Engineering, Sciences &
Management at NITK and NITA will be shared periodically by both the
parties. The IPR generated by such activities will be jointly held by both
the parties and the extent of sharing will be decided on a case-to-case
basis.

5. Programme Management:

The partners will set up a Steering Committee (SC), which will deal with
all issues concerning the program. Representatives from both the
institutions will be members of the SC. The SC will be the decision
making body for the entire Program.

6. Change of Status:

Should the future of one of the party be changed at any time, whether
this is voluntary or compulsory, which would in any way change the legal
status of the party under this agreement, then the party should
immediately notify the other partner. Each party reserves the right to
terminate this agreement in case the other partner significantly changes
its status or should its future be in doubt in any way. The partners should
ensure that in any discussions about status or future doubts, its
obligations under this agreement remain paramount and are sufficiently
protected to ensure continuity.

7. Termination of the agreement :

This agreement can only be terminated by any one of the partners :

a) From one of the partners immediately if the assessment of the pilot
phase is not satisfactory.

b) From one of the partners within 12 months.

c) From one of the partners immediately, if there is a breach of
agreement.

d) From one of the partners immediately, if there is a disbelief of the legal
status.

e) In case of insolvency, liquidation or other formal annulment
immediately.

f) In case of termination of this MoU, all ongoing projects/activities will
be allowed to continue till the completion of the projects/activities.

g) The-termination can be effected only through a written document.

? C4,

2/3


--- Page 3 ---
This MoU between NITK, Surathkal, Karnataka, and the NIT Agartala,
Tripura is now established by the signature of the representatives of
the two institutions. This MoU will be valid for an initial period of 5
years and can be renewed for a further period by mutual agreement.

For NITK, Surathkal for NIT Agartala, Tripura
oo
(Prof. Swapan Bhattacharya) (Prof. Gopal Mugeraya)
Director Director
NITK, Surathkal, Karnataka NIT Agartala, Tripura
Director
National Institute of Technology Karnataka
Surathkal, Mangatore-575 02>
Place : NUK», SurathvKal Place : NITK, Surathkal
Date: O]-\2- oly Date: O1-12- 2014

Witnesses \w Ne.

1. Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti 1. Shri. K. Ravindranath
Registrar, NIT Agartala Registrar, NITK, Surathkal
ptr Sa Sek Moths de tk

2. Dr. Ardhendu Saha, 2. Dr. M. B. Saidutta
Cordinator, TEQIP-II Dean (AA & IR)

NIT Agartala NITK, Surathkal

Ee;

3. Dr.Jd. WN. ROy,
HOD, Physics Deptt.
NIT Agartala.

3/3
