
--- Page 1 ---
jftLVªh lañ Mhñ ,yñ—(,u)04@0007@2003—14
REGISTERED NO. DL—(N)04/0007/2003—14
vlk/kkj.k
EXTRAORDINARY
Hkkx [k.M
II — 1
PART II—Section 1
izkf/kdkj ls izdkf'kr
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
lañ ubZ fnYyh] cq/kokj] ekpZ 5] 2014@ QkYxqu 14] 1935 ¼'kd½
10]
No. 10] NEW DELHI, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5, 2014/PHALGUNA 14, 1935 (SAKA)
bl Hkkx esa fHkUu i`"B la[;k nh tkrh gS ftlls fd ;g vyx ladyu ds :i esa j[kk tk ldsA
Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation.
MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE
(Legislative Department)
New Delhi, the 5th March, 2014/Phalguna 14, 1935 (Saka)
The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the President on the
4th March, 2014, and is hereby published for general information:—
THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF TECHNOLOGY, SCIENCE
EDUCATION AND RESEARCH (AMENDMENT)
ACT, 2014
(NO. 9 OF 2014)
[4th March, 2014.]
An Act further to amend the National Institutes of Technology, Science
Education and Research Act, 2007.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
1. (1) This Act may be called the National Institutes of Technology, Science Education Short title and
and Research (Amendment) Act, 2014. commencement.
(2) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2. In section 2 of the National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research Amendment
29 of 2007. Act, 2007 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), for the words “the First Schedule and of section 2.
the Second Schedule”, the words “the First Schedule, the Second Schedule and the Third
Schedule” shall be substituted.

--- Page 2 ---
2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [PART II—
Amendment 3. In section 3 of the principal Act,—
of section 3.
(i) in clause (c), for the words “the First Schedule and the Second Schedule” at
both the places where they occur, the words “the First Schedule, the Second Schedule
and the Third Schedule” shall be substituted;
(ii) in clause (d), the words, brackets, figures and letter “or sub-section (1) of
section 30A” shall be omitted;
(iii) in clauses (g), (k) and (m), for the words “the First Schedule and the Second
Schedule” wherever they occur, the words “the First Schedule, the Second Schedule
and the Third Schedule” shall be substituted.
Amendment 4. In section 4 of the principal Act,—
of section 4.
(a) in sub-section (1), for the words “the First Schedule and the Second Schedule”,
the words “the First Schedule, the Second Schedule and the Third Schedule” shall be
substituted;
(b) after sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—
“(1A) The Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur shall be
deemed to have been incorporated under this Act, and on such incorporation,
be called the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur.”.
Insertion of 5. After section 5 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:—
new section
5A.
“5A. On and from the commencement of the National Institutes of Technology,
Effect of
incorporation Science Education and Research (Amendment) Act, 2014—
of Bengal
Engineering (a) any reference to the Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur
and Science in any law, contract or other instrument shall be deemed as a reference to the
University, Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur;
Shibpur.
(b) all property, movable and immovable, of or belonging to the Bengal
Engineering and Science University, Shibpur, shall vest in the Indian Institute of
Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur;
(c) all the rights and liabilities of the Bengal Engineering and Science
University, Shibpur shall be the rights and liabilities of the Indian Institute of
Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur;
(d) every person (including Director, officers and other employees) who is
employed in the Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur, immediately
before the date of commencement of the National Institutes of Technology,
Science Education and Research (Amendment) Act, 2014, shall, on and after
such commencement, become an employee of the Indian Institute of Engineering
Science and Technology, Shibpur and shall hold his office or service by the
same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions
and with the same rights and privileges as to pension, leave, gratuity, provident
fund and other matters as he would have held the same on the date of the
commencement of the National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and
Research (Amendment) Act, 2014, as if the said Act had not been brought into
force and shall continue to do so until his employment is terminated or until
such tenure, remuneration, terms and conditions are altered by the Statutes or
Ordinances:
Provided that the tenure, remuneration, terms and conditions of service of
such person shall not be altered to his disadvantage without the previous
approval of the Central Government:
Provided further that any reference to the Chancellor and the
Vice-Chancellor of the Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur in

--- Page 3 ---
SEC. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 3
any law, instrument or other document made before the commencement of the said
Act, shall be construed as a reference to the Visitor and the Director, respectively,
of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur;
(e) Vice-Chancellor of the Bengal Engineering and Science University,
Shibpur shall be the Director of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and
Technology, Shibpur till such date the Central Government appoints new Director
for the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur;
(f) any examination conducted by the Bengal Engineering and Science
University, Shibpur immediately before the commencement of the National
Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research (Amendment)
Act, 2014 for admission or award of degrees shall be valid examination and
shall be deemed to have been conducted by the Indian Institute of Engineering
Science and Technology, Shibpur.”.
6. In section 11A of the principal Act,— Amendment of
section 11A.
(a) in the marginal heading, for the words “Second Schedule”, the words “Second
Schedule and Third Schedule” shall be substituted;
(b) in the opening portion, for the words “the Second Schedule”, the words “the
Second Schedule and the Third Schedule” shall be substituted.
7. In section 30 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), after the words “the First Amendment
Schedule”, the words “the Second Schedule and the Third Schedule” shall be inserted. of section 30.
8. Section 30A of the principal Act shall be omitted. Omission of
section 30A.
9. In section 31 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), the words, brackets, letters Amendment of
and figures “and clause (j) of sub-section (2) of section 30A” shall be omitted. section 31.
10. In section 37 of the principal Act, after clause (d), the following clauses shall be Amendment of
inserted, namely:— section 37.
“(e) the court, the Academic Council and the Executive Council of the Bengal
Engineering and Science University, Shibpur performing functions as such
immediately before the commencement of the National Institutes of Technology,
Science Education and Research (Amendment) Act, 2014 shall continue to function
until a Board is constituted for the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and
Technology, Shibpur under this Act, but on and after the constitution of a Board
under this Act, the members of the court, the Academic Council and the Executive
Council, shall cease to hold office;
(f) the authorities of the Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur, by
whatever names so called, performing functions as such immediately before the
commencement of the National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and
Research (Amendment) Act, 2014 shall continue to function until a new Authority is
appointed or constituted for performing the same functions under the said Act, but on
and after such appointment or constitution, the authorities performing the functions
13 of 2004. under the Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur Act, 2004 or any Statutes
or Ordinances made thereunder shall cease to hold office;
(g) every Senate or any other authorities in the names so called constituted in
relation to every Institute before the commencement of the National Institutes of Technology,
Science Education and Research (Amendment) Act, 2014 shall be deemed to be the Senate
constituted under the said Act until a new Senate is constituted under this Act for that
Institute, but on the constitution of a new Senate under this Act, the members of the Senate
holding office before such constitution shall cease to hold office;
(h) until the first Statutes and the Ordinances are made and brought in force
under the National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research
(Amendment) Act, 2014, the Statutes, Ordinances and rules made for the

--- Page 4 ---
4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [PART II— SEC. 1]
Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur immediately before the
commencement of the said Act shall continue to apply to the Indian Institute of
Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur in so far as they are not inconsistent
with the provisions of the said Act.”.
Power to 11. (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of the National Institutes
remove of Technology, Science Education and Research (Amendment) Act, 2014, the Central
difficulties. Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to be necessary or expedient for
removing the difficulty:
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of two years from the date of
commencement of this Act.
(2) Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid
before each House of Parliament.
Amendment of 12. After the Second Schedule of the principal Act, the following Schedule shall be
Schedule. inserted, namely:—
“THE THIRD SCHEDULE
[See sections 3(g),(k), (m), 4(1) and 11A]
LIST OF INDIAN INSTITUTES OF ENGINEERING SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Sl. University or Society Corresponding Institute
No.
(1) (2) (3)
Bengal Engineering and Science Indian Institute of Engineering
University, Shibpur. Science and Technology, Shibpur.”.
Repeal and 13. (1) The Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur Act, 2004 is hereby 13 of 2004.
savings. repealed.
(2) The provisions of the General Clauses Act, 1897 shall apply to the repeal of the 10 of 1897.
said Act as if the Act referred to in sub-section (1) were a Central Act.
(3) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the
repealed Act, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions
of that Act, as amended by this Act.
—————
P.K. MALHOTRA,
Secy. to the Govt. of India.
PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD, NEW DELHI
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI—2014.
GMGIPMRND—4814GI(S3)—05-03-2014.