
--- Page 1 ---
TSE Wall FA SRA
_ National Institute of Technology,Agartala
Agartala - 799 046 (Tripura)

 

 

NITA.74 (52)/CW/Notification/2022/3 7 6,0 — 66  Date-23.07.2025
a
NOTICE “7

All the hostellers of UG, PG and PhD are hereby informed to pay their hostel fee (Hostel rent + Mess
fee) through MIS from 25" July 2025 to 03 August 2025 only.
Existing hostellers can pay hostel fees following the procedures given below:

Online Payment — SBI EPAY ~—Common payment Interface —Select Receipt Type =
Hostel Fee pay

Bank Loan Cases:

1. Students who pay Hostel fees through loan should inform their loan sanctioning authority to transfer
the Academic fees/Hostel Fees from their bank to their Virtual Account Number (VAN) that is
linked to the Institute. The VAN account number of each student is linked to an account of the
institute with IFSC SBIN0011491.

i. Students can find the VAN information in the General Info section of their MIS account.
ii. | Tosee this information, the Students should log in to their MIS account and visit the
link : Academic — Admission — Update Information.
iii. | After successful transfer from the bank to the Institute, the students should then update their
loan details and upload supporting documents to their MIS account
Academic = Admission <> Upload Document = Select loan document — Upload

documents.

After completion of hostel fee payment formalities, payment slip must be submitted to respective hostel
office. Students availing the Bihar students credit card scheme are requested to submit their
disbursement slip to chiefwardennita@gmail.com |

Note: 1. Fee payment through VAN account must be done separately for hostel and academic fee
(separate transaction ID is required)
2. Hostel room will be allotted only after requisite hostel fee payment/ Submission of loan

disbursement document /
Chief Warden,
NIT Agartala
Copy to:-

1. PS to the Director,NIT Agartala, for kind information of the Director.

2. PS to the Director, [IIT Agartala, for kind information of the Director.

3. The Dean (SW-I and SW-II). NIT Agartala. For kind information.

4. The Registrar NIT Agartala, for kind information.

5. All Wardens and Supervisors of NITA Hostel for necessary action please.

6. System administrator for information with a request to upload the same.

7. Faculty in-charge MIS for kind information and necessary action.

 

NIT Agartala
