
--- Page 1 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC

nitadeanacademic@gmail.com

F.No.NITA.13/(27-CSE)/EDC/S W/MIS/IMPLEMENTATION/2012-13 A-1404 Dated..17./12/2023

 

 

Notice

All the Departments are informed that the financial disbursement regarding the
PhD monthly scholarship depends on the working report submitted and recommended by the
Supervisor(s) of the scholar and HOD of the Department in which the scholar is enrolled.

The scholarship for Regular PhD scholars will be disbursed every month through the
MIS module, Supervisor(s) will verify, modify and forward the application online to the HoD
and the HoD will forward the application to the Scholarship Section. M.Tech scholarships
will be disbursed in manual mode till notified.

In this regard, it is also mentioned that the Supervisor(s) of each /PhD scholar is
responsible for monitoring performance/development and attendance records. After the
Supervisor’s verification and recommendation by HOD, the Quarter and Electricity charges
will only be deducted as applicable and the final amount will be disbursed. The Supervisor(s)
& HODs are requested to verify the attendance and monthly amount of the scholarship
meticulously. Also, HODs are requested to consider applications for online scholarships only
for the current month.

All the Ph.D scholars are advised to follow the below mentioned link of their
respective account in MIS (ADMINISTRATIVE>SSTIPEND>TRANSACTIONS>
APPLY ONLINE STIPEND).

This is issued with the approval of the Competent Authority.

 

Prof. Swapan Bhaumik

Dean(Academic Affairs)
Copy to:
1. PS to the Director, NIT Agartala for kind information of the Director.
2. Registrar, NIT Agartala for kind information.
3. All H.O.Ds for kind information.
4. Estate section, NITA to facilitate Stipend Section with the information of monthly
house rent and electricity bill for Ph.D scholars.
5. Audit Officer for necessary action.
6. Dy Registrar (AA) for necessary action
7. Dy Registrar (F &A) for disbursement and voucher number entry at his section
8. Faculty in charge MIS for kind information.
9. System administrator with a request to upload to the Institute websit

 
  

Dean(Acadeinig Affairs)

Barjala, Agartala-799046, India. website- www.nita.ac.in
