
--- Page 1 ---
National Overseas Scholarship for SC etc. Candidates
(Applicable from the year 2025-26)
1 Objective of the Scheme
The Central Sector Scheme of National Overseas Scholarship is to facilitate
the low income students belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Denotified Nomadic
and Semi-Nomadic Tribes, Landless Agricultural Labourers and Traditional
Artisans category to obtain higher education viz., Master degree or Ph.D courses by
studying abroad thereby improving their Economic and Social status.
2 Scope
a. The Scheme provides financial assistance to the selected candidates for
pursuing Masters level courses and Ph.D. courses abroad in
Institutions/Universities accredited by the Government/authorized body of that
country in any field of study.
b. In each Selection Year, 125 fresh awards, subject to availability of funds, will
be given under the Scheme. However, there will be a cap of 10% of the total slots
i.e. Scheduled Castes, Denotified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Tribes and
landless Agricultural Labourers and Traditional Artisans for each State while
allotting the slots. In case, the slots in the 1st round of selection remains unfilled
after applying the 10% cap, these slots will be filled in 2nd round.
c. The following will be the category-wise distribution of slots for various groups
eligible for scholarships under the scheme:
S. No. Category Numbers
a) Scheduled Castes 115
b) Denotified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Tribes 06
c) Landless Agricultural Labourers and Traditional 04
Artisans
Total slots 125
d. Definitions:
i. Landless agricultural laborer means an individual and their family members
who do not own any property, land, or business and whose principal means of
livelihood is manual labour on agricultural land.
ii. Traditional artisans means individuals and their families who earn their
livelihood through traditional artisanal practices.

--- Page 2 ---
e. If for any specific year, successful candidates are not available to the extent
prescribed for each of the above listed categories, the awards for that year will
become open for candidates belonging to other categories mentioned above as per
merit criteria under the scheme.
f. 30% of the awards for each year shall be earmarked for women candidates.
However, in case, adequate women candidates are not available as per the
stipulations of the scheme, then the unutilized slots will be utilized by selecting
suitable male candidates.
g. Bachelors Level courses in any discipline are not covered under the Scheme.
h. Candidates already staying or studying or having completed studies abroad in
any course by utilizing any other scholarship from Central Government, State
Government, other agency, or through own funds are not eligible to apply under
NOS.
i. Candidates having unconditional offer of admission to top 500 ranked foreign
Institutes/Universities as per the latest available QS World University Rankings
for the year 2025 only will be selected for grant of scholarship during the first
round of selection. The QS ranking of the University for its campus in any other
country will be considered as per the QS ranking of the University Campus in that
country. If there is no QS ranking available for its campus in other country then it
will not be considered. In the second round of selection in the year, the following
priority will be given:
(i) Candidates having unconditional offer letter of
admission from Top 500 QS Ranking Institutions applying in the
second cycle.
(ii) Candidates having unconditional offer letter of admission from other
QS ranked Institutions, who have applied for scholarship under the
scheme during the previous cycles or current cycle of the current year
for admission.
(iii) Candidates having unconditional offer letter of admission from
other recognized Institutions, who have applied for scholarship under the
scheme during the previous cycles or current cycle of the current cycle
for admission.
However, any financial condition mentioned in the offer of admission such as
deposit of fee or any other amount, or proof of source of funds, shall not be a
bar for consideration of application under the Scheme guidelines.
3 Minimum Qualification
In order to be eligible for scholarship, at least 60% marks or equivalent
grade in the qualifying examination would be required. In case of Ph. D

--- Page 3 ---
courses, the qualifying exam would be Master’s Degree and for Master’s
Degree courses, the qualifying examination would be Bachelor's Degree. In
case a student has completed Bachelor's of Engineering after completing
Diploma (Lateral Entry to 2nd year), percentage of marks obtained in
Bachelor's degree will be taken into account.
For any University, percentage would be calculated on the basis of the
marks obtained by the applicant in various semesters/ terms. Marksheet for all
semesters is to be provided. Wherein the University provides only the CGPA
and not the numerical marks, a formula for conversion of CGPA to numerical
marks bearing authentication by the University should invariably be provided.
In case marksheets for all semesters/terms are not submitted with the
application form the candidature of the applicant will be rejected. Likewise, if
the formula of conversion of CGPA (wherever applicable) are not submitted by
the applicant with his application form, the candidature would be rejected. No
representations, in this regard, in either case will be entertained.
4 Age
Not more than 35 (Thirty Five) years, as on first day of April for selection
year.
5 Income Ceiling
Gross annual family income from all sources shall not exceed Rs. 8.00 lakh
per annum in the preceding financial year as detailed in para 8 c of these guidelines.
The income certificate should be issued by a Revenue Officer not below the rank of
“Tehsildar”. The students will submit the complete ITR/ITRs along with the
Centralized Processing Centre (CPC) intimation order under Section 143(1) issued
by the IT Department in respect of self and other family members before issuance
of final award letter but the ITR acknowledgement should be submitted at the time
of applying on the portal where Gross annual family income for the F.Y. 2023-24 is
more than Rs. 2.5 Lakh in Old Tax Regime and Rs. 3.0 Lakh in New Tax Regime.
The income certificate should either be in digital, prescribed format of Central/State
Govt. or on the letter head of the issuing authority.
6 Family
Under the Scheme, for determination of family income, the family will be
considered as following:
“The candidate applying for scholarship, his/her parents and siblings below
the age of 18 years, his/her spouse and also children below the age of 18 years.”

--- Page 4 ---
Note: In case of married women, income of the in-laws and her spouse and children
below the age of 18 years will be considered.
7 Maximum Number of children in a family for the award
An awardee cannot be considered for the award for a second time as the
award can be given only once. Not more than two children of the same
parents/guardians will be eligible for scholarship under the scheme and a self-
certification will be required from the candidate to this effect. The second child of
the same parents/guardians will be considered only if slots are still available in the
last cycle of the year in which the applicant has applied.
8. Application Procedure
a. The scheme will be advertised in the news papers/other media giving
summarized information about the Scheme. The candidates, after assessing
their eligibility and suitability, as per the eligibility conditions of the Scheme
Guidelines, can apply online to this Ministry on the portal,
i.e., www.nosmsje.gov.in.
b. The selection year period would be April-March of each year. The portal shall
be opened for calling of applications for the first round in February/March for a
period of 40 days for inviting of applications online and after this period, the
portal will be opened again for 4 days to allow the candidates to make
corrections, if any, in the submitted applications (before the beginning of
selection year) and only online applications received shall be considered for
award of selection. In case the slots remains unfilled, the portal will be opened
again for the second cycle in September/October for a period of 40 days for
inviting of applications online and after this period, the portal will be opened
again for 4 days to allow the candidates to make corrections, if any, in the
submitted applications in each selection year.
c. For the first round of each Selection Year, gross annual family income for last
completed financial year will be taken into account for the purpose of selection.
For the second round, the gross annual family income for the previous
completed financial year will be taken into account for purpose of selection.
For example, for the selection year 2025-26, online portal for inviting
applications of NOS Scholarship for first round will be opened
in February/March 2025 for a period of 40 days for inviting of applications
online and 4 days will be given for correction and gross annual family income
for financial year 2023-24 will be taken into account for purpose of selection.
However, in such cases where gross annual family income for FY 2023-24 is
more than Rs.2.5 lakh in Old Tax Regime and Rs. 3.0 Lakh in New Tax
Regime, then in such cases gross annual family income for the financial year
2024-25 i.e. last completed financial year will also be taken into account before
issuance of the final award letter besides gross annual family income for the

--- Page 5 ---
financial year 2023-24 (to be furnished during the application submission
process) and scholarship will be granted to the candidate subject to the
condition that his/her gross annual family income for the financial year 2024-
25 is less than Rs.8.00 lakh. Failing this, the provisional award letter issued to
the candidate will stand cancelled. The portal for second round will be
opened in September/October for a period of 40 days for inviting of
applications online and 4 days will be given for correction and for that gross
annual family income for financial year 2024-25 will be taken into account for
purpose of selection.
d. Online applications complete in all respects only shall be considered for
award. All the incomplete applications will be summarily rejected. However,
the rejected candidates/Non-selected candidates will have the option to apply in
subsequent phases of selection. The candidates are required to submit
documents as per the attached Annexure I.
e. Grievances in connection with results will be entertained for upto 30 calendar
days from the publication of the Result on the portal and the inadvertent
mistakes occurred at the time of scrutiny of the application of the candidate
will only be considered. No additional documents will be accepted and
considered during the redressal period of Grievance.
f. For determining the eligibility of a candidate against a quota reserved for a
particular State/UT, the State/UT that issued the Caste Certificate will be
considered as his/her State/UT for the purpose of quota eligibility.
9 Selection Procedures
a. Only candidates who have submitted their Aadhar card and obtained
unconditional offer of admission from one of the foreign Institutions/
Universities which are in the list of top 500 QS world ranked institutions/
universities from the academic session 2025-26 and onward shall be considered
for award of scholarship for studying in that Institution/University subject to
fulfillment of other eligibility conditions of the Scheme. However, in case the
students are unable to submit their Aadhar Card on the portal at the time of
application, they will be asked to mandatorily submit their Aadhar ID/Aadhar
EID before the issue of final award letter/confirmation letter failing which the
provisional award letter issued to them would be revoked.
b. No request for change of Institution/University shall be entertained. In case the
selected candidate desires to change the course or university, he/she can apply
afresh in the next available round.
c. There will be only two round of Selection. For every cycle of selection, merit
list of the eligible candidates shall be drawn up on the basis of the rank, as per
the latest available QS ranking, of the foreign Universities/Institutions from
where the candidate has received the offer of admission and scholarships shall

--- Page 6 ---
be awarded in order of this merit. The candidates holding an offer letter from
the higher ranked University/ Institution will be ranked higher in the merit list.
In case of a tie between the QS rankings of two or more candidates, their
position in merit will be decided on the basis of the marks/grades secured by
the candidate in the qualifying examination for the higher studies for which the
scholarship has been applied for.
d. The online applications of the eligible candidates shall be placed before the
Selection-cum-Screening Committee for making their recommendations for
selection and ranking of the eligible candidates for scholarship.
e. Wait list of eligible candidates will be maintained in the final round. The wait
list will be valid upto 31st March of the selection year. Candidates on the wait
list may apply for the next selection year as well. Waitlist will be maximum of
50% of the total seats.
f. The candidates who intend to leave country after the issuance of provisional
award letter for pursuing their further studies must intimate this Department,
providing detailed information about their source of funding; including loan
documents, proof of financial transaction etc. before leaving the country.
Failure to comply shall result in the cancellation of their candidature.
g. Students may be allowed a maximum time period of either one year or two
intake deferrals, whichever is earlier from the date of issuance of provisional
award letter to join university/Institute abroad failing which the award would
stand automatically cancelled and no correspondence in this regard will be
entertained thereafter.
h. If in case Confirmation of Award letter is issued to an awardee, he/she has to
complete all the procedures like verification of original documents, submission
of Bonds, Solvency Certificates etc. within SIX (6) months from the date of
issuance of Confirmation of Award Letter, otherwise the award letter will be
automatically cancelled. No further time will be granted for completion of
these formalities.
i. The timelines for selection of candidates under the guidelines is placed at
Annexure-II.
10. Mandatory Conditions
i. The candidates are required to submit their Aadhar Card on the NOS portal and
make their own efforts in seeking admission in programmes/ fields specified in
the Scheme in the latest available top 500 QS ranking Institutions/Universities.
(https://www.topuniversities.com/university-rankings/world-university-
rankings/2025)
ii. The candidate is not eligible for scholarship under this scheme to pursue the
same level (Masters/Ph.D.) of course for which he/she has already acquired the
qualification from any University/Institution either in India or abroad.

--- Page 7 ---
iii. Topics/courses concerning Indian Culture/heritage/History/Social studies on
India based research topic shall not be covered under NOS. The final decision
as to which Topic can be covered under such category will rest with Selection-
cum-Screening Committee of NOS.
iv. Employed candidates are required to provide a “No Objection Certificate”
(NOC) from the Employer to this Ministry.
v. In case the awardee was a Government Servant before going abroad, on return
to India he/she is also required to serve the Government, if he/she continues to
be in Government service after return to India, as one was before going abroad
with award under the Scheme.
vi. All administrative matters like study leave, salary etc. will be directly resolved
by the candidate with his/her employer and as per rules of the serving
organization. This Ministry will not take any responsibility or render any
assistance in this regard.
vii. It will be for the candidate to obtain the appropriate visa for a country wherein
he/she intends to study further with the award from the Scheme, and the Visa
issuing authorities may see that only such type of visa be issued which permits
the candidate to pursue specified course abroad and thereafter the candidate
returns to India. In case the candidate is applying for admission in any
University in the United States of America, the candidate is required to
obtain J-1 VISA only. The State Department of USA keeps a list of
Designated Sponsor Organizations for J-1 visas for students. Candidates going
to USA should apply in the J-1 Visa sponsoring Universities/colleges only. In
case a candidate has applied for admission on F-1 Visa or has already obtained
F-1 Visa, such candidate is not eligible for scholarship under the Scheme.
Government of India will render no assistance to the candidate for obtaining
Visa.
viii. The candidate will give an undertaking that he/she will allow his/her University
to share information with concerned Indian Mission abroad and the Ministry.
The candidate will also give an undertaking that he/she is not in receipt of any
scholarship from Government of India/State Government/ foreign
government/other organization in India or abroad. In case candidate is in
receipt of any scholarship from University/College in which he/she has secured
admission for the course, the same scholarship will be allowed, however, the
candidate should report the same to this Ministry and this amount of
scholarship will be deducted from admissible amount under NOS. The selected
candidate will also be required to give an undertaking to this Ministry and the
Indian Mission abroad, as per prevailing laws of the foreign country, that the
extension of stay abroad beyond completion of the course or duration of the
scholarship under the scheme, whichever is earlier will not be permissible.
However, the extension of stay abroad beyond completion of the course or
duration of the scholarship under the Scheme, whichever is earlier is
permissible as mentioned in clause 14.
ix. In case the concerned University/Institute is allowing online classes to the
awardee due to Corona Pandemic (covid-19) or any other such unavoidable

--- Page 8 ---
situation arising in future, the candidate is required to join the online classes
after completion of all the procedural formalities as per scheme guidelines.
x. The selected candidate is required to execute a bond on a non-judicial stamp
paper before a notary-public with two sureties who will execute surety bonds
separately for the actual amount to be spent by Government of India on the
candidate or Rs.50,000/- (fifty thousand) whichever is higher. Each of the
surety bonds shall specify and cover for the estimated expenditure in Indian
Rupees that would be incurred as travel expenses, fees, maintenance and
contingency allowances, stipends, scholarship and other miscellaneous
expenses, on the awardee during the entire period of study abroad and shall
become payable by the sureties jointly or/and severally in case the awardee is
declared a defaulter by the Ministry under the provisions of the scheme. The
language of the bond as decided by the Government of India has to be
acceptable to the candidate. The selected candidates have to provide solvency
certificates for both the sureties to be issued by Revenue department of the
concerned State Government.
xi. In case the selected candidate obtains admission in an accredited
University/Institution abroad and joins the University/Institution before
execution of bonds as mentioned in clause 10(ix) and is not in a position to
return to India then he/she may execute a Power of Attorney (POA) for any of
his/her representative in India to act for and on his/her behalf to execute legal
Bonds/agreements/undertakings with the Government of India. All such
applicants are required to get the POA attested/validated by Indian
Embassy/High Commission in the country where he/she is pursuing studies.
xii. The Selected candidates are required to furnish all such documents and enter
into such agreements before their departure as shall be decided by the
Government of India from time to time.
xiii. In case the married candidate take a decision to take their spouse and children
with them or join them subsequently during the period of study, it is entirely
for them to assess their financial potential and availability of passport, visa etc.
as no financial assistance of any kind as well as any other support coverage is
provided under the Scheme for their spouse and children.
xiv. In case the awardee has received over payment through Indian Mission abroad
or any other Government agency, he/she is liable to refund the same to
Government of India and his/her employer (if any) is authorized to recover the
excess amount from his/her dues, on request from Government of India, and
refund the same to Government of India.
xv. No scholarship will be disbursed/ paid to the candidates who complete their
education abroad without completing the required procedure/formalities under
NOS Scheme.
xvi. This Ministry, if necessary, in consultation with other Departments/Agencies,
will take decision on such issues concerning awardees arising out of such
situations and circumstances which are of unforeseeable nature and, thus, not
covered under this written Scheme and the decisions of the Ministry will be
final and binding on the awardees.

--- Page 9 ---
xvii. The candidates shall not change the course of study or research for which
scholarship has been sanctioned. However, when situations arise where an
awardee pursuing Ph.D in a University/Institution where one is initially
registered finds his/her guide has left and there are no immediate replacements
thereof or the University/Institutions has discontinued their research support
facilities in the area where the awardee was pursuing Ph.D. research; the
Indian Missions abroad in such cases are authorized to allow the awardee to
change the University/ Institution as notified in the scheme, after the Missions
are satisfied about such a need, however, subject to the condition that the
credits if any earned by the awardee in the initial University/Institution are
accepted for transfer by the second University/ Institutions and that the total
period of award will remain unchanged even on such a transfer/change, which
will be permitted only once during the award.
xviii. In case the candidate fails, the following provisions will apply:-
i). No payment for reappearing in any failed subject is allowed.
ii). If a candidate seeks an extension solely due to academic failure, no
additional financial assistance for the extension will be granted. However, in
cases where failure is accompanied by justifiable reasons, such requests may be
considered with the approval of the competent authority, based on
recommendations from the Indian mission abroad and the respective university.
xix. In case of exigency at home where the awardee is required to return to India for
some time to attend to it, the awardee is permitted to return to India for the
specific purpose, after having informed the Indian Mission and the educational
institution where one is pursuing studies, about it. The awardee will, however,
be required to bear to and fro journey expenses for the visit and shall also not
be entitled to receive maintenance allowance under the scheme from the Indian
Mission, for the period of being away from the place of his/her educational
institution abroad and the maintenance allowance shall be resumed by the
Indian Mission only from the date of his/her resuming the same course at the
same institution. The awardee after having dealt with the situation at home, is
required to return to the place of his/her educational institution, as early as
possible; failing which, he/she shall be liable to be declared a defaulter and the
recovery proceeding will be initiated against him/her.
xx. All candidates after having availed of the award under the Scheme are required
to return to India within 30 days from the date of completion of the course for
employment and sharing their knowledge gained overseas. Students have to
stay in India for at least one year and look for opportunities to serve in various
Departments/Ministries of the Government of India.
xxi. It is expected that the beneficiaries of the Scheme shall explore the
opportunities to contribute towards Nation building and shall not indulge in any
anti-National activities.
11 Role of Indian Mission

--- Page 10 ---
i. Indian Mission will make payments of tuition fees/maintenance
allowance/other allowances to the students studying in their jurisdiction as per
the existing arrangements and sanction orders.
ii. In case the awardee is unable to complete the course successfully, he will be
declared defaulter and will become liable for refund of entire amount spent on
him/her along with the interest as prescribed in clause 16 on Defaulter clause.
However, if the guide/head of the department of the candidate certifies that the
candidate has not been found wanting in his/her
commitment/dedication/attention to studies then the Ministry shall have the
right to exempt him/her from the penalty clause of defaulter under the Scheme.
The Indian Missions, in all such cases, will provide the return air passage to
India by shortest route and economy class.
iii. When the awardee overstays abroad for more than one month after successful
completion of the course and then of his/her own returns to India at own cost,
he/she will not be entitled to receive refund of return passage booked by
him/her. In normal circumstances, immediately after successful completion of
the course, the Indian Missions abroad books the return journey, for the
awardee as provided in the Scheme, and thus, the overstaying awardee without
any specific purpose for more than a month after the course is over, will forfeit
his/her claims of return passage at Government expense through Indian
Missions abroad.
iv. Monitoring the progress of the students on regular basis.
v. The Indian Missions are required to intimate to this Ministry about the return of
the awardee to India.
12 Monitoring
i. The Indian Missions abroad will obtain bi-annual progress reports from the
University/ Institution where the awardee is pursuing his/her studies for which
the award was given under the Scheme. The Missions will inform to this
Ministry such serious adverse developments in case of the awardee which
requires decision towards further continuation of the award or otherwise. The
Missions will, however, keep on advising such awardees to put serious efforts
in improving their achievements that are not seen to be up to the mark as
reflected in their said bi-annual progress reports and they may also be reminded
that financial assistance under the Scheme is not extendable beyond the
stipulated period under the Scheme.
ii. The payment of Maintenance Allowance is linked with furnishing of progress
report. For first semester, the maintenance allowance may be paid to the
scholarship awardee in the first instance as an advance in two installments: first
after three months and second after another three months. Thereafter, the
maintenance allowance for the next semester may be paid quarterly only after
receipt of the satisfactory progress report of the awardee.

--- Page 11 ---
iii. The Mission & Ministry will maintain position of selection, sanction order,
release of funds & progress of students etc. on the NOS Portal.
13 Financial Assistance
S. Type of Assistance United United Kingdom (UK)
No. States of
America
(USA) &
other
countries
except UK
1. Annual Maintenance Allowance 15400 US 9900 Great Britain
Dollars Pounds
2. Annual Contingency 1500 US 1100 Great
Allowance Dollars Britain Pounds
3. Tuition Fees Actual as charged
4. Visa Fees Actual visa fees in Indian Rupees
5. Medical Insurance Premium Actual as charged
6. Incidental Journey 20 US Dollars for each or its
Allowance & Equipment Allowance equivalent in Indian Rupees
7. Air Passage a) The awardees shall be allowed to
purchase air tickets (from nearest
Airport to Hometown in India to the
nearest place to the educational
institution and back to India) from the
three authorized travel agents viz.
Balmer Lawrie & Company Limited
(BLCL), Ashok Travels & Tours
(ATT), Indian Railways Catering and
Tourism Corporation Ltd (IRCTC)
with the condition that the ticket
purchased must be of economy
class/shortest route on date of booking.
b) The choice of the travel agent for
booking of the ticket is left open to the
awardees. No Booking charges/excess
baggage/cancellation charges & other
add-ons will be reimbursed to

--- Page 12 ---
awardees.
c) The awardees will claim
reimbursement of airfare from
respective Indian Mission abroad after
joining the University and providing
joining report from University.
d) The conditions will be effective
from 1st Jan, 2022.
e) Return tickets will be booked by
Indian Mission abroad as per clause
11(iii).
Note:
i. The Contingency allowance is allowed for books/essential apparatus including
laptop/ study tour/ travel cost for attending subject related conference,
workshops etc./ typing and binding of thesis etc. and the fees charged by the
University/ Institutions which are directly related to the studies of the
Scholarship Awardees such as Student Service Fees, Student Amenity Fees,
Student Service and Amenity Fees, Registration Fees, Examination Fees,
Enrollment Fees, Library Fees etc. However, the fee for English or any other
Language courses either before joining of the course or during the course is not
allowed.
ii. Second or Coach Class railway fare from the port of disembarkation to the
place of study and back. In case of far flung places not connected by rail, bus
fare(s) from the place of residence to the nearest railway station, actual charge
of crossing by ferry, air fare to the nearest rail-cum-air Station and/or second
class railway fare by the shortest route to the port of embarkation and back will
be permissible. The mode of disbursement of above listed financial assistance
will be decided by Government of India and Indian Missions abroad.
iii. The awardees are permitted to supplement their prescribed allowances by
undertaking Research/Teaching Assistant-ship.
iv. In case of awardees who are pursuing online classes in India for any reason, the
rate of maintenance allowances will be applicable as per the approved rates of
Academic Allowance under the Post Matric Scholarship for SCs implemented
by the Ministry of SJ&E for Day scholars who are pursuing courses
categorized as Group 1 under the scheme of Post Matric Scholarship for SCs.
v. In case a selected student pursuing research visits India for study/research
purpose under the NOS scheme with approval from respective Indian Mission
and concerned University, the rate of maintenance allowances etc. in India will
be applicable as per the rate under National Fellowship Scheme for Scheduled
Castes implemented by Ministry of SJ&E.

--- Page 13 ---
14 Duration of Award with Financial Assistance
i. The prescribed financial assistance will be provided upto sanctioned duration
of the course/research or the following period, whichever is earlier:-
Ph.D. -- 04 years (Four years)
Master’s Degree -- 03 years (Three years)
ii. The extension of stay beyond prescribed period for levels of courses as
mentioned above, may be considered without financial assistance of any kind
except the air passage to return to India, if and only if recommendation of the
competent concerned authority in the educational institution/ university as well
as the Indian Mission abroad is received certifying that such an overstay for a
specified period, is absolutely essential for facilitating the candidate to
complete the course. The final decision in this regard will, however, rest with
the Government of India alone.
15 Jurisdiction of the Scheme
The jurisdiction of the Scheme is upto providing prescribed financial support
to the selected candidates for pursuing higher education in the specified subjects.
16 Default under the Scheme
In case a candidate pursuing studies abroad violates any of the terms and conditions
of the bonds executed by him/her and that the educational Institution/University
intimates the Indian Mission abroad about his/her adverse reports on studies and/or
conduct and/or that the candidate leaves for any other country or absconds or joins any
other university or course/programme or/and returns to India in case of exigency
without intimating the Indian Mission abroad, he/she will be declared defaulter and
will become liable for refund of entire amount spent on him/her along with the interest
which will be 12% per annum and in case an awardee fails to repay the amount within
six months from the date on which a demand for such refund is made, penal interest at
the rate which is 2.5% higher than the above normal rate of interest on the outstanding
amount would be charged. If the awardee fails to repay such amount along with
interest thereon in the manner decided by Government of India, his/her sureties who
have executed bonds, will be liable to pay the entire amount failing which the District
Collector of the concerned district will realize the amount as arrears of land revenue.
17 Furnishing of False Information
If any candidate has furnished any false information/document and is
established as false, he/she will be debarred from the award and if he/she has

--- Page 14 ---
availed of it or is availing, an action will be initiated for recovery of the amount
spent with 15% compound interest thereon. Such candidate will also be black listed
for future and the employed candidate will also have to face departmental action for
such act, for which the Government of India will take up the matter with the
respective employers. The respective employers are, therefore, also requested to
carefully go through contents of application of their employees before giving NOC
to the applicant. The employers are also free to insist on candidates employed by
them to execute such bonds with them, as they deem fit and necessary and in
accordance with their rules and regulations in such cases.
18 Litigation
Any litigation on matters arising out of this Scheme in India will be subject
to sole jurisdiction of the courts situated in Union Territory of Delhi. The litigation
arising abroad will be attended to by the Indian Missions abroad.
19 Administrative Expenses
A provision not exceeding 1% of the total budget of NOS will be made to Indian
Mission abroad/Ministry for creation of database, publicity, hiring of manpower, NOS
Portal maintenance/Upgradation and awareness generation or any other activities
which will be necessary to run the scheme efficiently. Using the Administrative
expenses, the Mission may engage personnel on a full/part time personnel for
managing the related work, with approval of the Ministry.
20 Restriction from benefit of other scholarship scheme
The candidate shall be precluded from availing any other scholarship benefits of
similar scheme of the Centre or State Governments.
21 Modification/Relaxation to any Clause of the Schemes of SHREYAS
Under special circumstances, Modification/Relaxation in the guidelines of the
Schemes of National Overseas Scholarship for SC etc., except the financial norms
may be considered and decided by the Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment.
Financial parameters may be changed in consultation with the Department of
Expenditure
*****

--- Page 15 ---
Annexure-I
A. List of Document Required at the Application Stage
1. 10th Board Certificate
2. Caste Certificate
3. Photo
4. Scanned Signature
5. Current Address proof/Permanent Address Proof, in case different from current
address
6. Qualifying Degree/Provisional Certificate
7. Mark sheet of qualifying examination
8. Valid Document regarding admission in Foreign University (Application,
Registration or Admission related document) (*).
9. Income documents of all family members as detailed in Clause-5 of Scheme
Guidelines
10. NOC from employer, if applicant is employed. Gap Certificate in case there is
gap of more than 6 months after completing qualifying degree.
11. Income Tax Return Acknowledgement document or copy of assessment order
accepting the Income Tax Return filed by the candidates.
12. Aadhar Card
B. In case the candidate is selected, they are required to submit the following
documents upon the issuance of the Provisional Award Letter under the National
Overseas Scholarship scheme for SC etc.:
i. Attestation form
ii. Self Declaration/Undertaking Regarding Total Annual Family Income.
iii. SELF DECLARATION REGARDING ANY PENDING CASE/NON-
CONVICTION OF OFFENSE.
iv. Copy of Passport
Further course of action will be processed by this Ministry for granting of
Confirmation of Award Letter, after submission of above documents and verification
of offer letter by concerned Embassy and original documents as sought by the
Department.

--- Page 16 ---
Note:- Candidate is required to visit this ministry personally on any working day by
taking prior permission/ appointment with all documents submitted along with
application form in original for verification purposes.
C. After verification of all original documents in this Ministry and approval of
Financial Department (IFD), the awardee will be issued Confirmation of award
letter. The candidate’s applicant is required to submit following:
(i) Two Bonds on at least Rs.100/- non-judicial stamp paper complete in all
respects, executed before a Notary Public for two sureties, as per the conditions laid
down in the Regulations governing the Scheme of National Overseas Scholarship for
SC etc. Candidate
(ii) Solvency certificates for both sureties.
(iii) Health certificate.
(iv) Two copies of your Passport and VISA.
(v) An undertaking/declaration on Non-judicial Stamp paper stating that awardee has
not acquired the qualification for which he/she has been selected and has not obtained
any other scholarship.
(vi) The date on which awardee is desire to undertake the Air journey for joining the
foreign University.
(vii) Selected Candidates are requested to visit this ministry personally on any
working days by taking prior permission/ appointment with all documents submitted
along with copies of documents stated above.
(viii) They are also requested to provide PDF of all aforesaid documents via email
also.
Note :- Specimen copy of bond , solvency certificate & Undertaking will be issued
along with confirmation of award letter for doing needful. Undertaking is to be
submitted in Rs.10/- Non Judicial stamp paper sworn before Notary public.

--- Page 17 ---
Annexure-II
a. The portal will be opened for first round in February/March for a period of 40
days for inviting of applications and after this period, the portal will be opened again
for 4 days to allow the candidates to make corrections, if any, in the submitted
applications.
b. The application received will be scrutinized in the Section in 20-30 days.
c. Thereafter, the scrutinized applications will be placed before the Selection-cum-
screening committee for recommendation/rejection of candidates which will take
approx 10-15 days.
d. On the basis of the recommendations received from the Committee, final list for
selection/rejection will be submitted for the approval of Hon'ble Minister (SJ&E).
e. The same procedure will be followed for the second round for which portal will
be opened in September/October for a period of 40 days for inviting of applications
and after this period, the portal will be opened again for 4 days to allow the candidates
to make corrections, if any, in the submitted applications.
f. The portal will be opened only for two rounds subject to availability of slots.
g. Result will be uploaded on the online portal.
h. Individual email/messages will also be sent to all registered applicants in due
course of time. Incomplete applications will be rejected summarily.
Note :- The above timeline is tentative.