
--- Page 1 ---
US Were HIM SPIT
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala — 799046 (Tripura)
OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC

nitadeanacademic@gmail.com

 

F.No.NITA.5/(20-Acad)/PhD Scholarship/2023-24 TA-1494 Dated.05/03/2024
NOTICE

Students who have taken admission in Ph.D program under the category of “full time with
scholarship” during academic session January-June 2023-24, are hereby requested to apply for
MHRD (now MoE) scholarship by following steps given below.

1) Scholars should fill up the scholarship form online through the stipend module link of their
respective account in the MIS at mis.nita.ac.in (Administrative—Stipend—Transactions—>
Apply Stipend) and take a print of the report generated after online submission.

2) After that they should fill up the undertaking form (as per prescribed format at Annexure-
A) and submit both the reports (hard copy) along with the photocopy of self-attested GATE
score card to the Office of the Dean(AA) latest by 18/03/2024, duly recommended by the
concerned Head of Department.

I

Deputy Registrar(Academic)

Copy to:
1. PS to the Director, NIT Agartala for kind information of the Director.
2. Registrar, NIT Agartala for kind information.
3. All.H.O.Ds for kind information.
4. Faculty in-charge MIS for kind information.
5. System administrator with a request to upload in the Institute website.

Naesclow Ihe

(
Deputy fegsratAcaenic en 02

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala- 799046, India, website- www.nita.ac.in, Ph-0381-2546630, 2548537 , Fax: 0381-2546360

Academic Section/T rishitt/£/Ph.D


--- Page 2 ---
Promoxurre.— A, oY

 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

UNDERTAKING TO BE EXECUTED BY THE PhD SCHOLARS FOR AWARD OF
SCHOLARSHIP

Form NITA/ACAD/PHD/4 Z (FOR REGULAR CANDIDATE ONLY)

I , son/daughter/wife of residing at admitted to the PhD

programme in the department during the academic session
I am thankful to the institute for awarding me the Institute scholarship of Rs. per month for PhD in

Engineering/ Technology / Science for the academic year and I hereby undertake that,

® Iam not selected for any regular appointment/service and I am registering for the PhD programmes
of the institute with the intention of completing the same.

© Iam not and will not be in receipt of any salary or other financial benefits from any sources, accept
the MHRD/Institute Scholarship during the period of my study at the Institute.

© I will obtain prior permission of the institute for appearing in any examination conducted by other
Institutions/ Universities/ Public bodies.

I will not apply for or accept any job without obtaining prior permission of the Institute.

© I will undertake to do 8 hours of work per week related to teaching activities of the department
such as aboratoty demonstration work, tutorials, evaluation of test papers, seminars, symposia,
etc. and in the academic research projects of the faculty members of the department as assigned
to me by the Head of the department.

© I understand that the continuation of the Award of assistantship for each semester is contingent
on: (1) my satisfattory performance during the preceding semester(s) in the discharge of -my
responsibilities in teaching and research assignments. (2) my _— satisfactory academic performance
and progress during the preceding semester in my registered degree programme as assessed by the
doctoral committee, according to the procedure as laid down by the Senate.

© I also understand that the Award will be terminated at any time if my performance in the duties or
the progress in my research work is judged to be unsatisfactory.

I am eligible for regular leave for 30 days for each of my academic year and the assistantship will
not be paid for the period of leave availed in excess of 30 days in any of my _ academic years.
Absence without obtaining prior sanction of leave will be considered as an_ indiscipline and _ shall

entail reduction of scholarship on a pro rata basis, besides any other action that may be decided by
the Institute.

© I also agree to undertake to abide and be bound by all and each of the terms of the existing rules

and conditions governing the award of the Institute Scholarship subject to the modifications,
alterations, amendments and additions as may be made to them from time to time.

Page 1 of 2


--- Page 3 ---
I am fully aware of the rules & regulations governing the PhD programme at NIT Agartala. I also
agree to undertake that I shall follow the rules and regulations as prescribed and as amended from
time to time by the Senate with respect to the PhD programme of the Institute.

I hereby agree and undertake that I will not apply for or obtain or cause or permit any other person
to apply for or obtain a patent for an invention based on the research work except with the written
permission of the Director of National Institute of Technology, Agartala.

I have already deposited the ffirst installment of fees of Rs. vide receipt No.

dated . /./ and commenced attending programme from __/__/ F.N.

Signature of the student

Deptt

Date etapa ere ke
Bank A/C No.

Roll No.

Signature in my presence.

Head of the Department

To,
The Dean (Academic)

* Page 2 of 2
