
--- Page 1 ---
ffiM
rNffi dwnq wq-ftrlT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
huaf
2/lot
No.F. NIT r A ! .20(264-EC lt- E)2023 -24 lY isvesvaraya Ph.D SchemeiPhase-ll Dated 12024
NOTIFICATION
Sub:- Admission in futl-time Ph.D Programme under Visvesvaraya Ph.D scheme of the
Electronics and IT: Phase II at NIt Agartala for July-December 2024, academic
session.
Applications are invited from the eligible candiclates for admission in f$ll:ti+e Ph'D
programml under visvesvaraya ph.D scheme of the N{inistry of Communication and IT against
2 (tio) qea,ts, for July-December 2024 academic session in the Electronics and IT: Phase II at
NI.l'Agartala.
r
admissi
P4.D sche{nE-
Candidates for admission in Ph.D programme under Visvesvaraya Ph.D scheme
must satisfy any of the following criteria:-
L Master,s Degree in Engineering/ Technology in Flectronics & Communication
Engineering / tvtechanical Engineering with a minimum CGPA of 6.5 out of 10 or
equivalent (60% of marks)
II. Bachelor's Degree in Engineering/ Technology in Electronics &. Communication
Ilngineering / -Mechanical -Engine&ing with an expellent academic record and with a
CGpA of at least 9.0 out of 10 or equivalent (85% of marks) Candidates must have valid
GATE score.
*** Conversion of CGPA to percentage and vice-versa will not be allowed.
Instf uctionq fo r Applicants(for,online 4pplicatiqn)
r A11 applicants must apply online https://admission.nita. ac.jnl
o The portal is compatible to Mozilla Firefox. Candidates are advised to use Mozilla Firefox
browser only.
o After registration, Application ID (to be used as login name) with Password will be sent to
the email ID provided by the applicant'
. Using the login credential, applicants must login to the Admission Portal for form filling.
r Application fees must be paid online only in the payment portal through the abovc
mentioned link.
. Candidates must wait for the payment confirmation message. If not received, maY
email to qipmi$ qet(.t?,gm +il. qo +.
Barjala, Agartala-799046' India. website- q'lyrv.nita.agin

--- Page 2 ---
ffift*
{dtq
dTeilq snmFTT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
r After completion and submission of the online form, filled in form in PDF format will
be generated.
r
On the clay of written test and/or interview, the provisionally shortlisted candidates should
bring a printecl copy of the on-line filled-in form aiong with all the original of the
tt...irury documents (to support all educational qualification, date of birth, category) and
a set of photocopy of all such documents, duly self-attested.
uments
(Documents having multiple pages &re to be scanned into u single pdf and then upload)
1. Proof of clate of birth.
2. Photo id proof, as per guidelines of GoI.
3. Mark sheet(s) of all semesters of Bachelor's degree'
4. Marksheets of all semesters of \daster's Degreg.
5. Pass Certificate of Master's Degree.
6. GATE/ NET etc. score card (if and whichever applicable).
7. Migration Certificate issued by the Institution last attended'
8. Conduct/Character Certificate issued by the Institution last attended.
g.
Recent colour photograph as per specifications (strictly formal photograph, preferably
white/sky blue background)
0. SC/ST/PwD/oBC-NCL/EWS certifi cate (if and whichever applicable).
1
The OBC-NCL/ EWS certificate must be issued by Competent Authority on or
after 0110412024. Admission under PwD category will be based on the
recommendation of Medical Board of NIT Agartala.
Imnortant Note:
r Migration Certificate and Conduct/ Character Certificate are mandatory during
provisional admission.
. Candidafe should apply for the programme through online mode only. Requisite non-
refundable application fee to the extent of Rs. 500/- for OP/OBC-NCL/EWS candidates
and Rs. 300/- for SC/ST/PwD candidates has to be submitted online payment portal only.
offl written. or nrint n will not be
o Candidates must wait for the payment confirmation message. If not received, may
email to {ritmi$,aet@email.q0m.
o Incomplete application will be summarily rejected. Applications may be rejected if
the requisite documents (clearly visible) as mentioned above is not uploaded.
rtala will not be ible for anv failu rt of the c
Barj4la, Agartala-799046, India.'rvebsite- y1y.14.g!J3.ac.in

--- Page 3 ---
{MqftdrM
{R{H cr{Kffil-l
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Selection Procedure:-
'Ihe candidates fulfilling the eligibility conditions will be short-listed and the list will be
published in the institute website. Selection will be made on the basis of performance of the
candidates in the interview and/ or written test and availability of seats. The short-listed candidates
should appear for intervierv and/ or written test on the appointed day with all original documents.
Schola rsh in Facilitv: -
'fhe candidates who will be selected lor adrrission undqr the scheme in Ph'D programme as
- full-time scholars will be entitted for ssholarship @Rs. 38,750/- per month in I't & 2"d ysar an<) ltl
Rs. 43,750/- per month in 3'd to 5'l'year as pSr applicable norms of the scheme.
Imnortant Dates:-
+-
Starting of online application with fee payment 2710s12024
Last date of online Payment (non-refundable) Tuesday
Last date of sr"rbrnission of online application Wednesday
Pub licati on of shortlisted Candidates 0710612024 Friday
Written Test and/ /or Interview Wednesday
Pr"rblication of shortlisted candidates for Tuesday
provisional admission
I . I Payrnent of seat confirmation f'ee 251Q6120?4 to Tuesday to Friday
0510712024
Provisional admission on physical presence l5l0712024 to Monday to Thursday
t810712024 (except holiday)
Commencement of classes 1910712024 Friday
Dean (Academic Affairs)
Copy to
l)
PS to the Director, for kind information of the Director.
2) Registrar NIT Agartala fbr kind information.
3) I{oD ECE for kind information necessary action.
4) FIC MIS, for inlormation and necessary rction'
5) System administrator, for inforrnation and necessary action'
B a{ al a, Agartala-7 9 9046, 1 ndi a, W eb s ite- !Sp-:lv.ufy.u!3. ac. in