
--- Page 1 ---
TSE WEN AA SPT

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala —- 799046 (Tripura)

 

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC

NITA.5/(10-Acad)/CSAB-2023/Adm/2022-23 74 -2431 Date 92/08/2023

NOTICE
In continuation to this office notices even dated 28/07/2023, it is to inform to
all concerned that the physical reporting of candidates allotted by JOSAA/CSAB- 2023 to
NITA, has toreport tothe below-mentioned venues during 9am - 4pm of working days:

 

SI. No. Department name Venue
1. Civil Engineering Civil Engg. Department
2: Mechanical Engineering Room no. 100 of Old Academic Block

a Electrical Engineering
Electrical Engg. Department
Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering

4, t . & Engi ing (i i
Computer Sc. & Engineering (including IIIT Peemeaton Se: ieee Demronent
Agartala)

 

 

5. Electronics & Communication Engineering Electronics & Communication Engg.
Department
7. Chemical Engineering
Room no. 111 of Old Academic Block

8. Bio Engineering

9. Production Engineering Room no. 200 of Old Academic Block

10. Physics CDAC Building
11. Chemistry

12. Mathematics Mathematics Department

 

 

 

 

2. All the candidates allotted a seat at NIT Agartala through JOSAA/CSAB-2023 must
visit the MIS portal of NIT Agartala at regular interval to check for any update regarding
Provisional registration as per the previous notice, for physical reporting.

3. The candidates need to upload the same Medical Certificate, uploaded during
JoSAA/CSAB- 2023 counseling, in the MIS portal as well as submit the original hardcopy
during physical reporting at Institute. In case, any candidate do not have medical certificate
at present, he/she may do to so as per the prescribed attached format. If fails to follow the
above, he/she has to get verified in the Medical centre of the Institute during physical
reporting.

4, Income certificate and affidavit are not required to be submitted for candidates of
ST,SC &PwD categories and candidates having Annual Family Income above INR 5 lakhs.

5. The details of the fee is attached with this notice for reference.

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala- 799046, India, website- www.nita.ac.in

 


--- Page 2 ---
TS Weal PIM Sa

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala — 799046 (Tripura)

 

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC

 

How to reach:
NIT Agartala Campus is around 59 min (26.5 km) away from the Maharaja Bir Bikram Kishore
Manikya Airport., Agartala. Public vehicales are available from airport to reach the campus.

NIT Agartala Campus is around:7 min (3.2 km) away from the Jirania railway station and 37 min
(21.1 km) away from the Agartala (Badharghat) railway station. Public vehicales are avaifgble from
both railway stations to reach the campus.

 
   
  

(Prof. sWapak aumik)

Dean (Academic Affairs) &

Centre-in-Charge (JoSAA/CSAB-2023)
NIT Agartala

Copy to:-
PS to the Director for kind information of the Director
The Registrar, NIT Agartala for kind information.
All Deans, NIT Agartala for kind information.
All HODs and W/S, for kind information and necessary action.
Asso. Dean (Exam), for kind information.
Asso. Dean (UG), for kind information.
Faculty-In-Charge, MIS, for kind information & necessary action.
1st year Co-ordinator, for kind information and necessary action.
Chief Warden, for kind information and necessary action.
. Dy. Registrar (Academic), for kind information and necessary action.
. Dy. Registrar (F&A), for kind information and necessary action.
. Asstt. Registrar (Academic), for kind information and necessary action.
. System Administrator, with a request to upload the notice in the Institute website.

oo OM OF or em Wo iP

PRP PPR
WNrR OO

   

Dean (Academi
Centre-in-Charge (JoSAA/CSAB-2023)
NIT Agartala

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala- 799046, India, website- www.nita.ac.in


--- Page 3 ---
Annexure 7
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
(to be issued by a Registered Medical Practitioner)
GENERAL EXPECTATIONS
Candidates should have good general physique. In particular,
• Chest measurement should not be less than 70 cm, with satisfactory limits of expansion and contraction.
• Vision should be normal. In case of defective vision, it should be corrected to 6/9 in both eyes or 6/6 in the better eye. Colour blind
and uni-ocular (having vision in only one eye) persons are restricted from admission to certain courses.
• Hearing should be normal. Defective hearing should be corrected.
• Heart and lungs should not have any abnormality and there should be no history of mental illness and epileptic fits.
1 Name of the candidate: Gender:
2 Identification Mark (a mole, scar or birthmark), if any
3 Major illness/operation, if any (specify nature of illness/operation)
4 Height in cm: Weight in kg: Blood Group:
5 Past History (a) Mental illness
(b) Epileptic Fit
6 Chest (a) Inspiration in cm (b) Expiration in cm
7 Hearing
8 Vision with or without Right Eye Left Eye Colour Blindness Uniocular vision (having
glasses: vision in only one eye)
9 Respiratory System
10 Nervous System
11 Heart (a) Sounds (b) Murmur
12 Abdomen Hernia Hydrocele
(a) Liver
(b) Spleen
Any other defects:
Certificate of Medical Fitness
The candidate fulfils the prescribed standard physical fitness, medical fitness and is FIT for admission to
Engineering/Architecture/ Pharmaceutics/ Science Course
The candidate does not fulfil the prescribed standard of physical fitness/medical fitness and is
unfit/temporarily unfit for admission due to following defects:
Name of the Doctor Regn. No Signature with date
Seal