
--- Page 1 ---
       

ab RUS \

 

 

 

PLACEMENT
BROCHURE ‘**""

2023-24

National Institute Of Technology
Agartala (NIT AGARTALA)

f National Importance

 

3) nita.ac.in i eee

 


--- Page 2 ---
ASS

 

® Message from Director's Desk |
® Message from Chairman's Desk 2
® Centre for Career Development 3
® Vision and Mission a
® Admission 5
® Demographics 7
e Why recruit at NITA? Il
® Achievements {2
® Internships and Training programs {5
® Clubs 16
® Innovation ventures 2\
® |IC and Startups 22
® Alumni 23
® Collaborations and MOUs 24
® Academic and R&D Infrastructure 20
® Placement Procedure 24
® Past Recruiters oO
® Few of Our Academic & Placement Partners al
= How to reach us a0

® Contact us 36


--- Page 3 ---
  

From
Director s Desk

Dear Recruiters,

With an intermingling of joy and pride, | extend a warm welcome to the commencement of the new
placement season 2023-24 at the National Institute of Technology, Agartala (NITA). National Institute of
Technology Agartala |NITA], an Institute of National Importance |INI]|, was established by the
Government of India with primary objective to promote excellence in technical education and
research in the North-East region. The period was marked as revitalization in technical education.
The Ministry of Education (MoE) established this institute to cater to the growing demand for quality
education in the region.

NIT Agartala is dedicated to rejuvenating the educational landscape, excelling not only in higher
technical subjects but also in various other disciplines as it transforms into a diverse knowledge hub
in North-East India. With a state-of-the-art campus spanning 365 acres, NIT Agartala hosts a vibrant
community comprising over 5000 students and 200 faculties across 13 distinguished departments. NIT
Agartala has achieved considerable success in its efforts to become one of the centres of
excellence in the field of technical education in the country. The institute curriculum structure
promotes to shape future technical leaders and equip the students with skills for holistic
development. The institute also boast of a strong PG programs in different streams of engineering,
science & Management. In addition, the institution has developed numerous central facilities to foster
technological innovation. The institute boasts a distinguished roster of alumni, comprising exceptional
individuals with remarkable achievement. Over the years, our students have made invaluable
contributions to the industry through their skill, intelligence, and adeptness in management. Renowned
organizations across different sectors actively recruit from our campus and have consistently praised
the outstanding performance of our students.

We like to thank organizations visiting NITA for their patronage and support. We hope to collaborate
to foster an environment of growth and realize the vision for an India in its Azadi ka Amrit
Mohatsav. For the academic year 2023-2024, | have the privilege to invite you to the campus for the
placement session of the graduating students. | am confident that your campus visit will result in a
mutually beneficial association for the times to come.

| would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the entire placement team of the institute for
forging ahead and bringing laurels and glory to the institute.

Prof. S. K. Patra

Director, NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 4 ---
   

From
Chairman s Desk

| am immensely delighted and honoured to extend to you a most affable invitation to
participate in the campus Recruitment program of the National Institute of Technology
Agartala, Tripura. Riding on an improvised Institute-Industry Interaction and looking forward to
a long-term relationship between your esteemed organization and our institute, if is my
sincere belief that your esteemed organization will surely benefit from this collaborative
relationship. Our institute is one of the fastest-growing institutes in the North-Eastern States.
Our strive for excellence in the engineering field and our student's continuous hard work and
active endeavours, along-side a strong faculty background, imparting, order technical
education, have all contributed to the said achievement, and we would still strive to achieve
better and better with our constant pursuit of excellence in the technological education
scenario. Admission to the institute takes place through the reputed Joint Entrance Examination
JEE) Main. At the National Institute of Technology Agartala, we take active participation to
nurture our students in accordance with the various industrial demands. We always strive to
cross various boundaries of knowledge and motivate the students in order to contribute to
the nation and be active peers in national development. Our students get a lot of industrial
exposure by their frequent industrial visits. In NIT, Agartala the students undergo a one and
half month industrial training’ internship during their summer vacation, also for fifteen days in
their winter vacation. Students undergo their training in various reputed industries/institutions/
organizations in various parts of the country. | hereby forward the placement brochure of
the National Institute of Technology Agartala, which will basically provide an insight into the
profile of the institute, the various programs/courses offered by the various departments and
centres, and also the important details of the contact persons. It would be our proud
privilege to host you through online modularity for the NIT Agartala Placement Recruitment
process, and we look forward to a bright long-term relationship with your organizations,
based on trust, and mutual collaborative efforts. Kindly allow us to host you through Online
Platforms and do extend the opportunity to our beloved students fo serve your organization.

Dr. John Deb Barma

Chairman, Centre for Career Development,

NIT Agartala

 


--- Page 5 ---
 

Dr. Jawahar Paulraj

“Dear Recruiter,

 

CENTRE FOR CAREER DEVELOPMENT

  

It is my pleasure fo invite you to the Placement Session for the Academic Year 2020-21. The
Training and Internship Division of Centre of Career Development is providing an active support to
out students by facilitating them in getting training and internship from second year onwards. Our
students undergo two months Industrial Training/Internship during summer and fifteen days during

winter vacation as well. Our students are Industry ready, having exposure to work in multi disciplinary teams. Our
students have also acquired industrial exposure through frequent industrial visits. We are happy to report better
performance and achieving a new normal for the system progressively. Our journey toward a better system

continues.”

Vice Chairman & TPO
Phone : (+91) 8754849740
Email : dr.pJawahar@gmail.com

Dr. Bibabh Kumar Lodh

“Dear Recruiter,

We welcome you warm heartedly to
the beautiful campus of NIT Agartala
to recruit one of the best talented
students off the country and will
comfort and hospitality towards your attachment
with NIT Agartala."

 

Assistant TPO & Faculty Coordinator, Placements
Phone : [+91] 9436579254
Email : bibhab12e3@rediffmail.com

Dr. Apangshu Das

"Dear Recruiters,

We sow the seeds with great
care and efforts to deliver you
the best saplings.”

 

Faculty Coordinator, Placements
Phone : [+91] 8794223393
Email : apangshu.ece@gmail.com

Dr. Kaju Nath

“Our recruiters are our biggest
strength and their continuous support
is an encouragement that, we are
succeeding in our effort to enhance

employability of our students. We

are dedicated to ensure the best recruiting
experience and hospitality to you with our best
possible efforts."

 

Assistant TPO & Faculty Coordinator, Placements
Phone : [+91] 7629914581
Email : kajunathnita@gmail.com

Dr. Partha Kumar Deb

“Training & Placement aren't just
about grunt work anymore. With
the right program, you can
— develop young talent and prepare
the foundation for recruiting brilliant young
minds to work for your company.”

Faculty Coordinator, Placements
Phone : (+91| 7005722990
Email : parthdeb.nita.ec@gmail.com


--- Page 6 ---
 

Dr. Rajib Malik

“Internship brings the opportunity
for our students to understand the
technical education from industry
perspectives. It provide students to
experience the management in the

 

real industry scenario. Internship also provides a
professional work environment by which our
students get enlightened, motivated and gain
exposure for working in the real world.

Faculty Coordinator, Internships

Dr. Jayakumar L

Dear Recruiters,

Welcome to our esteemed institute!
We value your expertise in placing
talented individuals.

 

Together, let's empower students to achieve their
dreams. We look forward to a fruitful
collaboration. Thank you for joining our mission.

Faculty Coordinator, Internships
Phone: [+91] 9791442705
Email: jayakumar @nita.ac.in

CENTRE FOR CAREER DEVELOPMENT

  

Dr. Rupam Gupta Roy

"Training & Placement keeps in
touch with industrial establishments
to find career possibilities for our
college graduates. The Placement
Cell works round the year to
connect employers and to our students."

 

Faculty Coordinator, Internships
Phone : [+91] 7005940657

Email
rupam_guptaroy@rediffmail.com

Dr. Sagnik Paul

“Dear recruiter,

Warm Greetings from NIT Agartala!

It is my pleasure to invite you to the
Placement season for the B.Tech and
M.Tech program at NIT Agartala.

 

NIT Agartala's flagship UG and PG programs are
competitive and rigorous. The program produces high-
quality B.Tech and M.Tech degrees, notable alumni, and
recruiters trust it.

Faculty Coordinator
Phone: [+91] 7085915421,
Email: sagnikpal81@gmail.com


--- Page 7 ---
VISION

Institute is committed to develop highly competent young
Engineers, Scientists, and Management Professionals to
cater to the ever increasing techno-managerial needs of

national and international standards fulfilling professional
ethics and societal commitment.

 

    

MISSION

e To produce techno-managerial human resource in line
with global need offering state-of-the-art facility,
research and_ training in engineering and. allied
disciplines.

e To enhance the effectiveness of technical education
with innovative system and devising a mechanism to
facilitate application of research findings to solve real
problems of industries/academics.

e To nurture and sustain an academic ambience
conducive to the development of intellectually
capable and committed professionals so that an
effective growth is obtained for the economic
development of the region and the nation as a
whole.
¢ To establish as the corridor of higher education for
the South East Asian countries.


--- Page 8 ---
»
BESBEER 2 ;

ag pee
a rl
ed,
) \s J

oe oe

-
-=
-
-
-

it

Knowledge Park, NIT Agartala

 

ADMISSION

The admission procedure for the various programs at NITs
ensures that only the vary best of students make it to

 

their campuses. The admission to various programs is
carried out through the following highly competetive
national level examinations.

JEEVoint Entrance Examination]

e GATE(Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering}

e Admission to the Doctoral program|(Ph.D}

JAM(VJoint Admission Test fo M.Sc]

e CAT/MAT/CMAT/XAT/Institute Level Test (Common
Admissin Test for MBA|

 
 


--- Page 9 ---
Under Graduate Programs

 

Internship cum Industrial Project

B.Tech Final Year : 6 months Project
Internship [Jan to July)

Duration : 4 years ‘
aus ; Pre Final Year : Summer
Admission through : JEE Main Vacaher idan iodansl

Final Year Projects : 1 year NOTE-
Companies are requested to inform the

name of the selected students to CCD,
NIT Agartala within 15th December 2023
for administrative approval to avail the
3 to 6 month internship.

 

Branchwise Distribution

 

Computer Science & Engineering
Electronics & Communication Engineering
Electrical Engineering

Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering
Mechanical Engineering

Civil Engineering

Genderwise Distribution

Chemical Engineering
Production Engineering

Bio Engineering

 

200


--- Page 10 ---
 
 
  

Dual Degree Programs

 

B.Tech+M.Tech (BT+MT)

Courses :
1. Computational mathematics
B.Tech in Computational mathematics [BT] : 4 years
M.Tech in Computational mathematics (BTMT) : 5 years
2. Engineering physics
B.Tech in Engineering physics [BT] : 4 years
M.Tech in Engineering physics (BTMT] : 5 years
Admission through : JEE Main

Internship : 2 months NOTE-

Thesis Duration : 1 year Students can sit for placement in
, ’ 4th year and as well as in 5th. If

Final Year Projects 4 year they get selected in 4th year

they will leave the college and
they will get their bachelor
degree only|BS and BTech).

   

BSMS

Courses :
1. Mathematics and computing
BS in Mathematics and computing : 4 years
BSMS in Mathematics and computing : 5 years
2. Physics
BS in Physics : 4 years
BSMS in Physics : 5 years
3. Chemistry
BS in Chemistry : 4 years
BSMS in Chemistry : 5 years
Admission through : JEE Main
Internship : 2 months
Final Year Projects : 1 year

 


--- Page 11 ---
Post Graduate Programs

   
 

M.Tech

Duration :
Admission through : GATE + Interview
Thesis Duration & Assistantship : 1 year

2 years

Civil Engineering

1. Structural Engineering

2. Geotechnical Engineering

3. Transportation Engineering

4. Environmental Engineering

5. Water Resource Engineering

6. Seismic Science Engineering

1. Hydro Informatics
Engineering

Mechanical Engineering

1. Thermal Science and
Engineering

2. Manufacturing Texhnology

3. Machine Design

4. Automotive Engineering

5. Material Science and
Engineering

Production Engineering

1. Computer Integrated
Manufacturing

 

 

jear of National Technology Day and
ghts India's innovation prowess. Event
qaugurated by Hon'ble Prime Minister <
iti Maidan, New Delhi

 

Electrical Engineering

1. Power Electronics and Drives
2. Instrumentation Engineering
3. Power System Engineering

4. Integrated Energy System

Electronics and
Communication Engineering
1. VLSI Design

2. Communication Engineering

Computer Science and

Engineering

1. Computer Science and
Engineering

2. Artificial Inteligence

Chemical Engineering
1. Chemical Engineering


--- Page 12 ---
M.SC.

Courses :

1. Mathematics and computing

2. Physics

3. Chemistry
Duration : 2 years
Admission through : Entrance Test +
Interview
Thesis Duration : 1 year
Assistantship : 1 year

MCA

Duration : 3 years

Admission through : NIMCET
Internship : 6 months

Final Year Projects : 6 months

MBA

Courses:
1. Financial Management
2. Human Resource Management
3. Sales & Marketing Management
Duration : 2 years
Admission through : CAT/MAT/CMAT/
XAT/Institute Level Test
Internship : 2 months
Dissertation : 1 year

PhD

Duration : 4 to 5 years
Admission through : Entrance

Test + Interview

HN aCe arate

 

NIT Agartala is also mentoring the Indian Insitute of Information Technology,
Agartala in which the first batch graduated in the year 2021-2022.

B.Tech

Computer Science and Engineering

Duration: 4 years
Admission through: JEE Main

Internship: 6 Months Project Internship

lavailable from Jan 2024)
Final Year Projects: 1 year

No of students available: 22

 

10

 


--- Page 13 ---
 

i Why recruit at NIT-A?

 

e As the seekers of this opportunity, we need to
highlight the perks and deliverables that the active
participation of the valuable student community of
NIT, Agartala promises to offer.

e As an important part of the technical fraternity and
community, NIT Agartala stands strong as_= an
"Institute of National Importance" since 2006 and
finds mention among the top 100 colleges as per the
NIRF rankings and top 15 NITs of the country.

e In addition to that, NIT Agartala also boasts of being
one of the best Technical Institutes in the entirety of
North East India, especially in Tripura, complemented
by its diverse culture of equal and fair participation
of contributors from all walks of lives, irrespective of
their sex, creed, caste, color, faith, and custom. This
is evidenced by the ever-increasing participation of
the female workforce and various efforts and
scholarships incentivizing a progressive contribution
from diverse geographical, cultural, tribal, and
marginalized establishments.

e All of these efforts actively warrant numerous
Technical Opportunities by some of the most
resounding names in the industries.


--- Page 14 ---
Achievements

Every year our students make us-~ proud by

   
  

participating in various competitions and bring laurels
to our college.

  
 
  

$s NIT Agartala Of... @NITAgart... - May 12

NIT A was invited to showcase recently
developed product PROVID-1, thanks to @isro
and @|ndiaDSt, at an event commemorating

 
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   

Poa: Fa

NIT AGARTALA

   

25th year of National Technology Day and
Kudos! to team from NIT pretense meee
Agartala for being the Pragati Maidan, New Delhi
winner of 'Smart India 7 |.
Hackathon 2020' organised a |
by HRD ministry.

Following were the team members
Names:-Ritik Kumar,Akash
Chaudhary,Lakshya Vijh, Vivek
Kumar,Anish Ranjan and Nalini Kumari

sk.

   

NIT A was invited to showcase
recently developed product
PROVID-1. On the day of
National Technology
Celebrations this project was
inauguarated on behalf of ISRO

NIT Agartala has been
declared the winner in
Smart India Hackathon
2020 organized by AICTE,
MHRD.

    
 

Google Girl Hackathon on, heen NIT Agartala has been

First Runners Up

declared the 1st Runner up
$350 in the Girl's Hackathon

National Institute of Technology, Agartala
organized by Google 2023.

  


--- Page 15 ---
KPIT Sparkle 2022 received more than
1300 ideas from over 15,000 students
across more than 800 colleges in
<, India. The top 24 teams presented
2 ee working prototypes of their solutions
SPARKLE at the grand finale held on 26 March
2022 4«€6at)~=6htthe”—)=0O Pimpri 3 =Chinchwad
College of Engineering ([PCCOE], Pune.

 

And one from the Top 24 teams, Team M.S.B from NIT Agartala
won Most Popular Award with a prize money of 1 lakh rupees.

= NIT Agartala... @NITAg... - Jun 23, 2022
Wp” SAE Club NITA got 2nd prize in Self Driving Car
Challenge held at SRM Inst of Sc. & Tech

Chennai (11-12 June'22). K Borude, S
Matakala, S Mishra, Hareesh M, A Tiwari, D
Jaraut, K Neigapula, S Anand, T Bisen, R Gupta
represented NIT. B Meitei & Dr. B Das were the
club mentors

oh Myntra
<hacker-ramp/>
wefoxthe

e

 

NIT Agartala has been

declared the winner(Innerve] in SAE Club NIT A got end
the Datathon organized by prize in Self Driving Car
IGDTU 2021 Challenge held at SRM Inst

of Sc. & Tech Chennai June
20e2e.K Borude, S Matakala, S$
Mishra, Hareesh M, A Tiwari,
D Jaraut, K Neigapula, S
Anand, T Bisen, R Gupta

 

represented NIT. B Meitei &
Dr. B Das were Mentors

13


--- Page 16 ---
Apart from the technical achievements our students have
shown their interest in co-curricular events such as
Poetry,debate,extempore,drama etc.

They have brought many laurels to our college in various

inter college events.

 

They participated in many IIT culfest events and excelled

in it. Some of the events are:

LIT Jammu- The annual cultural fest of IIT Jammu is
back with its end edition Renao'21. Our students
backed first and third prize in the open stage and
Extemporema|(Act on spot} event.

e.In IIT Kharagpur Springfest and IIT Guwahati
Alcheringa, they again participated and backed
several positions in events.

PGR ie a) "
proc eoig ’
Dee OO EMU a A {
Bae tc ert

cee

yA neen

 

These achievements shows there active participation and

enthusiasm to achieve and learn from every experience.

14


--- Page 17 ---
Internship and Training

 

For getting exposure to the industrial environment, we
engage our students with various training organised by
renowned companies.

1. Daikin India conducted a one-week virtual training
program for our students on Basic Air-conditioning and
refrigeration.

e. Leadership learning talk conducted by MagicBricks -
The session focused on the future of tomorrow, the
challenges and practices related to functioning in various
sectors, industries, and companies.

For guiding our students in developing coding skills and
awareness we organize various sessions:

ec)
NINJAS

dee
Roadmap to crack

Placement “ Landing internships at
Interviews 8

Mauer te) i ri Pa:
and foreign athe sis

PRAKHAR SRIVASTAV

Peau ae “" Deloitte. Le eel
Shubham Laddha (Former intern @SFU Canoda) and

Kushal Vijay (former intern @Microsoft)

Exclusive Talk by

ASHUTOSH eiagannernd
Ce (SOogle

 

10


--- Page 18 ---
Coding Clubs

Developers & Coders Club (DCC]

The Developer's Club of NIT Agartala solely works to
promote the coding and development culture among the
students of our college. From organising various workshops,
seminars, teaching, and mentoring, the club has come a long
way. The club aims to train the students for Competitive
Programming, ICPC, and various types of developments.

Developers &

<Coders club> J

Our future mission is to get more students involved in coding and development, what the
industry needs today and hence will help them in getting placed at MNCs. We already
have few plans of conducting an All-India Level Hackathon, which would help us grow as

well. Hence this club benefits everyone from all aspects.

Website- https://dccnita.tech/

DSC NIT AGARTALA

DSC NIT Agartala is a university-based community group for
students interested in Google developer technologies. With
study modules, activities, and workshops supported by Google,
the community of students will get an enhanced experience
with hands-on skills and technologies which they will be able
to use in solving local and real-world problems. Students from
all undergraduate or graduate programs with an interest in
growing as a developer are welcome.

GirlScript Agartala

The GirlScript Agartala team has an aim to provide

education to the maximum students in the fields of tech, GIRLSCRIPT{& 4

EDUCATION FIRST

public speaking, profile building, and giving them Agartala

exposure to career opportunities. We are a firm believer
in EDUCATION FIRST!

 

DSC - NITA

 

}


--- Page 19 ---
Clubs

E-BAJA

XANTHRONZ is a club SAE International's Collegiate Design Series (CDS)
competitions take students beyond textbook theory by enabling them to
design, build, and test the performance of a real vehicle and then
compete with other students from around the globe in exciting and
intense competitions.

 

All CDS competitions prepare undergraduate and graduate engineering

students in a variety of disciplines for future employment in mobility- XANTHRONZ
related industries by challenging them with a hands-on, team engineering

experience that also requires budgeting, communication, project

management, and resource management skills.

E-BAJA is an annually held National level intercollegiate competition organized by SAE-INDIA which was first
introduced in 2014 on the counsel of former president of India, AP) Abdul Kalam, in order to promote green
and clean mobility. Within this rigorous course of the entire competition, team Xanthronz is presented with
the challenge of designing and manufacturing an electric powered all-terrain vehicle capable of
maneuvering through harsh and rugged terrains. This enables every individual in the team to coordinate,
realize and reach their true potential in developing industry ready specialized skillset Team Xanthronz
achieved an impressive result in its very first attempt securing an AIR 27. The team stood 3rd among all IIT's
and NIT’s and ‘1st team from the north east India to be part of eBAJA SAE competition.The team performed
exceptionally within the past years and secured brilliant positions and added glory to our college. In 2022's
competition, the team had a remarkable achievement by securing AIR 19 in the dynamics round and stood
Ist among all Ills and NITs. The future of this appears very promising, as it zeal's to outperform in the
upcoming years with the valuable experience that it has gained.

M-BAJA

mBAJA SAE India is an intercollegiate, national and international level

competition, where teams of 25, from more than 450 colleges across aN
India, and some from neighbouring countries as well, participate in an [E\
year-long event, designing and then manufacturing an ATVIAIl Terrain

Vehicle], which is taken for the final ‘Endurance Race’ at NATRAX, 1A

Pithampur. CSFREQO

Team Mech-Estremo Racing, the official mBAJA racing team of WNIT
Agartala, secured AIR 10 in the Sales Presentation round of the Static
Events in BAJA SAE India 2022.

We presented our pitch to set-up a workshop for the mass production of our ATV, It's sales statistics,
advertising techniques, post-production planning, efc.We were judged by a panel consisting of industry
experts, IIM grads and executives from firms like Mahindra &Mahindra, Michelin, Mathworks, among many
others!

17


--- Page 20 ---
Llubs

ANIMA

"Anima: The Aero Club" is a highly organised and diversely
motivated students’ club of aero enthusiasts based in the
National Institute of Technology, Agartala. Basic its
foundations on the shoulders of just 3 members- ANIMA has
established itself as one of fastest growing teams of the
college with currently 25+ members participating across 6
variously credentialed competitions stretching through a AVIATION CLUB
concentrated span of mere 12 months. This has ensured that

 

the team stays vehemently engaged throughout the year,

working together as well as in fragments to excel across all the boards. The efficient
management and organisational structures complemented with ifs affinity to innovative
technological advancements have been key factors in facilitating a whopping rise of
300% in student participation. All of the participants tend to gain a robust theoretical
expertise in aviation, all on their own with the shear force of will and determination
and apply if in the designing, fabrication and manufacture of multi-purpose, diversely
equipped Unmanned Aerial Vehicles- RC planes and drones. Various designs have
propelled their way through many reputed competitions and two different teams
managed to procure the 7th and ith Rank in IIT Kanpur's reputed "Techkriti". Apart from
that, ANIMA has also set its feet in IIT Roorkee's and Boeing Aeromodeling competitions.
The most ambitious of ANIMA's exploits has been in SAE Aero Design competition where,
in its last participation in 2021, it was able to bag the First prize in the Fabrication
Report Category of the Regular Class and 4th overall rank across the country in the
Micro Class, becoming the first SAE club in the college to establish such a feat. With
ample amount of experience gained in application based UAV fabrications that have
been calliberated for various functionalities like vaccine distribution, wildlife
conservation, farming solutions and various projects aimed at revolutionising all
spectrum of sociefy and ecology, ifs fufure aspirations are aimed af the SAE East
competition held in Florida, USA where it intends to showcase the name and stature of
the country and establish the supremacy of Indian technicians across the globe.


--- Page 21 ---
Clubs

ANARC |ASIMOV, NIT Agartala Robotics Club}

ANARC[ASIMOV, NIT Agartala Robotics Club) are a family of
tech enthusiastswho annually are engaged In various
activities related to electronics, Robotics, Al, ML and other
tech stuffs. We regularly conduct classes, make projects
and participate in various competitions including Robowar,
Techfest of IITG, E-Yantra, IITB, and few others.

 

Entrepreneurship Cell (E-cell]

Entrepreneurship Cell(E-cell] is a collective of highly self-
motivated students inclined towards entrepreneurial
pursuits and various aspects of it, formed for sustaining
and diversifying the culture of innovation within the
college premises. Ever since its inception, E-cell has aimed ii
at higher objectives and made sure to promote such a al oF
mindset within the student community as well. The result jh
of which has been securing positions in the top 20 in IIT
Bombay's AND IIT Guwahati's E-Summits for the past 3
years. IGNITE, one of the largest social entrepreneurship boot camp in North-Eastern
India was organized by the Entrepreneurship Cell. Every year the E-cell provides the
students a peek into the entrepreneurial world with their E-summit CARPE DIEM. Not
only this but the incubation of three startups by fhe alumni base of E-cell is a
testament to the kind of ecosystem E-cell provides.

 


--- Page 22 ---
Llubs

Fine Arts Club

Fine Arts Club was founded with an aim to bring out the
creative bone of the students of college. It has been started
to help students break free from monotonous college life and
bring out their creativity. It is one of the most active club of
the college. The club functions throughout the year in various
events. It also conducts two exhibitions yearly as part of
both the technical fest AAYAM and cultural fest MOKSHA.

 

PIXELS Club
PIXELS Club is mainly about Graphic Designing for all from
the posters, social media posts, WhatsApp stories. This is

where the PIXELS Club makes it's presence. Pixels Club also

covers cinematography and guess what, we are a part of

the creative members of the YouTube channel "NITA InSync we

INIT Agartala Broadcasting Channel) which has over 6.5K J ols
subscribers. PIXELS is proud to be the Youngest Club of

NIT-A and its a place where Creativity meets Passion.

Literary Club

Lost through the academic purgatory of college life, NITA Literary
Club is the best escape you could ask for. The club is composed of
poetry, article, comics, reviews and debates. We, at NLC, profoundly
believe that everyone has a voice and every voice is needed to be
heard and what we aspire to be, beyond anything, is the means
and way to propagate that voice. The club nurtures passion towards
literature and develops communication and conversational skills for
the leaders of tomorrow. With a wide range of collaborative events
like Spill the ink, winter debates, Debating premier League, talent hunt weekends and much more,
we have tried to transform the club atmosphere into a safe melting pot of unlimited and vibrant
opinions and perspectives. The club maintains its glory and legacy throughout the academic
years by bagging podium positions in various IITs and NiTs and, in doing so, ever rejuvenating the
spirit of literature. Coordination with clubs within the campus and outside has helped us form a
sort of literary solidarity that stretches beyond and will far outlive our personal aspirations
making the presence of the collective- forever and its journey- timeless.

 

20


--- Page 23 ---
Innovative Venture

  

 

Sanganan Prayog

 

{Sanganan-Computation Prayog- Experiment] is the space
technology and computational club of NIT Agartala,
successfully established on the NIT Agartala campus
Various activities have been conducted since then by the
club at the college campus . The response to these
activities has been overwhelming.

Aim of Sanganan Prayog is to assemble individuals who
are passionate about space technology and exploration.

* It provides practical knowledge in space technology

* Work shops, Experiments, Projects and Case studies

* Enhancement of science and technology in student.

« Improvement of skills in students as per industrial work.

Collaborations

« MoU (Memorandum of Understanding] with Space
Kidz India that produced the world's smallest
satellite KALAM SAT. Space Kidz has proposed to
provide support under incubation, projects '
research and development

« SDNX. SDNX proposes to organise workshop on
Aero Satellite and Rocket Modelling and
Space Technology Exhibition in NIT Agartala.

 

Projects done by students:

¢ Rover

« Air Ship.

¢ Star Classifier.

* Air Pollution Monitoring System by
image processing (ongoing) funded by ISRO.

* Spaceship model.

* Satellite earth stations.

¢« Telescope.

« Rocket Model.

 

2\


--- Page 24 ---
Institute Innovation
Council(lIC) and Startup

The objective of Innovation Cell, NIT-A_ is to
provide a common ground where students can
tinker, make, learn, explore, share and can work
on Ideas to convert them to working prototypes
and to further promote the culture of innovation
driven entrepreneurship. NIT-A’'s IIC works’ with
collaboration with MHRD to identify and promote
innovative project and startup ideas of our
students.

e (PoC) Designing Remotely Operated floater
Robot and Surveillance Robot

e An omni directional autonomous robot for
transporting office commodities from room to
room.

e E-Bicycle

e Face Recognition Door Lock [Link of PoC-
https://youtu..be/eekevaRbU 7/8}

e KeepWriting

e Make the best out of waste

e General platform for study materials of college
students- ancorenita.com -received more than
3000 views

22


--- Page 25 ---
CEPR SNE a

CEO aru Meir eC Me ee Ce)
STE Ce cat)

SCR eae

DCU Cua ET

ert

Meas LUE
Cit :

we tt)
fla

RU Le

STC Cy CLO C Ea Mer Lue

RUPAM CHOWDHURY

pO ir

 

23


--- Page 26 ---
Collaborations and MOUs

 
  

 

The College has formed an
Industrial Advisory Committee
to mobise the uninterupted
industry-academic
collaboration that propels skill
for technology
entrepreneurship, project
managementn on-time
affirmative action towards
decesion making among the
students. It is also actively
working in collaboration with
Rubber Board for value
addition to rubber in Tripura.

NIT Agartala has signed many
MOUs(Memorandum of
Understanding} with various
IITs, NITs and also with
organisations for several
research programmes and
facilities of students

24

MOUs with Institutes

IT Guwahati
IIT Madras

IT Delhi

IIT Kanpur

IIT Hyderabad
NIT Warangal
VNIT Nagpur
SSU, California, USA
NIT Jalandhar
NIT Surathkal
IISER, Kolakata
CMTI Banglore
NEERI Nagpur
SLIET

CSIR NCL, Pune

       
   
 

MOUs with Organisations

MSME

ISRO

ONGC

NEEPCO

MHUPA

NHIDC

iBuild Innovations India


--- Page 27 ---
  

Academic and R&D

Infrastructure

Academic Complex

State of Art academic complex of NIT Agartala houses all of these
departments, laboratories and centres. The classrooms are equipped with
modern audio-visual aids. Virtual classroom facility often witnesses guest
lecture sessions by dignitaries, campus is fully connected through Wi-fi
and Wi-Max wireless backbone. Institute is also connected to National
Knowledge Network which is multi-gigabit pan-India network for providing
a unified high-speed network backbone for knowledge related institutions
in the country including all NITs and national laboratories.

   

 

 

Central Library

Central library which
journals, conference proceedings and standards, CDROMs, Audio Tapes,
Video Tapes and several e-Books are available. The library subscribers

gain access to

department also has departmental library to aid to the facility in the

campus.

rich

is about 1 Lakh Volumes,

resources which gets regularly updated. Every

25

including textbooks,

  

Central Computing
Centre

Central Computing Centre is
the central computing
resource pool with centralized
server for the institute and is
involved in providing
computing support to the
institution. Campus — intranet
facility for file sharing and
communication and dedicated
internet connections through
VSAT-ERNET are also available.

  
   
  
  


--- Page 28 ---
 

   
   

    
 

C-DAC Centre of Excellence

With C-DAC, NIT Agartala envisages strategic collaboration
between the two organizations or research and
development in areas such as e-Learning, semantic Web
etc., and high-end non-formal training programs
in information and communication technologies and has led
to the establishment of C-DAC centre of excellence in the
campus 2009. Lab 100+ departmental and inter
departmental labs along with the central workshop are
equipped with the most advanced types of machineries
and resources and together aid to the state-of-the-art
research facility in the campus and cater to course
requirements as well. Newness factor of NIT Agartala
has allowed us to have many firsts and institute boasts of
some of the facilities which are unique and first ever in
India. Institute is in the process of setting up laboratories
and centre of excellence in collaboration with world’s
most prestigious companies of related sectors, ATMEL,
Siemens, Yokogawa, to name a few, to augment the
research infrastructure in campus.

 


--- Page 29 ---
 
  

Student Activity Centre

This is also newly constructed facility which will be
the nerve centre of all student activities on the campus.
This houses all the clubs or students’ chapters functional
all over the college.

 

Seminar Hall
Seminar hall is newly constructed
facility to support the increasing
number of conferences and

seminars in the campus.

  

 
     
   
 

Virtual Classroom
Seminar hall is newly
constructed facility to
support the increasing
number of conferences
and seminars in
the campus.

  
  
 

  

 
      
 

  

  

21


--- Page 30 ---
Latest Facilities

ISRO Téebh In tricot n

Centre

The centre was unveiled remotely from the
country’s tech hub Bengaluru in Karnataka
in September 2018. If incubates start-ups to
build applications and products, along with
the industry, that can be used in fufure space
missions. The centre develops’ prototypes
of components required for space technology,
in partnership with the industry, which will
be acquired by ISRO for its future space
missions. While the incubation centre will
promote manufacturing and innovations, the
institute will focus on space research. It will
also provide Tripura with an opportunity to
steer ahead in the Information Technology |IT]
and manufacturing sectors.

COl Centre of Innovation
COl has diverse expertise and resources and offer a variety of options,

  

such as job enablement, startup incubation, and engagement in projects
that helps to solve local challenges.

Super Computer Facility

The college is equipped with latest
Super-Computer facility PARAM. It is
the second technical and research
institute in the North East after IIT
Guwahati to have super computing
facility. PARAM Supercomputing
infrastructure would enable the
institute to begin and pursue
interdisciplinary research in all societal
sectors of the economy by modern
computational research
methodologies where the focus would
be on accuracy with a clear purpose
of decision making.

 

28


--- Page 31 ---
Placement Procedures

 
 

 

 
 

The Placement Sessions begins in the month of Ju
and goes up fill June to following year.

Invitations with the relevant information are sent to
the various organizations by the Placement Cell.

LA

The details of the JNF are made available online to the students

 

Point of Contact [Student & Faculty] is allotted to
the organizations.

 

along with other information furnished by the organization.
Interested and eligible students {as per the criteria specified by
the company) show their willingness to appear in the
recruitment process of the organization by registering with the
Training and Placement of the institute.

Co? The verified database of all such students is shared
TD) with the organization through the Single Point of glit.
| Contact [SPOC].

During campus recruitment, conducting of pre-.
placement talks, tests, GDs, personal interviews etc.
are coordinated and managed by the SPOC
allotted to the company.

At the end, the organization declares the list of the
final offers either on-campus or through e-mail.

The Training and Placement Cell also coordinates the signing of
offer letters by the students who have been selected.

245


--- Page 32 ---
Our Past Recruiters

Many renowned organisations visited our campus
to conduct their Campus Placement Drive.

Software & IT Firms such as:

Google, Amazon, AWS, Arcesium, Texas Instruments,
Fanatics, Tekion, PhonePe, Samsung, Oracle, Nvidia,
Paypal, Qualcomm, Paytm, Nokia, Commvault, Dell,
Seimens, Wadhwani, Cogopoot, Halliburton, Rapido,
Uolo, Chargebee, Mathworks, IDFC First bank,
Tekion Crop, etc.

Core manufacturing companies such as:

Vedanta oil and gas, Saint Gobain, TVS, FIAT,
Caparo Engineering, JCB, John Deere, Alstom,
Maruti Suzuki, Varroc, Thermax, Dalmia, Loreal, PSA
Groupe, Reliance Industries Ltd, Akzonobel, Tata
Motors, Ashok Leyland, Nippon Steel, Saint Gobain,
Cummins, CEAT tyres, Vedanta Electrosteel, Tata
Power, Caparo, Texas Instruments, Silicon labs,
C-DOT, Bosch, SIEMENS, etc

Companies recruiting for analytics profile:
Accenture, Deloitte, ZS Associates, Tata Consulting
Services(|TCS], NIT Data, Delhivery, Kantar Group,
Tredence Analytics, MU-Sigma, Capgemini,
Cognizant, Allstate, Cvent, etc.

 


--- Page 33 ---
Few of Our Academic
f Placement Partners

== POWERGRID
GAIL (India) Limited ecipatengeaneneae

 

eo fir) INDIA LIMITED
omeameeemees a cranes Creche CDAC
TATA STEEL <p Pen ieied MS
4 WeAlsoMakeTomorrow TATA MOTORS Sernplity. Create Sueur

TATA POWER

“D © vase a rou Cr) 6) L&T Heavy Engineering \WS
Mahindra L&T Construction

G ai Ce
cammon TVS 98, 2%  pdaimis

Builders to the Nation

   

) a AM/NS ,
YS _S Enriching Lives INDIA NIPPON STEEL
ie ZS
Reliance THERMAX nnanel vedanta Energy for India
==] .
a PRISMJOHNSONLIMITED  @HitachiEnergy  ()) BOSCH ALSTOM

Paylin SIEMENS Q) ses >> AMDZ\

Google amazon ===" Deloitte. pwc

HCL TECHNOLOGIES

ts | ie Infosys Lil ORACLE Capgemini@

Let's Solve
ote, ORACLE 2- ae >
Ee eee :
wipro) FINANCIAL SERVICES amdocs acce nture

 

al


--- Page 34 ---
NOKIA

INTUIT

NTT DaTa

magicbricks

d»Dolcera

Q

iQUANTI

 

Discovery

——
éruminds

Qoptum

Tredence

‘Connect the Dots

Cognizant

@LG

Life's Good

comviva

“fe

TECHNOLOGY

LUMcN

 

AVIVA

he AXIS BANK

1c =

REAL To

Incture

 

virtusa UOLO
L&T Technology Services (intel,

Cyt Nera

i
TEXAS
INSTRUMENTS |i! !Dapper

DELHIVErY

Small World

  

KEC

IC TEATRO LATED

Allstate

. TEkKIOM

 

EL a es Le
— See

Eo

www PULLS US

6

uy upstox

Phillips Carbon Black Limited

HLS”

ASIA LIMITED

5») NUCLEGS
~ SOFTWARE

a

SILICON LABS

QoQ Bandhan
Bank

IDFC FIRST s

2 waowwmamat — RAAMGROUP

HALLIBURTON

 

OZ


--- Page 35 ---
How to reach us?

 
 
          
    
   

Airline Connectivity

Direct Flights From Agartala
‘Silchar, Guwahati, Imphal,
Kolkata & Delhi

 
 

‘Connecting Flights From
Bhubaneshwar, Chennai, Hyderabad,
Mumbai,Bengalore, Amedabad & Rachi

NIT Agartala

Rail Line Connectivity

~~ FOR NOW, TRAINS FROM
sormayow “CAPITAL TO MAJOR CITIES

+ nh
7 oo

“aNEW DELHI __Dibfugartr
Pe na ge
a | re = ey

 

pn, Citys PEt le tl}
&_ Dhenedgbade—7 Ra ea aitala
— ef ae a ¥
‘ft —— Bilaspur ~~"Howrah
te t *
is reas ad Bhubarses"
MumbaiCentral 7 ye
i Secunderabad 1
Madgaon® ff
Berigalunt 8), » Chennai

Wearing ‘face cover’ must

Thiruvananthapuram
"J Lines between cities are norae tual routes

   
 

30


--- Page 36 ---
Airline Connectivity

    
  
 

Airlines Destinations

Air India Delhi, Kolkata
FIyBig Guwahati

Akasa Air Banglore, Mumbdi,,
Indigo Hyderabadi ,

Guwahati, Imphal

 

The popular Airlines that serve Agartala: IndiGo and airlndia

e IATA code: IXA

« Address: Maharaja Bir Bikram Airport CA Agartala -
799009 Tripura

« Enquiries No: 0381-2342224

There are direct flights to Agartala from:

{1} Delhi, which are approximately ehr 45min long.

(2} Kolkata, which are approximately 35 minutes long.

(3) Guwahati, which are approximately thr O5min long

(4) Bengaluru, which are approximately 3 hr long.

{5} Mumbai, which are approximately 5 hr long via kolkata

From Maharaja Bir Bikram Airport, also known as Agartala
Airport, one can book an auto of a car to take them to
National Institute of Technology Agartala directly. One can
also take a bus to Ranirbajar and from there they can book

an auto to National Institute of Technology Agartala. Uber
Autos are also available in Agartala which can be used to
reach one’s destination.

 

34


--- Page 37 ---
Rail Line Connectivity

  

Agartala is connected with important junctions like
Guwahati, New JalpaiGuri, Sealdah, Securendrabad, Rani
Kamlapati(Bhopal], Deoghar and Anand Vihar at New Delhi
by some express train like Rajdhani Express, Humsafar
Express, Jan Shatabdi, Tripura Sundari Express,Kanchanjangha
Express and also other important places of the country.
Apart from passenger trains, goods trains ply upto Agartala
and Udaipur. Agartala railway station at Badharghat is the
main junction of the state. Passenger Reservation System
(PRS) is available at Agartala, Udaipur and Dharmanagar.
Unreserved Ticketing System |UTS] is functional in all stations
except Mungiakami.

For more details about railway connectivity of the state log
on irctc.co.in

 
  
   
  

The Jirania Railway Station is approximately 3.2km and
Agartala is approximately 2ikm away from the National
Institute of Technology, Agartala. Autos can be booked
which will help one to reach the Institute within 30 minutes.

a0


--- Page 38 ---
Chairman- Dr. John Deb Barma
johndeb.nita@gmail.com
placements@nita.ac.in

Vice Chairman & TPO- Dr. Jawahar Paulraj
dr.pJawahar@gmail.com

+91 8754849740
nita.tnp@gmail.com/placements@nita.ac.in

Student Placement Coordinators

UG Program

Biotechnology and Biochemical Engineering

Esika Roy Sagarika Roy
6033055962 71642811027
esikaroy9@gmail.com sagarikaroy540@gmail.com

Civil Engineering

Abhishek Lokhande Sagarika Biswas Rahul Maurya
9890098796 9366783128 9415112322
lokhandeabhishek2002@gmail.com | sagarikabiswas.study@gmail.com} rahulmauryatl8e@gmail.com

Chemical Engineering

Krishna Biswas Mahendra Jaiswal
8974140408 9680179072
krishnabiswas.nita@gmail.com mk8223457@gmail.com

Computer Science and Engineering

Ankit Gautam Girase Ankit Bharatsing Shagun Tripathi
8273577091 8788095411 7398147661
a53gau@gmail.com ankitgirase27@gmail.com shaguntripathi201718@gmail.com

Electronics and Communication Engineering

Himanshu Kumar Singh Shibargha Chakraborty
8789024649 9863280061
himanshusinghpurnea@gmail.com} shibargha990@gmail.com

 


--- Page 39 ---
Electrical Engineering
Sumit Kumar Koustuvdyuti Chakraborty Kumar Gaurav

717137844292 8787650125 6201290500
sumitkumar3745@gmail.com koustuvdyutichakraborty4@gmail.com kumar317gaurav@gmail.com

Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering

Sai Yashwanthi Chintada Eshita Bhattacharjee
9866191787 9774383036
sai.yashwanthi204@gmail.com bhattacharyaeshita@gmail.com

Mechanical Engineering

Chayan Debbarma Sarita jakhar
9366792076 8619488153
chayan.nit24@gmail.com sarita21042002@gmail.com

Production Engineering

Vishwala Sarma Ankur Kumar Mahato
8210977316 7004278428
vishwala.sarma55@gmail.com ankurmahatol2jan@gmail.com

Dual Degree Program

Mathematics

Dharmendra Raj
8955954990
dharmendraraj776692@gmail.com

Gaurav Singh
9691274310
gs969198@gmail.com

Chemistry

Priyanshu Tripathi
1877097549
prtr7877@gmail.com

Physics

Saikat Saha
9831599878
saikat.vt.2018@gmail.com

 

a]


--- Page 40 ---
PG Program

MBA

Sandeep Saha Sachin Chowdhuri

8806805824 8132823256
saha28101995@gmail.com sachinchowdhuri52@gmail.com

M.Tech Bio Engineering

Theertha Dhanesh
6360340853
theerthad113@gmail.com

MCA Computer Science and Engineering

Debanshu Ranjan Mohanty
7684000829
debanshu.nita@gmail.com

M.Tech Electronics and Communication Engineering

Divyanshu Kumar
8709716316
akdivyanshuraj@gmail.com

M.Tech Electrical Engineering
Arijit Pal

9774720672

arijitpaly862@gmail.com

 

oo
