
--- Page 1 ---
Centre for Career Development
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura. INDIA 799 046
F.NITA. 72(1-CCD)ADMIN/2018-19/L
Date:21/07/2025
NOTIFICATION
This is for information to all the final year students of NIT Agartala (UG & PG) that, based on the
approval of the Competent Authority, the new institute placement policy, rules, and regulations
have been framed, which is given as Annexure -A.
The studenis are infomed to strictly follow the institute's placement policy. rules. and regulations.
Prof. (Dr.) John Deb Barma
Chairman, CCD
1. The P.S to the Director, NIT Agartala. for ind information to the Director.
2 The Registrar, NITAgartala, for kind information.
3 Dean (AA), NIT Agartala. for kind information.
4. Dean (SW), NIT Agartala, for kind information.
5. All HoDs, NIT Agartala, for kind information.
6. The system administrator. for uploading the notice to the Institute website.
Prof. (DryJohn Deb/Barma
Chairman, CCD
Mail id: nita.tnp@gmail.com, placemnents@nita.ac.in

--- Page 2 ---
Centre for Career Development
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura, INDIA 799 046
Annexure-A
INSTITUTE PLACEMENT POLICY
A student can avail a maximum of three Job offers from the campus, the details are as follows:
1. NORMAL TIER: Registered and eligible interested students can participate in the placement
drive under the Normal Tier. (COMPULSORY or OPTIONAL t0 be decided by the CCD)
2. STANDARD TIER: All registered eligible students are required to participate in the plucement
drive under the Standard Tier. (COMPULSORY o r OPTIONAL to be decided by the CCD)
3. DREAM TIER: Registered eligible students interested in the job can participate in the
placement drive under the Dream Tier. (OPTIONAL)
Any company that will offer an internship followed by a Performance-Based Offer will be
allocated under the STANDARD TIER, But the drive will be optional for the eligible students.
Any students selected for an internship, followed by performance-based PPO /FTE, will be
allowed to participate in DREAM AND NORMAL TIER placement drives.
The attocation of tiers fNORMAL, STANDARD, &D REAM) will be decided by the CCD, NIT
Agartala. based on factors such as the institute's industry relationships, prospects, company
prospects, institutional prospects, and other parameters.
All PSUs will be considered under the DREAM Tier.
If a student is placed in the DREAM Tier, they will not be allowed to participate in any other
campus placement drives.
If a student is placed in the STANDARD Tier, they may not be allowed to participate in the
NORMAL Tier campus placement drive further. However, they will be allowed to participate in
the DREAM Tier campus placement drive.
If a student is placed in the NORMAL Tier, they may be allowed to participate in both the
STANDARD Tier and DREAM Tier campus placement drives.
If as tudent is placed in any DREAM TIER company, they will not be eligible for any other
Internship/ Intern FTE/I ntern followed by PPO through on-campus and off-campus.
If a student is placed in any DREAM TIER company, other tier offers (normal and or standard)
will be rendered null and void.
If as tudent registers for a company's placement or internship process but fails to participate in any
stage of the selection process (e.g., PPT, test, GD, or interView), they will be considered PLACED
in the respective tier of that drive.
NoO biection Certificate (NOC) will not be issued tor any sIx-month internship (on-campus or of.
campus) without an FTEo r Performance-Based Offer, regardless of the source of the opportunity
A Student may receive ONE pre-placement offer through a hackathon or competition, However
they will still be eligible to participate in on-campus placement drives in accordance with the
.prevailing rules, without any exceptions.
Mail id: nita.tnp@gmail.com, placements(@nita.ac.in

--- Page 3 ---
Centre for Career Development
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura. INDIA 799 046
INSTITUTE PLACEMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS
A. ELIGIBILITY & REGISTRATION:
1 All the final year student interested in campus placement (0n campus and off campus) should
register for campus placements with the Centre for Career Development (CCD). Placement
Registration is for the final placement session only.
2. Registration for placement will be done during the month of June.
3. Campus placement is a facility provided for the students. Students who are not interested in
placement are advised not to register for placement. Students who do not register for placement
have to compulsorily give a declaration for not participating in the placement drives while
completing the placement registration proces. Students who have not registered for placement
will not be allowed to participate in any of the placement processes (even in Public Sector Units)
that occur through CCD, NIT Agartala.
4. Students have to fill up a Google form to register for the placement session. The student who does
not register will not be enlisted in the students available for placement. It is the responsibility of
the student coordinators of the respective department to complete the registration process in time
as decided by the CCD.
5. In the Google form, there should be a declaration that "All the information provided in the Google
form is true to my knowledge and any violation in the information provided will be punishable by
the authority" and an acceptance of the terms and conditions.
B. TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
Placement Policy: Information on the placement policy has to be cleared to the students
registering for placements with a declaration as follows:
Ih ave read and completely understood the placement policy with its pros and cons, and Ia ccept
that I will abide by the rules and regulations framed by the Centre for Career Development.
C. PRE-PLACEMENT TALKS (PPT):
1. Information regarding PPT will be provided through the respective student placement
Coordinator(s) well in advance. Students should be seated in the designated venue I5 minutes
before the scheduled start of the PPT.
2. Attendance for PPT is compulsory and if students did not appear for PPT, action will be taken as
per the Institute Student Discipline Manual.
3. Students must go through the complete selection procesS of a particular company, once they have
registered for that drive.
4. Any clarification regarding salary break-up, Job profile, place of work, bond details ete .
sought from the companies during PPT process.
5. O co n n c d e i ti t o h n e s o r f e f g e a r r s d i a n r g e s r a e l l a e r a y s e b d r e b a y k -u th p e , j c o o b m p p r a o n fi y le , , C p C la D ce o w f i w ll o n r o k t , b be o n r d e s d p e o ta n i s l i s b l e e t e for any terms and
TMail id: nita.tnp(@gmail.com, placements@nita.ac.in

--- Page 4 ---
Centre for Career Development
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala. Tripura, INDIA 799 046
D. DRESS CODE:
Students must be formally dressed whenever they participate in any interaction with a company
(Physical and Virtual)
CCD office reserves the right to remove a student from attending the selection process/PPT, if they do
not follow the below-mentioned dress code:
During Placement/ PPT/ Written test/online test / Interview Session
V Full Sleeve Shirt (preferably white or light colored), (tucked in) with formal blazer/ overcoat
and tie (preferably Navy blue or black colored)
Formal Trousers, (preferably black or dark colored (full pant) (No Jeans, shorts, and casuals)
(cid:20) Formal Shoes (polished)
Should be taken as a compulsory dress code for Boys.
Selwar Kameez/ Sarees or full formal suit with formal polished shoes for girls students
Should be taken as a compulsory dress code for Girls.
For ad efaulter, action will be taken as per the Institute Student Discipline Manual.
E. IDENTITY CARDS:
Students must bring their institute identity cards with-them whenever they go through the
placement process. Without identity cards, they won't be allowed to take part in the placement
process.
F. PLACEMENT PROCESS:
It is the responsibility of the student to check announcements/ notices/ updated information / shortlisted
names etc. in the respective groups. Students are expected to be punctual.
G. ATTENDANCE & PUNCTUALITY:
I. Registered shortlisted students are bound to go through the entire selection process unless rejected in
between by the company. Any student who withdraws intentionally in the middle of a selection
process, action will be taken as per the Institute Student Discipline Manual.
II. Action will be taken as per the Institute Student Discipline Manual for late comers for PPT/
Aptitude test /G D/interview/ or other process.
H DISePLINE-Students must maintain disciptine and demonstrate ethical behavior in every action
they take during the placement process. Any student found violating the disciplinary rules set by the
company or defaming the institute's name will face disciplinary action as per the Institute Shdent
Discipline Manual.
IV. Students are not permitted to communicate directly with the company HR representatives or
officials of the recruitment teams before joining. In speCial cases, written permission should be
obtained from the Chairman of the CCD.
V JG students. after registration, it is compulsory to participate in all the campus recruitment drive of
the institute, failing which, action will be taken as per the Institute Student Discipline Manual
VÊ PG student, after registration, it is compulsory to participate in all the campus recruitment drivo
the institute; on failing, action will be taken as per the Institute Student Discipline Manial
Mail id: nita.tnp@gmail.com, placements@nita.ac.in

--- Page 5 ---
Centre for Career Development
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura, INDIA 799 046
VI Any student found engaging in misbehavior or unethical practices at any stage of the selection
process will face disciplinary action as per the Institute's Student Discipline Manual.
VIlI. If any company changes the terms and conditions or other criteria after the declaration of the result.
CCD will not be responsible for the same.
IX. If any communication is received by CCD from the HR of any company, stating that "selected
students will not be allowed to sit in any further placement drive," then the students will be given a
ctoice whether to sit for the particular placement drive or not. Irrespective of the placement policy.
the same shall be implemented, but this information regarding the conditions levied by the company
will be informed to the students prior to the placement process.
X. For all matters not covered by the above regulations, the CCD office will use its preference to take
appropriate decisions. The decision taken by this office shall be binding on all students/scholars.
XI. CCD holds the right to make exceptions to the Rules and Regulations, Policies on consultation with
the authority as and when required for the benefit of the Institute.
XII. The above statements are applicable for the current academic session 2025-2026 only. Placement
beyond the academic session will be available only for the unplaced students.
CCD holds the right to make exceptions to the Rules and Regulations, Policies on consultation with the
authority as and when required for the benefit of the Institute.
Prof. (Drs John Deb Barma
Chairman, CCD
Mail id: nita.tnp@gmail.com, placements@nita.ac.in