
--- Page 1 ---
Problem Statement for CFP
2024 (Annexure I)
SI. No. Categories Deliverables Remarks
A Mineral Exploration
(i) Enhance Resource Discoveries
1. Geological & Geophysical maps on the same scale 3D and 4D maps based on
1 Deposit Scale Modelling integrated studies.
2. Better resolution Geological Map using Artificial Algorithm.
1. Formulation of self-consistent numerical models for the mineralogical
evolution of fluid chambers in the lithosphere and upper mantle.
2. Development of 3D optimization tools for joint inversion of data sets
constrained by petrophysics.
3. Identification of deep-penetrating faults and crustal suture zones, which are
important controls on the movement of metal-bearing fluids and, hence,
Mapping Lithospheric
2 indicators of prospectivity.
Architecture
4. Development of laboratory models to study the fluid-rock interaction,
resulting in rock deformation and thermal transitions in mineral systems due
to heat transfer.
5. Understanding and characterizing the fluid-bearing mineral system
components with respect to their response to geophysical exploration
methods.
1. The goal is to improve our fundamental understanding of the linear and non-
linear polarization phenomena of natural mineralized porous media at various
3 Mineral Discrimination
scales and over the frequency band of 1 MHz to 30 MHz.
2. The interfacial and textural properties of rocks will be characterized.
1. Petrophysical data sets of the different metallogenic provinces of India,
consisting of density, susceptibility, conductivity, resistivity, chargeability,
4 Petrophysical Data Base
velocity, location, stratigraphic unit, lithology, weathering, alteration,
metamorphism, porosity, and geochemical and mineralogical information.
1. System development & deployment
Remote Survey Hyper-spectral 2. Mineral mapping and feature extraction for Hyperspectral Imaging (HSI).
5
imaging One of the biggest challenges in HSI is determining which types of features
should be extracted from pixels.
1. Develop geophysical approaches to rare earth element evaluation.
2. Conduct geochemical and mineralogical analyses of heavy mineral sand
samples from both archives and field efforts.
3. Analyze new and existing data on the samples to evaluate links between
Rare Earth Elements and Platinum geophysical, geochemical properties, rare earth element content, and local
6
Group of Elements geologic processes.
4. Synthesize geophysical, geochemical, and geological data using AI, and relate
results to geological processes acting on a regional scale.
5. Study the dispersion of REE/PGE in secondary environments such as placer
deposits, weathered horizons, and gossans.
1. Cross-well tomography maps.
7 Cross Well Tomography
2. Integration of these maps with surface maps to reduce uncertainties.
1. To develop a new passive low-frequency surface wave field test methodology.
2. To develop a new wave field transformation technique to generate high-
Development of a Novel Low-Cost
resolution images of the subsurface from a passive surface wave test.
Ambient Reconnaissance
3. To develop a fast and accurate numerical algorithm to model the subsurface
8 Technique for the Exploration of
earth.
Mineral Deposits in Geosciences
4. To develop an analytical Jacobian-based inverse model.
and Exploration
5. To develop a convolutional neural network-based algorithm to predict mineral
deposits.
Page 1

--- Page 2 ---
Problem Statement for CFP
2024 (Annexure I)
1. To develop the Underwater Hyperspectral Unfixing algorithm and design a
prototype for mineral detection.
Development of an Automated 2. To preprocess the images using a suitable dimensionality reduction technique for
Mineral Detection System Using subsequent analysis to extract the end members' signatures and estimate the
9 Underwater Hyperspectral abundance fraction using deep convolutional neural networks.
Imaging for Deep-Sea Mining in 3. To validate the results obtained using the proposed method with ground truth
Geosciences and Exploration data.
4. To implement the developed algorithm in FPGA-based reconfigurable
computing.
Developing an Integrative
1. Development of an automated prototype to assist polarization-sensitive
Approach to Geophysical
hyperspectral imaging devices in capturing a large field of view.
Exploration with Simultaneous
2. Exploration of mineral content or deposits in test fields using the developed
Application of Polarization-
10 system.
Sensitive Hyperspectral Imaging
3. Ambient noise recordings with analysis via the horizontal-to-vertical spectral
and the HVSR Method Assisted by
ratio technique on sites determined by hyperspectral imaging, and subsequent
Machine Learning in Geosciences
correlation using machine learning-based analysis.
and Exploration
(ii) Get Real-Time Data
1. Develop an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) capable of carrying up to a 10 kg
payload (e.g., geophysical instruments, measurement systems) and flying/
hovering for up to 90 minutes.
Development of an autonomous 2. Design the craft using materials that do not interfere with the functionality of
1 multirotor unmanned aerial the instruments being carried as a payload.
vehicle for geophysical survey 3. Create appropriate interfaces to provide the necessary power for the onboard
devices during the survey.
4. Minimize the turnaround time to facilitate easy preparation for the next round
of surveys.
1. Interpretational techniques for hyperspectral data.
2. Hand-held and down-hole analytical instruments.
2 Drilling Technology
3. Directional drilling, improved drill bits, and down-hole logging.
4. Improvements in slim hole drilling and in-situ measurements.
B. Safe, Smart, and Sustainable (3S) Mining
(i) Smart Mining
1. Improve operational efficiency (OE) by optimizing unit operations in mining
through the application of smart sensors, real-time data acquisition, data
transfer, and analysis for performance prediction using Cyber-Physical
Systems (CPS).
2. Increase machine reliability and availability through continuous condition
monitoring, online real-time data transfer using suitable sensors and IoT,
prediction of failures through AI-based data analysis, and implementation of
routine and preventive maintenance schedules based on machine health
condition monitoring.
3. Optimize resources by ensuring optimum machine deployment through
capturing real-time data on machine downtime, idle time, operational delays,
Optimization of mining machinery
1 etc., and analyzing this data using AI.
and resources using CPS
4. Optimize energy usage in all activities from mine to mill by capturing unit-
wise energy consumption data, analyzing it using CPS, and benchmarking
energy consumption.
AI-CPS for Optimization of Mining Machinery and Resources:
5. AI combined with Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) can optimize mining
machinery and resources by analyzing real-time data from sensors embedded
in equipment and mining operations. This allows for predictive maintenance,
efficient resource allocation, and dynamic scheduling to maximize
productivity and minimize downtime.
Page 2

--- Page 3 ---
Problem Statement for CFP
2024 (Annexure I)
1. 3D Simulation & Modelling
2. Digital Twins: By creating a virtual model that is fed real-time data from the
field, scenarios can be quickly tested, and operations and production can be
optimized
3. Autonomous Drilling
4. Autonomous Equipment: Greater use of self-controlling machines in harsh
environments
5. Reducing environmental impact with AI: Sensors and IoT to monitor
excavation, extraction, and general mining activities, keeping tabs on the
2 Mine Simulation Systems spread of waste and harmful materials.
6. GIS analytical information with graphical representation for better
understanding and policy making and AI-based decision support system.
AI-Powered Mine Simulation Systems:
7. AI-driven simulation systems can model various mining scenarios, including
equipment deployment, resource extraction, and logistics, enabling miners to
simulate and optimize operations before implementation. This helps in
reducing risks, optimizing processes, and improving decision-making.
1. Development of an effective underground mine communication system for
dynamic and challenging sub-surface environments: Improved Through-The-
Earth (TTE) Communications for Underground Mines.
2. Designing portable communication devices based on UHF frequencies for
miners in underground coal mines.
3. Development of Underground Positioning Systems (UPS): Smart portable
systems for tracking miners, including mine safety monitoring, and alerting.
4. Creation of a low-cost AI/ML portable RADAR system for monitoring and
predicting rock and dump slope failures in open-cast mines.
5. Designing a novel surveillance and evacuation system for underground mine
Reduce risks: Development of
safety.
3 Smart Communication, Sensing
6. Implementation of Drone, LIDAR, GIS, and Remote Sensing-based Mine
and Monitoring Technologies
Surveillance System.
Development of Smart Communication, Sensing, and Monitoring Technologies for
Risk Reduction:
7. AI can be utilized in developing smart communication, sensing, and
monitoring technologies to enhance safety and reduce risks in mining
operations. AI algorithms can analyze sensor data in real-time to detect
potential hazards, monitor environmental conditions, and provide early
warnings to workers.
(ii) Safe Mining
a Major hazard mitigation using CPS
1. Development of an integrated system for continuous monitoring of indicators
of spontaneous heating using sensor-based technology, analysis of
spontaneous heating indices using artificial intelligence (AI) based analytical
software and activation of control measures including Mass Inertization (N2
1 Spontaneous combustion of coal
or CO2), withdrawal of persons etc.
2. Development of wearable portable sensors for the detection of gases like
CH4, H2, CO
3. Detection of portable sensors for detection of hotspot
1. Development of an Integrated system of continuous monitoring of
accumulation of inflammable gases in mine atmosphere using sensor-based
detectors, analysis of explosibility indicators using Artificial Intelligence (AI)
2 Explosions in coal mines based analytical software and activation of control measures including
ventilation on demand, withdrawal of persons etc.,
2. Design and activation of sensor-based explosion barrier to prevent the
propagation of explosion,
Page 3

--- Page 4 ---
Problem Statement for CFP
2024 (Annexure I)
3. Design of sensor-based instrumentation for the detection of methane layering
by sensor-based instrumentation,
4. Development of portable sensors for the detection of inflammable gases like
CH4, H2, and CO.
5. Development of portable sensors for determination of inert content in
roadway dust.
1. Development of geophysical method or instrument for identifying the
presence of water bodies /water logged workings/accumulation of
unconsolidated material ahead of mine workings, which are inaccessible, and
analysis of geophysical parameters of the presence of water bodies using AI
The inrush of huge quantities of for predicting the location of such water bodies.
3
water or unconsolidated mass 2. Development of a handheld portable water body detector for proving the
presence of water bodies immediately ahead of mine workings
3. Continuously monitoring the inflow of water into mine workings and
analysing the data using AI to identify the probable hazard of the inrush of
water.
1. Development of an integrated strata management system for continuous
monitoring of strata behaviour and analysing the data using artificial
intelligence-based software for prediction of failure of strata ahead of time
2. Development of a handy tool for detecting the presence and location of bed
separation in roof rock, based on onsite monitoring of geophysical parameters
of roof rock and digitally expressing the failure by using analytical software.
3. Development of an integrated strata management system for monitoring the
strata behaviour by using sensors on the existing support system like
hydraulic props, powered supports etc. and real-time analysis of monitoring
Ground failure in Underground
4 data for prediction of strata behaviour as well as activating the controls on the
mine workings
support system as required.
4. Continuous monitoring health condition of the support system and prediction
of failure of the support system. Activating alarm for taking action and also
activating alarm for withdrawal of persons in case of imminent failure
5. Monitoring behaviour of goaf in caving method of mining, using cavity
scanner or similar other instruments, analysing data using AI to predict the
behaviour of caving, like interval and magnitude of periodic weighting, main
weighting, movement of strata vertically as well as horizontally, impact of
superimposition of caving panels etc.
b Minor hazard mitigation using CPS
1. Development of suitable sensor based portable detector for identifying the
presence and location of misfired shots by scanning the profile of blasted
material and using AI for analysis of scanning data
2. Development of App based tracking system using sensors or tags for ensuring
human and equipment exclusion zone during blasting in opencast mines.
Same system may be useful.
3. Prediction of fly rocks from data of blasting detail using AI
4. Development of expert system for measurement while drilling (MWD)
1 Blasting
technology coupled with AI and machine learning to ensure optimum blast
design
AI Optimization for Blasting:
5. AI can analyze geological data, historical blasting records, and real-time
sensor data to optimize blast patterns, timing, and explosives usage, reducing
environmental impact and increasing safety.
1. Development of Sensor-based proximity detection devices capable of
detecting the proximity of other equipment and activating an alarm for both
Collision of mobile equipment or operators.
2
hit by machines in UG mines 2. Development of Sensor-based tags or personal wearable devices to send an
alert signal to the machine operator approaching within the operating zones
and similar audio-visual alert to the persons approaching the machine.
Page 4

--- Page 5 ---
Problem Statement for CFP
2024 (Annexure I)
AI-Based Collision Prevention for Mobile Equipment:
3. AI systems can utilize sensors and machine learning algorithms to detect and
prevent collisions of mobile equipment in underground mines by providing
real-time alerts and autonomous control.
1. Development of suitable technology using geophysical method for detecting
subsurface unstable areas and application of AI for locating such unstable
Potholing and collapse of areas.
important surface structures due to
AI-Driven Surface Structure Stability Monitoring:
3 unstable subsurface areas from
mine workings or subsurface mine
2. AI can analyze subsurface data, including geospatial information and mine
fire
workings, to predict areas prone to potholing and collapse, enabling
preventive measures to protect important surface structures.
1. Development of an integrated system for sensor-based continuous monitoring
of exhaust discharge from the machines like SOx, NOx, CO and DPM,
Exposure to Diesel Particulate 2. Analysis of data using AI and prediction of concentration of DPM or other
4
Matter (DPM) beyond safe limit harmful diesel exhaust and
3. Automatic activation of mitigating measures like ventilation flow control,
controlling the movement of diesel vehicles
1. Development of an integrated system for sensor based continuous monitoring
of exhaust discharge from the machines like SOx, NOx, CO and DPM,
analysis of data using AI and prediction of concentration of DPM or other
harmful diesel exhaust and activation of mitigating measures like ventilation
flow control, controlling the movement of diesel vehicles
Exposure to toxic gases beyond
5
safe limit
AI Monitoring for Air Quality and Toxic Gases:
2. AI-powered monitoring systems can continuously analyze air quality data and
gas concentrations in underground mines, providing early warnings when
Diesel Particulate Matter (DPM) or toxic gases exceed safe limits.
1. Measuring and monitoring of physiological effects of the human body due to
fatigue, physiological stresses due to working and task conditions, and
physiological disorders due to lack of proper ergonomic design of machines
2. Prediction of fatigue level, level of physiological stresses and physiological
disorders by analysing the data using AI
3. Activation of machine interlock with digital fatigue detectors.
Workmen’s Fatigue and
6
physiological stresses or disorders
AI for Fatigue Management and Physiological Stress:
4. AI algorithms can monitor worker activities, physiological parameters, and
environmental conditions to detect signs of fatigue and physiological stresses,
optimizing work schedules and environments to reduce the risk of accidents
and health issues.
1. Sensor-based continuous monitoring of structural integrity of complex and
large-size machines or structures in mines and prediction of failure by
analysing the data using AI before actual failure.
2. Sensor-based monitoring of structural stability of heavy machines in mines
and prediction of loss of stability by analysing data of the physical effects of
Loss of structural stability and
structural stability on different parts of machines.
7 integrity of heavy machines or
structures in mines
AI for Structural Integrity Monitoring:
3. AI can monitor equipment and structural health using sensor data to detect
anomalies, predict potential failures, and schedule maintenance, preventing
loss of structural stability and integrity in heavy machines or structures.
Page 5

--- Page 6 ---
Problem Statement for CFP
2024 (Annexure I)
1. Sensor-based continuous monitoring of structural integrity of complex and
large-size machines or structures in mines and prediction of failure by
analysing the data using AI before actual failure.
2. Sensor-based monitoring of structural stability of heavy machines in mines
and prediction of loss of stability by analysing data on the physical effects of
structural stability on different parts of machines.
8 Dump body stabilizers for tippers
AI-Enabled Dump Body Stabilizers:
3. AI systems can optimize dump body stabilizers for tippers by analyzing
terrain data, load conditions, and vehicle dynamics in real-time, ensuring safe
dumping operations and preventing accidents.
(iii) Sustainable Mining
1. Development of knowledge/method/process to determine the peak gas rate or
well potential of CBM/CMM well in the exploratory stage and do away with
the requirement of pilot wells.
2. Development of knowledge/method/process to deliver robust Mechanical
Earth Models (MEM) with the integration of geological, geophysical,
petrophysical, coal reservoir, and production data with coal reservoir
geomechanics.
3. Development of structured well-drainage-area based AI models as general
methane production forecasting tool for coal seam degasification using ML-
based algorithms.
4. Development of policy framework and guidelines for the CBM/CMM
drainage.
Reducing Green House Gas 5. Development of a technical screening guide system using an artificial neural
(GHG) emissions, and network (ANN) to assist in the selection of production methods such as
1
monetization of methane gas drilling, completion, and stimulation in the CBM/CMM reservoir.
through CBM/CMM activities 6. Development of Indigenous Pneumatic Controllers for cost-effective
separation of gas and water in the separator and accurate metering of water.
7. Development of technology and process that offers economical ways of
carbon capturing and utilization in enhanced coalbed methane (ECBM)
operation.
8. Development of an AI-enabled reservoir surveillance approach for timely
identification of the reason for any production decline, the reversal of
production decline by removing wellbore damage, and minimizing shut-down
of CBM/CMM wells for an extended period.
9. Development of indigenous permanently mounted sensors in CBM/CMM
wells to enable smart good technology
10. Development of cost-effective technologies for treatment and management of
water and wastewater.
C. Enhancing mining activities and novel use of minerals/coal
1. Estimation of the effect of different physical and chemical properties of
particles on their breakage.
2. Quantification of different particle processing stages’ effect on comminution.
3. Strategies for the introduction of efficiency-boosting techniques like
controlled blasting and particle pre-processing within and around
1 Extraction Cost Reduction
comminution circuits.
4. Development of novel comminution circuits integrated with blasting for
improving energy efficiency
5. Development of robust simulators aided by sensor-based online PSA (Particle
Size Analysers) to reduce the processing cost and even capital cost
Life extension of mining 1. Development of AI-based prediction model of wear and tear of screen panels,
2
equipment grinding media, liners etc.
Page 6

--- Page 7 ---
Problem Statement for CFP
2024 (Annexure I)
2. Ultra-fast onsite repair of worn out and corroded components of mining
machinery with the ability to prevent heat-related distortion, and requirement
of inert gas or vacuum sealed environment
3. Cost effective way to extend the useful life of mining machineries
significantly
1. Sensor-based/Processor controller aided cost-effective, environment-friendly
3 Deep cleaning of coal technology for deep cleaning of high-ash Indian coal
2. Report on techno-economic comparison of different deep-cleaning techniques
1. Development of AI-based CNTs, graphene and graphene oxide for their usage
as supercapacitors in high-energy storage materials to increase catalytic
4 Carbon based nanoparticles performance and effective drug delivery in biomedical applications
respectively.
2. Mechanistic understanding of nanoparticle synthesis from heterogeneous coal
1. Sewage sludge as a source of energy
Urban municipal waste processing
2. Sensor and AI-based enhanced water recovery from sewage sludge
5 for energy and precious metal
3. Pyrolysis char as a source of valuable metals/minerals e.g., phosphate, lead,
recovery
mercury, etc.
Mixing sewage sludge with fine
1. Sewage sludge as a source of energy.
coal waste/ carbon anodes/ forest
2. Proper utilization of coal waste /carbon anodes/ forest biomass to increase
6 bio-mass to increase calorific
calorific value.
value for subsequent use in cement
3. AI/Sensor based cleaner cement production
plants
1. Mine and mineral processing plant water as a source of precious metals
Recovery of valuable metals from 2. Sensor and Process controller aided treatment of wastewater to make it
7
process plant water available for use in agriculture, horticulture, fisheries and if possible, as
potable water
1. Application of AI in developing modified scheme for improved dewatering
performance of Indian red mud slurry
Holistic utilization of end products 2. Production of dewatered red mud for re-use
8 to address social and 3. Improved recovery of water from red mud slurry for recycling back to the
environmental concerns plant to reduce freshwater consumption.
4. Increased availability of land, reduced pollution of nearby water bodies and
land area, conservation of nearby forests, etc.
1. Prediction of water quality degradation and potential aquifer vulnerability in
down-gradient regions from a hypothetical uranium in situ recovery (ISR)
Machine Learning Approaches for
9 operation site.
Water Quality Testing
2. Identification of data gaps in mitigating these vulnerabilities, hydrogeological
characterization, and development of monitoring programs.
1. Sensor/processor controller aided blending of sal leaves and plant reject
2. Potential for rural employment generation through the social forestry
Utilization of Coal Cleaning Plant
10 programme
Rejects
3. Reduction of carbon footprint by utilizing renewable energy sources
4. Utilization of low-grade coal
1. Database on the occurrence of REE in Indian coals
Extraction of Rare Earth Elements 2. Information on the distribution of REE in different by-products of coal
11 (REE) from coal and its by- utilisation
products 3. Sensor/processor controller aided technique(s) for the extraction of REE from
coal at a different stage of preparation and utilisation and comparisons thereof.
1. Green and Clean method for CO2 and SO2 capture
2. Sensor-aided monitoring of Carbon capture and formation of conversion
12 Carbon and Sulphur Capture product
3. Biofuels from CO2 and SO2 capture
4. Obtaining carbon credit
Page 7

--- Page 8 ---
Problem Statement for CFP
2024 (Annexure I)
Early detection and prevention of
1. Early detection and prevention of spontaneous combustion of coal using UAV
13 spontaneous combustion of coal
in coal stockyards, non-active coal mines etc.
using UAV
Application of AI in enhancing the
1. Optimized use of material handling system through AI application
efficiency of material handling
14 2. Operating cost reduction
systems in coal and mineral
3. Maximizing the operating hours
processing and process metallurgy.
AI Techniques for a Multidisciplinary Approach Combining Ore Geology,
Geochemistry, Hydrogeology, Geometallurgy, Mining Engineering, Geostatistics, and
Ore geology, geochemistry,
Machine Learning for the Development of Reactive Transport Simulation Models for:
hydrogeology, geometallurgy,
15 mining engineering, and
1. In Situ Recovery (ISR) of Uranium, REEs, Copper, and Gold from sandstone-
geostatistics using machine
hosted and unconformity-associated mineral deposits.
learning techniques
2. Predicting the Environmental Footprint of Uranium In Situ Recovery.
Ministry of Coal
A. Improvement of safety, health, and environment
Development of a real-time monitoring system for assessing the health condition
of support structures and predicting their potential failures, including the
activation of alarms for immediate evacuation. Evaluation and mitigation of coal
Ground/strata control /Hard roof
bumps or rock bursts during the extraction of deep-seated coal seams, and
1 management in underground
monitoring the behaviour of goaf using cavity scanners or similar instruments,
mining
with data analysis performed through AI. Implementation of hydro-fracturing
techniques and the use of slow-acting expansion chemicals in drill holes within
roof strata to induce fractures for managing hard roofs.
Development of an integrated system and wearable portable sensors for
continuous monitoring of indicators for spontaneous heating by detecting hotspots
Prevention and control of and analyzing indices using artificial intelligence (AI)-based analytical software.
2 spontaneous combustion & fire in Activation of control measures including Mass Inertization (N2 or CO2),
highly gassy coal seams withdrawal of persons, equipment, etc. Technology development for pre-drainage
of coal seam methane by inseam/surface-to-inseam gas drainage system and its
standardization.
Surface potholing or collapse due Identification of sub-surface unstable areas due to fire or mining-induced cavities
3
to subsurface cavities using geophysical methods for stabilizing such areas by remote sealing.
Measuring and monitoring the physiological effects of the human body due to
fatigue, physiological stresses from working and task conditions, and
4 Fatigue management physiological disorders due to the lack of proper ergonomic design of machines.
Prediction of fatigue level, assessed by analyzing the data using AI. Activation of
machine interlock with digital fatigue detectors is also a key area.
Page 8

--- Page 9 ---
Problem Statement for CFP
2024 (Annexure I)
Monitoring of Mine Reclamation & Rehabilitation using remote sensing,
subsidence monitoring through advanced Geomatic tools (Radar Interferometry),
application of UAV, tree transplantation, integrated hydrological study for impact
assessment of mining activities on perennial rivers, biodiversity assessment, and
Environmental impact and
5 ecological study of coal mine reclamation/plantation sites following International
sustainable development
Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and UNFCCC methodologies.
Minimization of Diesel Particulate Matter (DPM), etc., are major areas of
research. It is also necessary to develop technologies utilizing excavation without
the use of explosives.
Although energy audit is being conducted regularly, energy efficiency and
Energy efficiency and optimization remain green areas for research. It is necessary to optimize the energy
6
optimization input and output of mining operations to improve efficiency and become an
energy-efficient industry.
AI can analyze geological data, monitoring data from sensors, and historical
AI for Ground/Strata Control in
7 records to predict ground conditions, manage hard roof formations, and optimize
Underground Mining
support systems to ensure safety and stability in underground mining operations.
AI algorithms can analyze various parameters such as gas concentration,
AI-Driven Prevention of temperature, ventilation data, etc., to detect early signs of spontaneous combustion
8
Spontaneous Combustion and Fire and fire in highly gassy coal seams, allowing for proactive measures to prevent
and control incidents.
AI can analyze geospatial data, including satellite imagery, geological surveys,
and ground monitoring data, to detect subsurface cavities and predict areas prone
to surface potholing or collapse, enabling preventive measures to be taken.
AI-Based Surface Cavity Detection and Prevention:
AI-Based Surface Cavity
9
Detection and Prevention
• AI algorithms can analyze geospatial data, including satellite imagery,
geological surveys, and ground monitoring data, to detect subsurface cavities
and predict areas prone to surface potholing or collapse. AI can also suggest
preventive measures to mitigate risks and prevent accidents.
AI can monitor operator activities, equipment status, and environmental
conditions to detect signs of fatigue and optimize work schedules to ensure worker
safety and productivity.
AI for Fatigue Management:
10 AI for Fatigue Management
• AI algorithms can monitor worker activities, equipment usage, and
environmental conditions to detect signs of fatigue and physiological stress.
By analyzing data patterns, AI can optimize work schedules, tasks allocation,
and rest periods to reduce fatigue-related risks.
AI can analyze environmental data to assess the impact of mining activities,
optimize resource utilization, and suggest sustainable practices to minimize
environmental footprint and comply with regulations.
AI for Environmental Impact and
11 AI algorithms can optimize energy usage in mining operations by analyzing
Sustainable Development
equipment performance data, scheduling tasks efficiently, and recommending
energy-saving practices, contributing to cost reduction and environmental
sustainability.
Page 9

--- Page 10 ---
Problem Statement for CFP
2024 (Annexure I)
B Alternative use of coal and clean coal technologies
A carbon nanotube is a seamless cylinder of rolled graphene sheet with high length-
to-diameter ratio, exhibiting impressive mechanical and electronic properties. Its
applications span electronics, composites, sensors, catalysts, fuel cells, textiles,
coatings, optics, and more.
Graphene, an atom-thick two-dimensional sheet of carbon atoms, is harder than
diamond yet more elastic than rubber, tougher than steel yet lighter than aluminium,
with superior electrical and thermal conductivity. Its applications include mechanical,
thermal, energy storage, coatings, sensors, electronics, catalysis, and biomedicine.
Coal to activated carbon
1 (AC)/carbon nanoparticles /carbon Research focuses on converting coal to activated carbon, carbon nanoparticles, CNTs,
nanotube (CNT) / Graphene and Graphene, along with pilot-scale studies and field implementation.
AI Optimization for Coal Conversion Processes:
• AI can optimize the processes involved in converting coal to activated carbon
(AC), carbon nanoparticles, carbon nanotubes (CNT), and graphene by
analyzing various parameters such as temperature, pressure, feedstock
composition, and reaction kinetics, leading to improved efficiency and
product quality.
Different technology has been established for CBM resource estimation and few
technologies are available for the production of CBM/CMM & AMM. It is
required to have technologies for commercial production of CBM/CMM/AMM.
AI-Driven Commercial Production Technology for CBM/CMM/AMM:
Technology for commercial
2
production of CBM/ CMM/ AMM
• AI algorithms can analyze geological data, reservoir characteristics, and
production parameters to optimize the commercial production of Coal Bed
Methane (CBM), Coal Mine Methane (CMM), and Abandoned Mine
Methane (AMM), maximizing gas recovery and profitability.
Surface & Underground Coal Mapping of Indian Coal for Gasification & Indigenous development of Surface &
3
Gasification underground coal gasification technology and field implementation.
Coal to chemicals, Fertilizer, and Characterization of coal, experimental and simulation studies, Pilot-scale study &
4
liquid field implementation.
Characterization of the site & development of technology to Capture the
Geothermal heat by Simulation, pilot, and field-scale study.
AI Optimization for Geothermal Energy Generation:
Establishment of geothermal
5
energy power generation ▪ AI can optimize the establishment of geothermal energy power generation by
analyzing geological data, reservoir characteristics, and production
parameters. AI algorithms can predict reservoir behaviour, optimize drilling
strategies, and enhance energy extraction efficiency.
Coal may be a substitution for furnace oil. R&D is needed in this field for the
utilisation of coal as a replacement for furnace oil. Development of
technology/method for replacement of furnace oil by coal through plasma.
CO2 Capture, Utilisation &
6
AI for CO2 Capture, Utilization & Storage (CCUS):
Storage
• AI can optimize CO2 capture processes from industrial emissions by
analyzing data from sensors and process parameters.
Page 10

--- Page 11 ---
Problem Statement for CFP
2024 (Annexure I)
Coal may be a substitution for furnace oil. R&D is needed in this field for
Replacement of furnace oil with
7 utilization of coal as a replacement for furnace oil. Development of
coal through plasma
technology/method for replacement of furnace oil by coal through plasma.
Coal quality estimation is an important parameter for predicting the future coal
reserve. An indigenous method is to be developed for Geotechnical
8 Coal quality estimation Characterization & Coal quality estimation from Borehole Logging Data. Also, a
method is required to delineate the coal potential zone where it is difficult to access
the area for exploration.
Rare earth is one of the essential materials for different electronic use. India is a
Assessment of Rare Earth
poor contributor to it the world market, as of date. Assessment of rare earth is one
9 Elements (REE) in Coal & Non-
of the prime areas of research in coal & non-coal strata with special emphasis on
Coal strata
North Eastern Coalfields.
Exploration in areas under forest cover or inaccessible areas, different state-of-
Development of geophysical
10 the-art geophysical exploration techniques is required to be developed for quick
exploration techniques
exploration of any unexplored area.
AI can analyze various parameters like coal composition, mineral content,
11 AI-Based Coal Quality Estimation calorific value, etc., from geological data, drilling samples, and historical records
to estimate coal quality accurately.
AI algorithms can process geological and geochemical data to assess the presence
Machine Learning for Rare Earth
12 and distribution of Rare Earth Elements in both coal and non-coal strata, enabling
Elements (REE) Assessment
better resource estimation and mining planning.
AI can optimize geophysical exploration by analyzing seismic, electromagnetic,
AI-Driven Geophysical
13
and other geophysical data to identify geological structures, mineral deposits, and
Exploration Techniques
coal seams more efficiently, leading to improved exploration success rates.
D Innovation & Indigenization (Under Make-in-India Concept)
Developing an active method for detecting buried individuals in opencast &
underground mines.
Indigenous development of an
AI-Powered Sensor Networks:
active method of detecting buried
1
humans for opencast and ▪ AI can analyze data from sensor networks including seismic sensors, acoustic
underground mines sensors, and imaging devices installed in mines. AI algorithms can detect
patterns associated with human presence and movements, enabling early
detection of buried humans.
Indigenization of integrated low-
power wireless load monitoring,
Development of a low-power wireless monitoring and tracking system using
2 gas monitoring, and tracking
RFID technology for load, gas and tracking in underground mining.
system using RFID technology for
underground mining
Page 11

--- Page 12 ---
Problem Statement for CFP
2024 (Annexure I)
Indigenous Development of IoT-
Enabled Technology for
Monitoring, Analysis, and Developing IoT technology for monitoring, analyzing, and interpreting longwall
3
Interpretation of Longwall Shield shield pressures to enhance safety and productivity.
Pressures for Improving Safety
and Productivity
Indigenous development of Self-
contained Breathing apparatus
(Both closed and open circuit), Developing self-contained breathing apparatus (closed and open circuit), escape
4
Escape apparatus, and Reviving apparatus, and reviving apparatus for below-ground and opencast mining.
apparatus used for below-ground
and opencast mining.
Development of an indigenous
robotic technology for detecting
5 Creating a robotic technology to detect and extinguish fires in opencast mines.
firefighting in opencast mines and
extinguishing the fire
Development of a technique for
Artificial Intelligence (AI)/
Developing a technique using AI/ML and data analytics for an automated mine
6 Machine Learning (ML), data
management system.
analytics for automated mine
management system
Development of Mixed reality
(Virtual reality, Augmented reality Creating a mixed reality solution for underground and opencast mining operations
7
& Extended reality) for mining and training.
(UG & OC) operation & training
Development of miners Personal
8 Protective Equipment (PPE) using Developing personal protective equipment for miners using nanotechnology.
nanotechnology
Development of a portable
instrument for detecting bed
Creating a portable instrument to detect bed separation and minor faults/hidden
9 separation, and minor faults/
slips in the roof of coal mines.
hidden slips in the roof of coal
mines.
AI algorithms can analyze data from sensors such as seismic, acoustic, or imaging
Machine Learning for Human
10 devices to detect buried humans in opencast and underground mines by pattern
Detection:
recognition and anomaly detection.
AI can optimize low-power wireless load monitoring, gas monitoring, and
AI-Enabled Integrated Monitoring
11 tracking systems using RFID technology in underground mining by analyzing data
Systems:
patterns, predicting potential hazards, and providing real-time alerts.
AI can be utilized with IoT devices to monitor, analyze, and interpret longwall
IoT-Based Technology with AI for
12 shield pressures in real-time, identifying safety risks and optimizing productivity
Shield Pressure Monitoring:
through predictive analytics.
AI can aid in the indigenous development of self-contained breathing apparatus
AI-driven Development of
13 (SCBA), escape apparatus, and reviving apparatus for mining by optimizing
Breathing Apparatus:
design, materials, and functionality based on safety standards and historical data.
AI-powered robotic systems can be developed to detect and extinguish fires in
Robotic Technology with AI for
14 opencast mines autonomously by analyzing sensor data, identifying fire risk areas,
Fire Detection and Extinguishing:
and taking appropriate actions.
Page 12