
--- Page 1 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

 

Information

omnis. (ipl ag sTrofenltia-
LD 2024-25

 

Jirania , West Tripura - 799046 |

plrece(@nita.acin, 363s.
_nita.director@gmail.com
| aa, i
(0381)2546630

vhs ahs deb
| Owwwanita.ac.in ! | 3 Hid


--- Page 2 ---
© NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA, 2024
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

--- Page 3 ---
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION 4
1.1 PROFILE OF THE INSTITUTE AND MOUs 5
1.2 LOCATION 7
1.3 ACADEMIC FACILITIES 8
1.4 OTHER CAMPUS FACILITIES 8
1.4.1 MEDICAL CARE 8
1.4.2 BANKING AND POST OFFICE 9
1.4.3 COMMUNICATION 9
1.4.4 EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES 9
1.4.5 LIBRARY/KNOW LEDGE CENTRE 10
1.5 CENTRE FOR CAREER DEVELOPMENT
11
1.6 SCHOLARSHIP
12
1.7 AWARD/ACCOLADE
15
UG PROGRAMME
2 INTAKE CAPACITY AND ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS 19
2.1 INTAKE CAPACITY
19
2.2 RESERVATION OF SEATS
19
3 ADMISSION PROCEDURE
20
3.1 ACADEMIC ELIGIBILITY CRITERION
20
3.2 FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS
20
4 CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINE (MANUAL)
20
5 DETAILS OF ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS & HOSTELS
5.1 CHIEF WARDEN, WARDENS, ASSTT. WARDENS AND SUPERVISORS 2 2
5.2 ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS & LABORATORIES 25
5.3 HEAD OF THE ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS 46
5.4 WORKSHOP 46
5.5 DEPARTMENT – WISE LIST TO FACULTY
46
6 ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
47
7 SYLLABUS OF B.TECH 1ST YEAR
62
8 FEES STRUCTURE
64
PG PROGRAMME
1 M. TECH PROGRAMME 6 9
2 M. TECH.REGULATIONS 71
3 M.SC. PROGRAMME 88
4 MBA PROGRAMME 89
5 MCA PROGRAMME
89
6 PHD PROGRAMME
91
7 PHD REGULATION
93
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 4 ---
VISION
National Institute of Technology Agartala will transform its students through
education, innovation, creativity, research, and entrepreneurship to become
professionals and impact the nation and the society to be at the forefront of ever -
changing world.
MISSION
To impart world class education in all frontiers of science and technology.
To integrate knowledge and experiences both inside and outside of the
classroom by faculty-student interaction, experiential learning and embracing
new technology–making every opportunity into a possible learning outcome.
To train future leaders who will serve the nation, society and the world with
the highest standards of personal ethos and integrity coupled with patriotism.
To empower the nation with high quality research and propel the nation to
become the leading country in innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship.
Published by:
Dean (Academics) NIT Agartala, Tripura-799046
Phone: 0381-2548510
Fax: 0381-2546360
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 5 ---
1.Introduction
National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA) is a centrally funded institution, in the state of Tripura,
India. The Institute got upgraded from the erstwhile, state-run, Tripura Engineering College by the Union
Cabinet on 23rd February 2006. This is the 20th National Institute of Technology (NIT) in the country and
is the 2nd in the North-Eastern region. The Institute imparts quality education in the field of engineering,
management, basic science and humanities.
1.1 Profile of the Institute
The Government of India converted the Tripura Engineering College to National Institute of Technology
Agartala on 1st April 2006 vide notification No. F. 20-20/2004/TS III/ dated 10.03.2006 of the Ministry
of Human Resources Development (MHRD), Govt. of India. During the conversion, Tripura Engineering
College was offering undergraduate degrees in Civil, Mechanical, Electrical, Electronics & Communication
and Production Engineering.
After the conversion to NIT, in 2010-11, the Institute started two UG courses Electronics & Instrumentation
Engineering and Chemical Engineering. After that, during the Academic Session 2012-13, a Bio-
Engineering course at UG level was started. Apart from the UG courses, the Institute now offers a
postgraduate degree in MBA, MCA, M. Tech in 23 specializations and MSc in basic science. Besides these
academic curricula, the Institute provides an opportunity for research. The research carried out at the
departments of the Institute has produced more than 100 PhD scholars. The Institute presently has 13
departments offering UG, PG and PhD courses.
Majority of the admission to this Institute is based on an all India entrance tests and or national
counselling. The UG students are admitted to the Institute for the seats that are allocated by central seat
allocation board (CSAB) under joint seat allocation Authority (JoSAA), based on the performance of these
students, in the joint national entrance examination main (JEE Main). The Institute also invites international
students to undergo UG studies under Direct Admission of Students Abroad (DASA) scheme.
For admission to M. Tech courses, students should have a valid GATE score and should appear in the
Centralized Counseling for M. Tech./M.Arch./M.Plan (CCMT). Besides the regular intake, to promote
higher education among the employed persons, few seats are kept reserved for sponsored candidates
from academia and industry. Admission to the MCA course in the Institute is based on the performance of
the candidate in the national level entrance test NIT MCA Common Entrance Test (NIMCET). The students
for the MSc program are admitted through Centralized Counseling for M.Sc./ M.Sc. (Tech.) programmes
in NITs and CFTIs (CCMN) based on the performance in joint admission test for M.Sc. (JAM). The unfilled
seats of M. Tech/MSc are filled up locally based on a test and or interview. The regular PhD scholars are
admitted through interview after they qualify in the written test. From the academic session 2021-22,
admission to MCA programme will be held based on Institute level examination (written or viva or both)
for the vacant seats left after the admission through NIMCET.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 6 ---
The Institute makes wide publicity about the PhD admission in reputed all India as well as local
newspapers. The curricula of UG, PG and PhD courses are strictly governed by the rules and regulations
laid down for each course. The classrooms and the laboratories of the Institute are equipped with modem
facilities. The Institute provides computer labs in each department, to provide the students access to the
worldwide net to upgrade their knowledge. Besides the computer centres of the departments, there is a
central computational facility, mostly for the first year UG students. The computer science and
engineering department has a PARAM Shavak super-computer. The state-of the-art library cum
knowledge centre has over fifty thousand textbooks and online e-resources. The Centre for Career
Development (CCD) assists to arrange internship and placement for the students of the Institute. Besides
the academic curriculum, the Institute encourages its students to participate in extra-curricular activities
after the academic hours. The students actively participate in sports and techno-cultural activities.
The faculties of the Institute are highly qualified and have good expertise in their fields. The Institute has
established academic tie-ups with IIT Kharagpur, IIT Guwahati, Jadavpur University, IIEST(Formerly
BESU), NITK Surathkal, NIT Warangal apart from other renowned University / Institute of India and
abroad. There is an agreement with IIT Madras, whereby the top 10% of the B.Tech students of
engineering departments are allowed to pursue their final year at IIT Madras. After that, depending on
their performance, they may be allowed to carry out integrated PhD programs at IIT Madras. The
Institute has taken the initiative to go into a similar agreement with reputed national and international
Institutes. Industry-Institute Linkage has been revamped for catering to the needs of industrialization of
the region at large and the State in particular.
The hostels in the Institute accommodate more than 3000 boys and 500 girls. To take care of the health
of the students, the Institute has a medical unit in its campus. Doctors are present, round the clock, here.
To help the students financially, the Institute implements various scholarships of the Government of India
and various State Governments.
The Institute is administered by the Director of the Institute under the direct supervision of Board of
Governors (BoG) of the Institute headed by the Chairman. The Institute is governed as per NIT Act 2007.
The President of India, is the Visitor of the Institute. The academic policies of the Institute are
implemented by the Dean Academic Affairs after the approval by the SENATE of the Institute and
ratification by the Board of Governors (BoG). The Planning and Development of the Institute are
implemented through Dean (P&D). All the student-related affairs are looked after by the Dean (SW). The
works of Research and Consultancy are looked after by the Dean(R&C) while Dean (FW) is In-Charge of
all the faculty related works in the Institute. Chairman (AA&IR) looks after all alumni affairs and affairs of
Institutional Relations. The Registrar is responsible to the Director for proper implementation of all the
policies of the Institute.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 7 ---
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
NIT Agartala has signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with several Institutions/ organizations,
Indian and abroad, that has contributed towards betterment of the students and faculty members of the
institution. Some of the salient features of MoUs with some of the institutions/ organizations are given
below:
Date of Signing/
S. No. Name of the Organisation/ Laboratory/ Institute
Implementation
MOU between NIT Agartala and NIT Surathkal.
1. 01.11.2014
2. MOU between NIT Agartala and NIT Warangal. 20.104.2015
3. MOU between NIT Agartala and CSIR NCL Pune. 30.05.2015
4. MOU between NIT Agartala and MHUPA. 01.02.2016
5. MOU between NIT Agartala and I Build 16.11.2016
6. MOU between NIT Agartala and NEEPCO. 16.11.2016
7. MOU between NIT Agartala and ONGC. 16.11.2016
8. MOU between NIT Agartala and IIT Madras, Chennai. 27.01.2017
9. MOU between NIT Agartala and IIT Guwahati, Assam. 11.11.2017
10. MOU between NIT Agartala and SLIET. 16.02.2018
11. MOU of FPDF with NIT Agartala and IIT Madras. 06.04.2018
12. MOU between NIT Agartala and VNIT Nagpur. 20.06.2018
13. MOU between NIT Agartala and NEERI Nagpur. 09.07.2018
14. MOU between ISRO and NIT Agartala 17.09.2018
15.
MOU between IISER Kolkata and NIT Agartala 07.12.2018
16. MoU between CMTI Bangalore and NIT Agartala 29.01.2019
17. MoU between NIT Jalandhar and NIT Agartala 17.01.2019
MoU between NIT Agartala and IIT Guwahati regarding
21.03.2019
18. direct admission to PhD program at IIT Guwahati
MoU between NIT Agartala and Sonoma State University
19. 12.08.2019
(SSU), California, USA
20. Extended MOU between NIT Agartala and VNIT Nagpur. 29.12.2019
21. MOU between NIT Agartala and IIT Delhi 27.02.2020
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 8 ---
22 MOU between NITA and NIT Warangal. MOU between
18-08-2020
23 NITA and MSME. MOU between NIT Agartala and IIT 06-10-2020
Kanpur for Centre for Ganga River Basin Management
24 09-10-2020
and Studies
Extended MOU in between NIT Agartala and IIT Madras
22
07-04-2021
regarding faculty postdoc program.
Renewal of existing academic MOU with IIT Madras,
23
Chennai. 22-03-2022
MOU with National Highways and Infrastructure
24
Development Corporation. 21-10-2022
25 MOU between NITA and IIT Jodhpur
02-09-2024
MOU between NITA and National Law University
26 01-07-2024
Tripura (NLU)
for more details:https://www.nita.ac.in/UserPanel/Minutes_Others.aspx?file=MoU
1.2 Location
NIT Agartala is situated at E 339387.823 m longitude and N 265495.384 m latitude and is 43.786 meters
above the sea level. The climate in the Institute campus is moderate. The temperature varies from the
minimum of 6o C in the winter to the maximum of 350C in the summer. The area has an approximate
annual rainfall of 2200 mm. At present, the area of the campus of the Institute
is about 365 acres.
The Institute is located in the midst of serene greenery having a picturesque natural beauty. It is about 4
km away from the National Highway (NH-44) and about 20 km from Agartala, the capital city of
Tripura. Agartala is linked with the rest of the country by road via Silchar and Guwahati. It is also
connected with Guwahati by train. It has got direct Air Link with Kolkata, Delhi, Chennai, Bangalore,
Hyderabad, Guwahati, Silchar and Imphal. The nearest railway station from the Institute campus is
Jirania. The Institute campus is connected with the national highway by an all-weather metalled road.
Regular transport facilities are available from and to Agartala.
Swami Vivekananda Statue at Knowlegde Park
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 9 ---
1.2.2 Knowledge Park
The Knowledge Park is a dynamic space that integrates the Student Activity Centre, Academic Building,
and a statue of Swami Vivekananda. It serves as a hub for student engagement, academic excellence,
and inspiration, with Swami Vivekananda's statue symbolizing the pursuit of knowledge and holistic
development. This park embodies the ideals of intellectual growth, creativity, and community, fostering a
well-rounded educational experience for students.
Aerial view of Knowledge Park
1.2.3 International Guest House
The International Guest House at NIT Agartala is a distinguished facility that embodies the institute's
commitment to hospitality and excellence. Designed to accommodate guests during significant events like
conferences, seminars, and placement drives, the guest house offers a comfortable and welcoming
environment. With well-appointed rooms, modern amenities, and attentive service, it ensures that visitors
experience a warm and memorable stay. Whether hosting academic dignitaries, corporate
representatives, or other esteemed guests, the International Guest House reflects the institute's
dedication to providing a hospitable and professional atmosphere.
Aerial view of International Guest House
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 10 ---
1.3 Academic Facilities
The Institute has all basic infrastructural facilities for conducting under graduate courses satisfactorily. It
has got adequate number of well qualified and experienced faculty members and technical and
supporting staff. Apart from this the Institute has the following facilities:-
Centralized Library (Knowledge Centre),
•
• Computer Laboratory (Department-wise)
• Upgraded Laboratories with the latest equipments.
• Campus Internet (Local Area Network and Wi-Fi)
• Workshops
• ABC (Academic Bank of Credits)
Creation of ABC(Academic Bank of Credits)/APAAR(Automated
Permanent Academic Account Registry) ID for Students
As per the order of the Ministry of Education (MOE), creation of ABC/APAAR ID for all students is
mandatory. This ID will serve as a unique identifier for students, facilitating seamless tracking of their
academic progress and other educational activities. The APAAR ID acts as a link to DigiLocker, an
online repository, where students securely store essential documents like exam results. Linked to the
Academic Bank of Credits (ABC) via the APAAR ID, it receives academic credits from institutions
through the National Academic Depository. APAAR, which stands for Automated Permanent
Academic Account Registry, is a specialized identification system designed for all students in India.
This initiative is part of the 'One Nation, One Student ID' program launched by the Union government,
aligning with the new National Education Policy of 2020.
Here are the steps to create an APAAR ID for the Academic Bank of Credits (ABC):
1.Log in to DigiLocker.
2.Search for Education and select the Academic Bank of Credits service.
3.Select your university and click Generate APAAR ID.
4.Enter the OTP you receive to register and sign in to DigiLocker.
5.Select the university you studied at or are studying at, the admission year, and identity type from
the drop-down menu.
6.Enter your identity type and click Submit.
7.Fill out the form with your academic details.
8.Submit the information and agree to any required consents.
Note: It is requested for any queries or assistance, please contact [FIC of ABCID].
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 11 ---
1.4 Hostel Facilities
The Institute has both Boys’ hostel and Girls’ hostel facilities. Presently there are 5(five) Boys’ hostels
with a total intake capacity of 3000 and Girls’ hostels having intake capacity of 500. However, seats are
limited at present and once the construction of the hostel is completed all the students of the Institute will
be in a position to stay in the campus. At present, all the students coming from the states other than
Tripura are given accommodation in the hostels. Besides this, the students from remote parts of Tripura
are also accommodated in the hostels based on the availability of seats.
The hostel facilities are equipped with essential amenities to ensure a comfortable and conducive living
environment for the students. Each hostel is provided with a common room, recreational facilities, and
dining halls that serve nutritious meals. The hostels also have Wi-Fi connectivity, allowing students to
access the internet for academic and personal use.
Security is a top priority, and the hostels have round-the-clock security personnel, CCTV surveillance,
and strict entry protocols to ensure the safety of the residents. The hostel wardens and staff are
available to address any issues and provide support to the students.
The Institute is committed to providing a homely and supportive environment in the hostels, enabling
students to focus on their academic pursuits and personal growth.
Boys Hostel (Aryabhatta) Boys Hostel (RNT)
Students who propose to stay in the hostel are required to fill up a form for admission. The prescribed form
is available with the officials of the office of Chief Warden. Students selected for admission to Hostel have
to deposit necessary fees (as indicated in section 8).
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 12 ---
1.4.1 Medical Care
The Health Centre with a well equipped diagnostic Laboratory and a 24X7 pharmacy is centrally located
within the campus at National Institute of Technology Agartala. It provides dedicated Health services to
the institute community comprising of students, employees, their dependents and institute guests. It
tenders 24X7 doctor, nursing, emergency and ambulance service for its patients provided by in house
and outsourced staff. In case of emergency the patients are referred to empanelled ILS Hospital/State
Hospital
NITA Hospital
1.4.2 Banks and Post Office
The State Bank of India and Canara Bank has a branch with ATM facilities operating from the Institute
campus. Apart from this, the Punjab & Sindh Bank has also an ATM facility in the Institute premises. The
Tripura Gramin Bank runs one branch in the Institute Complex. There is Sub-Post Office in the name of
‘‘NIT Agartala’’ in the Institute campus and its PIN Code is 799046.
1.4.3 Communication
There are to and fro direct private bus services from Agartala to Institute. Besides this, daily
commuters get an adequate number of buses, jeeps, and private vehicles. These ply regularly on NH-
44, the road that links the Institute to Agartala.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 13 ---
Student Insurance Facility:
At NIT Agartala, we are committed to the well-being and health of our students. Understanding the
importance of financial security during medical emergencies, we provide a comprehensive health
insurance facility to all our students. This initiative ensures that students can focus on their academic
and personal growth without the burden of unforeseen medical expenses.
Coverage: OPD covered for each student Rs.100000/- per year reimbursement for hospitalization of
each student is upto Rs.200000/- per year.
The natures of insurance coverage are (1) Personal accident and (2) Mediclaim. Details of scope of
coverage are given next:
SCOPE OF INSURANCE COVERAGE UNDER
PERSONAL ACCIDENT POLICY
Minimum sum insured
Scope of
Sl. Period of
required per student
coverage
No coverage
per year
1. Compensation for death / 100% permanent total
Rs.
disablement or any other disability of the named 12 months
4,00,000/-
Parent / Guardian of the student due to accident.
2. Reimbursement of tuition fee, boarding and lodging
fee, development expenses and any other expenses to
Rs.
be borne by the student during remaining period 12 months
3,50,000/-
(maximum 48 months) of study from the date of
happening of event as mentioned in sl. no.1 above.
3. Compensation for death / 100% permanent total
disablement or any other disability of the student Rs.
12 months
4,00,000/-
due to accident.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 14 ---
SCOPE OF COVERAGE UNDER MEDICLAIM INSURANCE
Reimbursement of OPD treatment for suffering of any disease(s)
1
and accident.
In case of Tripura (if treatment is done in Tripura), Hospital
means any Govt. Hospital (State or Central)/ILS Hospital /any
Pvt. Nursing Home (having valid license and registration). In all 12 months Rs.
1,00,000/-
other cases, Hospital means any Govt. Hospital (state or
central) / any Pvt. Hospital (having valid license and
registration)/any Pvt. Nursing Home (having valid license and
registration) situated anywhere in India.
2 Reimbursement for hospitalization of the students due to
suffering of any disease(s) or accident
i) Room or Bed charge
ii) Surgeon, Medical Practitioner fees.
Rs.
iii) Treatment and medication cost in Hospital/Nursing home. 12 months
2,00,000/-
iv) Nursing charges.
v) Blood, oxygen. O.T charges, surgical expenses etc.
vi) To and fro ambulance charges,
vii) Any other charges
The health insurance facility at NIT Agartala and IIIT Agartala is a testament to our commitment to the
health and well-being of our students. By offering comprehensive coverage, easy access to quality
healthcare, and a supportive claims process, we aim to ensure that our students can pursue their
academic goals with confidence and peace of mind.
For more information or assistance regarding the health insurance facility, students are encouraged to
contact or visit the Student Welfare Section.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 15 ---
1.4.4 Sports facilities
NIT Agartala is proud to host the largest sports complex among all government universities in India,
including both NITs and IITs. The institute offers exceptional sports facilities, featuring two expansive
indoor stadiums where students can enjoy tennis, table tennis, basketball, badminton, and volleyball.
Outdoor enthusiasts can take advantage of a well-maintained stadium for cricket and football, along
with two dedicated cricket grounds. A swimming pool, currently under construction, will soon enhance
the campus's offerings. These world-class facilities reflect NIT Agartala's commitment to promoting a
balanced and active lifestyle, allowing students to excel both academically and athletically.
Badminton and Tennis court Basketball court
1.4.5 Extra-Curricular Activities
The students actively participate in all co-curricular activities like games and sports, techno-cultural
festival, essay competition, drama competition, rallies on various themes, NSS programmes etc.
sponsored by the State Government, Central Government and other statutory bodies and the Institute
authority. N.S.S or N.C.C. is a compulsory subject for all students of first year.
Visveswayara Auditorium
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 16 ---
1.4.6 Library (Knowledge Centre)
NITA Central library started its functioning in the year 2006 with limited resources in an old small building
(Formerly it was Tripura Engineering College managed and controlled by the Higher Education , Govt. of
Tripura) Since then it has grown in size and content to take a notable shape.
NITA Library is now in a new sophisticated building with all modern amenities for library readers.
At present the ground floor with 2282.00 sqm and the first floor with 2282.00 sqm. of the new
building is being utilized by the library. The new Library building also known as 'Knowledge Centre'
has large floor area with following sections- Acquisition, Processing (Technical), Circulation, Reserve,
Reference, Literature, Non Book, Text Book, Digital library, Reprography, Back volume Journals
(bound) and other Periodicals, Current periodicals and magazines display.
Purified water facility, lavatories, ample lit space for reading with adequate sitting capacity are
provided in both the floors for making an aesthetic appeal to the library users. The whole library is
covered with CCTV surveillance. NITA Library is also equipped with round the clock uninterrupted
power supply and network facility through broadband connection. The existing digital library is under
renovation in its new premises with 40 seating capacity. There is a separate conference room in the
library.
NITA Central Library is open access and the library collections are organized by Dewey decimal
classification system. The library is at present equipped with facilities and resources in the forms of
books, periodicals, dissertation, thesis, CD ROM, back volumes journals, e-resources etc.
At present the library holds 69629 no's of books and the metadata of the same had been prepared to
enrich the OPAC (Online Public Access Catalogue) system for searching the available resources of the
library. There is a dedicated terminal at ground floor of library for searching the OPAC
A view of central library beside CSE department
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 17 ---
(Online Public Access Catalogue) and borrowers' details. The library is equipped with RFID (Radio
Frequency Identification) system. In addition to security of library materials (tagged) this system provides
the facilities like self-check-in and check-out, identification of tagged materials. The library uses LIBMAN
software linked with central MIS system. Automated registration of membership and circulation of library
books are provided through this software. At present the library has more than 4000 members. A good
number of books are being issued to students numbering around 15500 books per year.
More than 2500 e-journals, databases through ESS and 50000+ e-books on perpetual access basis are
available to the users of NITA. At present NITA library has been provided with 14 publishers'
e-resources covering most of the fields particularly in science & technology, management by ESS
(e-ShodhSindhu consortium formed by the guidelines of MHRD, Govt. of India).
There is a reprography section in ground floor to provide the facility of photocopying the documents by
the students, faculties and research scholars with minimum photocopying charge of Re. 1 (one) per
exposure.
Library has a written and approved rules and regulations for better management and administration of
library services. The most notable matter in the library rules is that students (both UG & PG) below the
poverty line belonging to general communities together with backward communities can avail the facility
of borrowing and holding additional 2 nos. of books for permissible period.
Institute library has participated in the NDL project of MHRD, Govt. of India and the registered
members can browse through the rich contents of NDL portal. NITA Library provides 'URKUND'
Plagiarism Detection Software to facilitate its stakeholders in scholarly publications. Creation of
institutional repository using Dspace is also in progress.
Library has a plan of starting documentation works and services especially in science & Engineering.
Library will start the facility of providing the online question papers of previous years' examinations.
1.5 Centre for Career Development
Centre for Career Development (CCD) is to assist students in their career exploration and successful job
search and to successive placement. The centre provides regular guidance to the students regarding
their career ambitions. The aim and objective of the centre is to motivate student to adopt career
oriented mindset in conjunction with job orientation.
The centre facilitates convenient interface for the companies to interact with students so that it is
mutually beneficial for both the student mass and for industry and corporate sectors. Such programs
could inspire and motivate young talent towards core engineering sectors in order to meet the demands
of the corporate world staging a drive for national progress and to become diligent citizens.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 18 ---
CCD invites and welcomes different industries, organizations and experts from various engineering and
management sectors to visit the campus for interaction with the students. This facilitates them with a
sound platform to interact with our young talented and dynamic students to meet their recruitment needs.
The diverse skill acquired by the students and the extensive theoretical knowledge, they have gained
from the curriculum, definitely makes them an asset for any organization.
By gathering consistent feedback from corporate visitors, CCD draws the attention of the authority and
makes students aware regarding themselves to set their career path towards excellence. During this
pandemic situation, CCD has gone further to conduct all the recruitment drives, organizes training
sessions, workshops, webinars and internship through virtual mode. The centre always makes the
recruitment drive a comfortable process for recruiters and enriching experience for the students in the
following manner:
(cid:0) Provides placement assistance geographies and industrial needs.
(cid:0) Ensures placement drive
(cid:0) Assists national and international internship/summer training opportunities
(cid:0) Organizes training program in association with the corporate and industries.
(cid:0) Arranges special lectures by executives from industries and corporate to cater to different skills.
(cid:0) Conducts mock interview for pre-final year students.
(cid:0) Organizes value added programs such as the personality development and communication
Various companies visited during the academic year 2020-21 for the campus placement. Few of the
companies are Publicis Sapient, Paytm, Amdocs, Delhivery, Wadhwani AI, Icertis, Zopsmart, Incture,
Nokia, Capgemini, Deloitte, MAQ SOFTWARE, Oracle, LTI, JIO, Jungleworks, Alstom, Varroc, Raam
Group, Accenture, Cairn Oil, Optum, Xenon Stack, Thermax Limited, O9 Solutions, Wipro, DeltaX,
Halliburton, Truminds, Pie Infocomm, S2Tech, Oracle CGBU, Informatica, Intellect Design Arena Ltd.,
Infosys, Byju's, EvoSys, L&T Constructions, AMNS India Ltd, Arti Industries Ltd, iLogitron
Technologies, Walkover, CGI, TCS, DNJ Infotech, Dalmia, ITC, ESL Steel (Vedanta), Tata Power,
IndiaMart, NTT Data, DxSherpa/ Vyomlabs, Network Intelligence, Syngene International Ltd, ISC
Software, Lumen Technologies, Cognizant, Infoedge, PULSUS Health Tech, Virtusa, CES Ltd.,
PlanetSpark, Maruti Suzuki, Acadecraft, Tredence, Capgemini, Mphasis Ltd.,and iQuanti.
The total no of offers among the undergraduate eligible students for the academic year 2020-21 is 452
and that of MBA is 20 offers. The highest package offered is 14.5 LPA and the average package is 6.5
LPA for the academic year 2020-21.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 19 ---
1.5.1 Club Activities
At NIT Agartala, the diverse range of clubs brings together culture, technology, and non-tech fields,
fostering a vibrant and inclusive campus community. Under the guidance of the Student Body
Gymkhana, these clubs collaborate to create a dynamic environment where students can explore their
interests, showcase their talents, and engage in interdisciplinary activities. Whether it's through cultural
events, tech fests, or creative workshops, these clubs play a pivotal role in enriching the student
experience and promoting a holistic approach to personal and professional development.
We Can NCC
GDSC Malhaar
PICTURES BY PIXELS
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 20 ---
1.6 SCHOLARSHIP
Scholarship are awarded to the students at under graduate level of this Institute based on the guidelines
of State Government and Central Government subject to the fulfillment of academic and other criteria.
The scholarship that are available for the B.Tech students of this Institute showing category, income and
duration of stipend are given below:-
Procedure
Sl. Name of the
to apply for
Eligibility Criteria
No. Scholarship the
Scheme Scholarship
1. Total annual family income from all source
sunder the Scheme is Rs. 2.5 lakh
2. No Mark Bar
(SC students are eligible to apply for the same
Through
after Advt./announcement by the irrespective
National
Post Metric State Govt. in the leading newspapers of the State
Scholarship
1 Scholarship and through their respective Websites and other Portal
(SC) media outfits.(criteria-As per state norms) For System
detailed scholarship scheme and eligibility
criteria for PMS-SC, all the students are
requested to visit the following link:
http://socialjustice.nic.in/pmsscd.php
1. Total annual family income from all sources
under the Scheme is Rs. 1.5 lakh
2. No Mark Bar
(OBC students are eligible to apply for the same
Post Metric
2 Scholarship after Advt./ announcement by their state govt. in Through
(OBC) the leading newspapers of the state and through National
the irrespective web sites and other media outfits. Scholarship
(criteria-As per state norms) Portal
For detailed scholarship scheme and eligibility
System
criteria for PMS-OBC, all the students are
requested to visit the following
link:http://socialjustice.nic.in/postmatric.php
1. Total annual family income from all sources
under the Scheme is Rs. 2.5 lakh
2.No mark bar
(ST students are eligible to apply for the same after
Post Metric Advt./announcement by their respective State Through
3 Scholarship Govt. in the leading newspapers of the State and National
(ST) through the irrespective websites and other media Scholarship
out fits.(criteria-as per state norms). For detailed Portal
scholarship scheme and eligibility criteria for System
PMS-ST, all the students are requested to visit
the following
link:http://tribal.nic.in/Content/PostMatric
Scholarship PMS for ST students.aspx
1. 30% of scholarships are earmarked for girl students.
2. (Muslim, Sikh, Christian, Buddhist & Parsi)
Minority Categories meritorious students should have Through
4 Scholarship secured not less than 50% marks in the previous National
(Moma final examination. Scholarship
Scholarship) 3. Not more than 2 students from the family. Portal
4. Scholarship allocation to States/UTs on the basis of System
population of minorities.
5. The scheme is implemented through the State
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 21 ---
Name of Procedure
Sl. the to apply for
Eligibility Criteria the
No. Scholarship
Scholarship
Scheme
Govt./UT Administration.
6. Can avail scholarship from not more than one
source
7. A scholarship holder under this scheme will not
avail any other scholarship/stipend for pursuing the
course.
8. The annual income of the beneficiary/parent or
guardian of beneficiary should not exceed
9. Rs. 2.50 lakh from all sources
For More Details Please Visit:-http://nimt.ac.in/moma-
scholarship-scheme/
1. Those SC students who have secured admission in
the notified institutions according to the norms
prescribed by the respective institutions will be
eligible for the scholarship under the scheme to
the extent of the number of scholarships allocated
to the Institutes concerned.
5 Central 2. The ceiling of total annual family income from all Through
sources under the Scheme is Rs.6 lakh National
Sector
3. The scholarship will become payable immediately Scholarship
Scholarship
after a student has secured admission and has Portal
(SC) started attending the classes.
System
4. The scholarship will be terminated if the student
fails to pass the final examination of each year or
any terminal examination prescribed. He will,
however, remain eligible for the Post-Metric
Scholarship. For detailed visit the following link
http://socialjustice.nic.in/topclass.php
1. The total family income of the student from all
sources should not exceed Rs. 6 lakh per annum.
6 Central
2. Only those Scheduled Tribe students who have
Sector
secured admission in notified Institutions will be
Scholarship Through
eligible for the scholarship.
(ST) National
3. If the number of the ST students admitted in a
Scholarship
particular Institution exceeds the number of awards
Portal
allocated to that Institutions than the scholarship
System
will be restricted to that number of students who
occupied top slots in the inter-se merit list.
For detailed visit the following link:
http://tribal.nic.in/Content/TopClassEducation.asp
x
Through
For detailed scheme and eligibility criteria for UP
7 UP Scholarship
scholarship, all the students are requested to visit the Online
following link: http://scholarship.up.nic.in/ Portal of
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 22 ---
Name of Procedure
Sl. the to apply for
Eligibility Criteria
No. Scholarship the
Scheme Scholarship
Govt. of UP
Through
Post 1. No income bar 2. No Mark Bar for SC/ST
Prescribed
8 Madhyamik Students. 3. Secure 50% mark in previous Exam
Application
Scholarship for General students
Form
1. Students should have not less than 50% marks
National at higher secondary/graduation level
Through
9 Handicappe 2. A scholarship holder under this Scheme will not
d National
avail any other scholarship/stipend for pursuing
Finance the course. Scholarship
Development 3. The annual income of the beneficiary/parent Portal System
Corporation or guardian of beneficiary should not exceed Rs.
3.00 lakh from all sources.
1. The stipends and book grants are open only to a
candidate who is a permanent resident of any of the
States in the North East should be 75% for
General/OBC/MOBC and 60% for SC/ST candidates in
Through
North the relevant qualifying examination for Diploma,
10 National
Eastern Degree and Post-Graduate courses.
Scholarship
Scholarship
2 . The maximum marks for the grant of
Portal System
stipend cases.
3. Selection will be made on the basis of merit in
all For detailed visit the following link:
http://tripuraepass.cgg.gov.in/
1. Only for Electrical Engg, Chemical Engg,
Through
Mechanical Engg, Electronics Communication
ONGC Prescribed
11 Engg
Scholarship Application
2. 3rd year branch toppers.
Form
3. Scholarship duration one year only.
1. Gross Joint annual income of the family of the
student from all sources should not exceed Rs.
1,00,000/-(Rupees One Lakh only). However, in
case of the, preference will be given to the
Through
students whose family income is upto Rs. 60,000/-
Prescribed
IOCL 2. The maximum marks for the grant of stipend should be 65%
12 Application
Scholarship
for General, 60% for SC/ST/OBC/Girls and 50% for PwDs Form
candidates in the relevant qualifying examination for
Diploma, Degree and Post-Graduate courses.
For detailed visit the following link:
https://iocl.com/aboutus/scholarships.aspx
1. Secure 60% mark in previous Exam for Through
TBSC (Tripura
13 General st udent s. Prescribed
Board)
2. The ceiling of total annual family income from all Application
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 23 ---
Name of Procedure to
Sl.
the Eligibility Criteria apply for the
No. Scholarship Scholarship
Scheme
sources under the Scheme is Rs. 6 lakh. For
detailed visit the following link: form
http://tbse.in/new/scholarship.html
1. Students with domicile of NER who have passed
Class XII or equivalent exam from a school situated within NER
through any recognized Board of Education, including Central Through
Prescribed
Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), Indian Certificate of
Application
Secondary Education (ICSE), National Institute
form
of open Schooling (NIOS) within NER only, and have secured
admission in general degree course, technical and professional
Special Scholar
courses including medical and para-medical courses (Integrated
ship Scheme
14 courses included) in Universities/ Colleges Institutions recognized
For North
by UGC under Section 2(f) of UGC Act, within and outside the
Eastern Region
States of
Under UGC
NER.
2. For availing scholarship under this scheme, the
income of the parents of the student should not
exceed Rs. 4.5 lakh per annum.
For detailed visit the following link:
http://www.ugc.ac.in/ner/
NOTE: 1. It is to be noted that a student can avail only one scholarship at a time
from any one source.
2. Apart from the list above, any other scholarships are notified in the official website
of the Institute.
1.7 Award/Accolade
i. The Gold Medal awarded to the student from both the undergraduate and post graduate
studies who have been secured highest marks among all the branches.
ii. The Gold Plated Silver Medal awarded to the branch topper only.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 24 ---
16TH CONVOCATION GALLERY
16th Convocation with the Honorable Chief Minister and Distinguished Guests in Attendance
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 25 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 26 ---
2 Intake capacity and admission requirements
2.1 Intake Capacity
National Institute of Technology Agartala runs four-year Degree Courses in the following disciplines at
under graduate level. The intake capacity against each branch of engineering at B.Tech level along with
dual degree programme in science & engineering has been shown below:-
B.Tech
Intake
capacity
Intake capacity
Sl.No Course under DASA
1 Civil Engineering
118 17
2 Mechanical Engineering 125 19
3 Electrical Engineering 125 19
4 Computer Science & Engineering 150 23
5 Electronics & Communication Engineering 128 19
6 Production engineering 113 17
7 Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering 75 11
8 Chemical Engineering 75 11
9. Biotechnology & Biochemical Engineering 50 8
Total- 959 144
BS-MS (Dual degree programme in science)
Sl. No. Course Intake capacity
1 Physics 25
2 Chemistry 25
3 Mathematics & Computing 25
Total- 75
BT-MT (Dual degree programme in Engineering)
Intake
Sl. No. Course capacity
1. Engineering Physics 25
2. Computational Mathematics 25
Total- 50
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 27 ---
2 .2 Reservation of seats
Out of the total 1084 seats, 50% seats are reserved for the candidates of Tripura State. The students of
All India category are admitted against the remaining seats selected on merit basis by Joint Seat
Allocation Authority (JoSAA). Against seats under Home state quota 31% are reserved for ST
candidates and 17% for SC candidates.
For seats under Central pool the reservation policy of Government of India is followed where 15% seats
are reserved for Scheduled Caste, 7.5% for Scheduled Tribe and 27% for OBC candidates a part from
reservation for physically handicapped candidates.
3 Admission Procedure
NIT Agartala follows the schedule of JoSAA for admission to under-graduate courses.
3.1 Academic Eligibility Criteria
The academic eligibility criteria for admission in NIT Agartala is same as the criteria laid down in the Joint
Seat Allocation Authority/ Central Seat Allocation Board (JoSAA/ CSAB) information brochure/
business rules.
Eligible Candidates (as per the criteria laid down by JoSAA/CSAB) who are allotted an academic
course at NIT Agartala, have to, first, take provisional admission at the finally allotted Institute by
JoSAA/CSAB during counseling sessions. Only such candidates, who possess valid provisional
admission letter (for NIT Agartala) issued by JoSAA/ CSAB, are eligible to get provisional admission at
NIT Agartala.
3.2 Financial Requirements
Candidates have to pay the Institution fee as per the rate specified for admission in B.Tech/ Dual
Degree programme of NIT Agartala during each session.
Provisionally admitted candidates for NIT Agartala need to pay the balance fee (refer to fees in
section 8) to the Institute. Candidates who are allotted hostel by the Chief Warden will pay the
requisite fee at the Canara Bank of the Institute.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 28 ---
4.Conduct and discipline
i. The conduct of the Students within and outside the premises of the Institute shall be such as is be
fitting to the students of an institution of national importance.
ii. As per the order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, ragging in any form is banned in the
Institute. Acts of ragging will be considered as gross in discipline and will be severely dealt with.
The following acts of omission and or commission shall amount gross violation of the code of conduct
iii. and shall invoke disciplinary measures:
(a) Ragging
(b) Lack of courtesy and decorum; indecent behaviour anywhere within or outside the campus.
(c) Wilful damage or removal of any property/belongings of the Institute/Hosteller of fellow students.
(d) Possession, consumption or distribution of alcoholic drinks or any kind of hallucinogenic drugs.
(e) Mutilation or unauthorized possession of library books
(f) Noisy behaviour, disturbing of studies of fellow students.
(g) Hacking in computer systems (such as entering other person’s area without prior
permission, manipulation and/or damage of computer hardware and software etc.)
(h) Any other act of gross indiscipline.
(i) Commensurate with the gravity of the offence, the punishment may be reprimand, fine, and
expulsion from the hostel, debarring from an examination, rustication on attending classes for a
specified period or even out right expulsion from the Institute.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 29 ---
iv. For an offence committed in (a) a Hostel, (b) a Department or in a classroom, and (c) elsewhere, the
Hostel Superintendent, the Head of the Department and the Dean of Student welfare, respectively,
shall have the authority to reprimand or impose fine with the approval of appropriate authority.
v. All cases involving punishment other than reprimand shall be reported to the Chairman, Students
Disciplinary Committee.
All major acts of indiscipline, which may have serious implications on students in general, and/or which
vi.
may warrant a uniform and more formalized nature of investigation, shall be handled by the Students
Disciplinary Committee appointed by the Director.
vii. Cases of adoption of unfair means in an examination shall be reported to the Dean of
Academic Affairs for taking appropriate action.
viii. In the event of a major punishment, the student shall have the right to appeal to the Director.
ix. The Institute attaches emphasis on discipline of the students and their character building. The
students are expected to maintain discipline of a very high standard. All Rules and regulations of the
college and hostels as laid down by the authority and issued from time to time have to be followed
by each student.
x. Students are warned that any kind of activity, which may lead to fatal accident, is strictly prohibited
in the Institute campus. Guardians are advised to caution their wards regarding such matter.
xi. Possession of any kind of weapons inside the Institute campus is strictly prohibited.
xii. If any property/equipment in the campus is damaged or, any loss caused to the Institution shall be
recovered either directly from those identified students where ever possible or collectively from such
group of students or association as responsible for the activity/activities. For the benefit of the
students and staff of the college private bus service has been arranged
from Agartala to college campus and back. The students availing bus facility have to maintain
xiii.
discipline inside the buses. Such students are expected to make regular payment of bus fare in the
interest of ensuring smooth running of the buses. Guardians are requested to make payment
as per modalities to be decided by the bus committee of NIT Agartala.
Ragging in any form is banned in NIT Agartala, and any one indulging in ragging is bound to be
xiv.
punished appropriately. The punishment may include expulsion from the Institution, suspension from
the Institution or classes for a limited period or fine with a public apology. The punishment may also
take the shape of: (a) with holding of scholarships or other benefits (b) debarring from representation
in events (c) with holding of results (d) suspension or expulsion from hostel/mess based on the gravity
of offence as per decision of the Disciplinary Committee.
xv. It is necessary for all students to take clearance from appropriate authority in a prescribed form
at before admission to each semester.
xvi. The authority reserves the right to take action against the students for unsatisfactory conduct
or indulging himself/herself in any activities affecting the over-all disciplinary environment of
the Institute.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 30 ---
5 Details of Academic Department and Hostels
5.1 Chief Warden, Wardens & Assistant Wardens
Mr. R.K. Bhogendro Chief Email: chiefwardennita@gmail.com
Meitei Warden Mobile: 9436890866
Name of the Hostels Name of the Warden and Contact No Name of the Supervisors Mr. Prasanta
Dr. P Jawahar , ( 8754849740)
Email: dr.p.jawahar@gmial.com Ranjan Deb ( 9774318336)
Aryabhatta Dr Suresh Mamidi, (7306222737) Email: prasanta.deb@gmail.com,
Hostel (Boys) (Email: sureshm2k10@gmail.com)
Mr. Sujoy Dey (8787777348)
Dr. T.K Bhowmick, ( 8132061175)
Email: deysujoy.1976@gmail.com,
Email: tbhowmick@gmail.com
Dr. Goutam kumar Gupta, ( 9664133900)
Email: goutamece@nita.ac.in
Dr. P.Padmagirisan, (9566951395)
RNT Hostel, Email: padmagirisan@outlook.com Mr. Ajoy Bhowmik ( 9436481226)
Howrah Hostel Dr. Venkata Bharat Nishtala, ( 9014147433) Email: ajoybhowmik1@gmail.com,
and Gomati Email: nvbharatnnv@gmail.com
Mr. Satyajit Das ( 8132085431)
Hostel ( Boys) Dr. Prakash Kumar Sahu, ( 9435391495)
Email: pksahunita@gmail.com Email: satyajitdas277@gmail.com,
Dr. Debanjan Acharyya, ( 8981720578) Mr. Rabindra Das ( 9436557455)
Email: iammdebanjan@gmail.com
Email: rabindra037@gmai.com
Dr. Muthusivaramapandian, ( 7896172343)
Email: msrpmsiva@gmail.com
Dr. Shikha Maurya, ( 9425450673) Mrs. Mahuya Biswas (9774607090)
Email: shikha.maurya7@gmail.com
Gargi Hostel mahuya2612@gmail.com,
(Girls) Dr. Ranjita Das, ( 8787779140) Mrs. Rumita Saha ( 7308354700)
Email: ranjita.nitm@gmail.com
Email: rumita_2009@yahoo.com,
(cid:0) Students must follow the Code of Conduct available on the Institute website
https://nita.ac.in/uploaded_files/Memo_StudentsCodeOfConduct.pdf
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 31 ---
RULES AND REGULATIONS OF NITA HOSTELS
1. The hostellers should be calm, quiet and maintain peace and harmony inside the hostel.
2. The hostellers should cooperate to keep the hostel neat and clean for healthy ambience.
3. Ragging (verbal/physical/psychological) is a crime, and it is strictly prohibited on campus & off
campus. Punishment for raggers will obey the orders of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India.
Fighting among each other in a group or as an individual is a punishable offense at any circumstances.
4.
Rs. 5000 (INR) will be imposed as a penalty with immediate effect against each individual and may
attract disciplinary action.
5. Allotted room of the hostel should not be inter changed/altered at any circumstances without the
written approval of competent authority; otherwise Rs. 5000 (INR) will be imposed as penalty against
each individual for each alteration and further disciplinary action may be taken. Hostel administration
reserves the right to shift the resident from one room to another room of same hostel/another hostel at
any point of time.
6. The person al laptop without external speaker, mobile phone, power bank are only allowed to use. Use
of any other electrical appliances is strictly prohibited.
7. Cooking is not allowed inside the hostel room and Rs.5000 (INR) will be imposed as penalty for each
event against each individual.
Using any kind of motor vehicles by the hostellers is strictly prohibited in the campus premises. If
8.
caught, respective bikes will be seized till the end of academic program of owner and rider/riders.
9. Smoking/chewing tobacco/consumption of alcoholic drinks or supplying any of these items to others is
strictly prohibited in campus premises and may attract financial penalty/ expulsion from the hostel..
Any unauthorized accommodation by the hosteller for friends/visitors/relatives at hostel room is strictly
10.
prohibited and may attract financial penalty against each individual. Entry of friends/visitors/relatives
is restricted upto entrance gate of the respective hostel.
11. Photograph Pasting/Drawing/Writing on the wall of room/furniture/door/bath rooms/common area of
the hostel is strictly prohibited.
12. Do not write the name/roll number/department on the door of the room.
13. Birthday Celebration inside the hostel room/hostel corridor is strictly prohibited.
14. Hosteller is not allowed to remain absent from hostel at night time without written permission from the
respective hostel supervisor. If found, disciplinary action will be initiated against the individual.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 32 ---
15. A) Boys’ hostellers of UG courses (1st year to 4th year) and PG courses (1st Years) are not allowed to
stay outside of the hostel from 10.30PM to 5.00AM without permission.
B) Boys’ hostellers of PG courses (2nd Year) and Ph.D Program are not allowed to stay outside of the
hostel from11.30PM to 5.00AM without permission.
C) Girls’ hostellers are not allowed to stay outside of the hostel from 6.00PM to 5.30AM without
permission.
16. In exceptional cases, further approval is mandatory from hostel authority of NITA.
17. Intentional damage of any item in hostel room/floor/ corridor is liability of occupant to get it
repaired/replaced. Moreover, damage to hostel property such as doors, windows, electrical fittings,
toilet fittings, glass panes, etc., will lead to disciplinary action.
18. Misuse of water, electricity, and others facilities are liable to disciplinary action.
19. Hosteller is solely responsible for keeping valuable belongings with him/her.
20 Playing the outdoor game, which may damage hostel property, is strictly prohibited inside the hostel.
.
21. Any sort of complaint about electrical/civil/carpentry/plumbing for maintenance must be reported in
complaint register of the respective hostel.
22. Staying in the hostel is not the fundamental right, therefore the student can be asked to vacate the
hostel without assigning any reason at any time. If the student is expelled from the hostel, the fee
deposited for the hostel will not be refunded.
23. Applicable as and when amended with the approval of the competent authority.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 33 ---
5.2 ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS & LABORATORIES
OVERVIEW OF THE CIVIL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT:
The Department of Civil Engineering was
started since the inception of the Institution
1965.
Initially the Institute was affiliated to
University of Calcutta and there after re-
affiliated to Tripura University in 1987.
Presently, this department is offering M. Tech.
courses in Structural Engineering, Geotechnical
Engineering, Transportation Engineering,Water
Resources Engineering.
Environmental Engineering, Seismic Science & Engineering and Hydro Informatics Engineering. The Civil
Engineering Department of the Institute has produced many technocrats who are serving the country
successfully. The Department has 24 (twenty four) nos. regular faculty members and 08 (eight) nos
contractual faculty members. Almost all the faculty members are involved with different consultancy,
research and developmental works along with administrative activities of the Institute.
The department also offers PhD program and the main areas of research include Geotechnical
Engineering, Structural Engineering, Water Resources Engineering, Environmental Engineering,
Transportation Engineering, Hydro informatics and Seismic Science & Engineering. The department
also handles consultancy works and projects with the State & Central Government organizations. The
department has state of the art lab facilities in several laboratories.
Name of the Laboratory under
Civil Engineering Department
1. Structural Engineering Lab.
2. Geotechnical Engineering Lab.
3. Transportation Engineering Lab.
4. Water Resources Engineering Lab.
5. Environmental Engineering Lab.
6. Hydro Informatics Engineering Lab.
7. Seismic Science & Engineering related Lab.
8. Material Testing Lab.
9. Computer Lab.
10. Surveying Lab.
11. Advanced Traffic Engineering Lab.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 34 ---
ACHIEVEMENTS
: 11
GATE Qualified (Last 3 years)
: 8
Higher Studies (Last 3 years)
: 07
Ph.D Awarded
: 43
Total Ph.D enrolled
: 9 (DST,SERB, BRNS, CPRI, AICTE )
Total project completed
: 1 ( CPRI)
Ongoing Projects
Research publications (Last 5 Years) : 80+(WoS, Scopus & SCIE Indexed)
Book & Book Chapters (Last 5 Years): 2 & 10+
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 35 ---
OVERVIEW OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Introduction:
Department of Electrical Engineering is one of the enriched and primogenital branches of engineering of
the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Agartala (formerly Tripura Engineering College, Govt. of
Tripura). This Department has been fulfilling the need of the state Tripura as well as the nation by
developing technical manpower in Electrical Engineering field since its inception in 1965. In this long 65
years of journey, being a pivotal branch of the then Tripura Engineering College, this department has
witnessed many ups and downs. Still, it has produced a great number of capable electrical engineers
who in turn spread their talent around various parts of the globe thereby enhancing the image of the
Institute in general and branch in particular.
The Electrical Engineering Department started with an annual intake of 20 seats in 1965 and
consecutively increased to 40 in 1981. After conversion of the Tripura Engineering College into National
Institute of Technology (NIT) in 2006, the intake has been increased to 90 and this year (2019) annual
intake has been increased to 129.
Academic Programme:
Electrical Engineering Department has progressed noticeably with annual intake of 129 for 4 years (8
semesters) B.Tech program and annual intake of 64 for 2 years (4 semesters) M. Tech. programme. Apart
from B.Tech and M. Tech. programme, Electrical Engineering department started Ph.D program from
2008 academic session. Considering the aspiration of the students and keeping in view of employment
opportunity and prospect for research career, Department has been offering four specializations in M.
Tech programme, namely (a) Power Electronics & Drives (b) Instrumentation (c) Power System, and (d)
Integrated Energy System. Further, excellent responses are obtained for Ph.D program. Several
candidates from academic arena and industry show their interests for pursuing their Ph.D work in the
Department of Electrical Engineering and enroll their names in the program.
Sr. No. Name of the Laboratories in EE
Department
1. Basic Electrical Engineering Lab
Network Analysis Lab
2. Electrical Measurement & Measuring
Instruments Lab
Digital Electronics Lab
3.
Analog Electronics Lab
Signal and System Lab
4.
Digital Signal Processing Lab
5. Energy Conversion System Lab
6. Power System Lab
7. Microprocessor and Microcontroller Lab
8. Power Electronics Lab
9. Control System Lab
10. Industrial Instrumentation Lab
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 36 ---
11.
Principle of Communication Lab
12.
Electrical Drives Lab
13.
High Voltage Engineering Lab
14.
Electrical Simulation Laboratory
15.
Process Control and Instrumentation Lab
16.
Advanced Power System Lab
17.
Electrical Machine Design Lab
18.
Optical Engineering & Laser
Instrumentation Lab
19. Embedded Systems Lab
20. Energy Lab
21. Switch Gear & Power System Protection Lab
22. Advance Power Electronics Research Lab
23. Advance Electrical Drives Research Lab
24. Advance Power System Research Lab
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 37 ---
OVERVIEW OF THE ELECTRONICS & INSTRUMENTATION ENGINEERING
Introduction: The Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering (EIE) has been in
existence since July 2009. The undergraduate course provides a dynamic foundation to the students in
EIE with annual intake of 86 for U.G. programme (8 semesters) including 11 seats under DASA. The
Department aims to create competent Electronic and Instrumentation Engineers to serve the needs of
modern advanced technology and the nation as a whole. The Department has eight (8) qualified and
experienced faculty members and five (5) technical staff members to develop highly competing young
engineers, scientists and management professionals of International standard.
Best endeavor is always being put forward for the recruitment of qualified and competent faculty
members from all over the country to achieve all round growth at par with any other famous Institute.
The students of this branch have been placed in various reputed R&D organizations and eminent
companies in India and abroad.
Academic Programme: An intake of 86 students including The Department offers a wide range of
courses which address almost the entire arena covering Advanced Control System, Biomedical
Instrumentation, Modern era of Instrumentation, Smart sensors, Signal Processing to mention a few.
The department is supported by various well-equipped laboratories to meet the requirements of the
undergraduate students. Industry oriented two new laboratories ‘DCS & PCS’ and ‘Hydraulic &
Pneumatic’ control systems are already set up in our department.
The department currently offers the following programs:
1. Under Graduate Program (B.Tech) in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering for 4
Years
2. PhD in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
List of laboratories with Photo
Network Theory Lab
1.
Analog Electronic and Linear Integrated Circuits
2.
Lab
3.
Sensor and transducer Lab
4.
Digital Electronics Lab
5.
Data Structure and algorithm lab
6. Linear Control System Lab
7. Industrial Instrumentation Lab
8. Microprocessor and microcontroller Lab
Electrical & Electronic Instrumentation and
9.
Measurement Lab
10.
Process Control Lab
11.
Industrial Electronics Lab
12.
Communication Theory and Telemetry Lab
13.
Advanced Process Control and automation Lab
14. Digital Signal Processing Lab
15. Project Lab
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 38 ---
OVERVIEW OF THE MECHANICAL DEPARTMENT
Mechanical Engineering Department of National Institute of Technology Agartala offers a
undergraduate and postgraduate programme in Mechanical Engineering where students are
encouraged to acquire knowledge facilities with an integrated thinking about education research &
development, application and training. The students are provided knowledge to understand
thefundamental of basic sciences and humanities, inter disciplinary knowledge, innovation, creative and
problem-solving abilities, intellectual honest and professional ethics, capacity for teamwork in inter
disciplinary, national and international environment. The Department of Mechanical Engineering was
formed in 1965. The first undergraduate batch rolled out in the year 1970. Since its inception, the
department has always been recognized for excellence.
List of Laboratories of ME Department:
• Refrigeration & Air Conditioning Lab.
• Thermal Power Lab
• Mechanical Measurements Lab
• Heat Transfer Lab
• IC-Engine Lab
• Fluid Mechanics Lab
• Computational Lab-I
• FMS Lab (Flexible Manufacturing System)
• Tribology Lab
• Flow Visualization Lab
• Strength and Materials Lab
• Computational Lab-II.
• Wind tunnel Lab.
• Vibration Lab.
• Dual Chamber Physical Vapour Deposition System lab
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 39 ---
OVERVIEW OF THE ELECTRONICS & INSTRUMENTATION ENGINEERING
Introduction: The Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering (EIE) has been in
existence since July 2009. The undergraduate course provides a dynamic foundation to the students in
EIE with annual intake of 86 for U.G. programme (8 semesters) including 11 seats under DASA.
The Department aims to create competent Electronic and Instrumentation Engineers to serve the
needs of modern advanced technology and the nation as a whole. The Department has eight (8)
qualified and experienced faculty members and five (5) technical staff members to develop highly
competing young engineers, scientists and management professionals of International standard.
Best endeavor is always being put forward for the recruitment of qualified and competent faculty
members from all over the country to achieve all round growth at par with any other famous Institute.
The students of this branch have been placed in various reputed R&D organizations and eminent
companies in India and abroad
.
Academic Programme: An intake of 86 students including The Department offers a wide range of
courses which address almost the entire arena covering Advanced Control System, Biomedical
Instrumentation, Modern era of Instrumentation, Smart sensors, Signal Processing to mention a few.
The department is supported by various well-equipped laboratories to meet the requirements of the
undergraduate students. Industry oriented two new laboratories ‘DCS & PCS’ and ‘Hydraulic &
Pneumatic’ control systems are already set up in our department.
The department currently offers the following programs:
1. Under Graduate Program (B.Tech) in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering for 4 Years
2. PhD in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
List of laboratories with Photo
1. Network Theory Lab
2. Analog Electronic and Linear Integrated Circuits Lab
Sensor and transducer Lab
3.
Digital Electronics Lab
4.
Data Structure and algorithm lab
5.
Linear Control System Lab
6.
Industrial Instrumentation Lab
7.
Microprocessor and microcontroller Lab
8.
Electrical & Electronic Instrumentation and
9.
Measurement Lab
10.
Process Control Lab
11.
Industrial Electronics Lab
12. Communication Theory and Telemetry Lab
13. Advanced Process Control and automation Lab
14. Digital Signal Processing Lab
15. Project Lab
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 40 ---
THE COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
AN OVERVIEW
PROFILE
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering of National Institute of Technology Agartala
offers an undergraduate and postgraduate programme in Computer Science and Engineeringwhere
students are encouraged to acquire knowledge facilities with an integrated thinking about practical
education research & development, application and training. The students are provided knowledge
to understand the fundamental of basic sciences and humanities , inter disciplinary knowledge, true
innovation , creative problem solving abilities , intellectual honest and professional ethics, capacity
for team work in inter disciplinary, national and international environment. The first undergraduate
batch rolled out in the year 2003. Since its inception in 1999 , the department has always been truly
recognized for excellence.
PROGRAMMES
This Institute offers courses of study and facilities for research leading to B.Tech, M. Tech, MCA
and Ph.D under Computer Science & Engineering.
The department currently offers the following programmes:-
UNDER GRADUATE PROGRAMMES:
B. Tech in Computer Science & Engineering (4 years).
POST-GRADUATE PROGRAMMES:
M. Tech in Artificial Intelligence (2 years)
M. Tech in Data Science & Engineering (2 years)
M. Tech in Cyber Security (2 years)
Master of Computer Application (3 years)
PH.D PROGRAMMES:
Ph.D in Computer Science and Engineering
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 41 ---
LIST OF LABORATORIES
Central Computing Laboratory
Software Engineering Laboratory
InformationSecurity Laboratory
Artificial Intelligence and Human Computer
Interaction Laboratory
ComputerProgramming Laboratory
Multimedia and Web Technology Laboratory
Data Analytics Laboratory
Relational Database Management System Laboratory
System Programming Laboratory
Digital Electronics and Microprocessor Laboratory
Data Communication and Computer Network
Laboratory
Project Laboratory
A BRIEF OF MCA PROGRAMME (UNDER CSE DEPARTMENT)
Master of Computer Applications or (MCA) is a three year long professional post-graduate programme
offered by CSE Department for candidates to shape themselves deeper into the world of technological
development with the help of learning application oriented side of Computer Science. The programme
is amalgamation of both theoretical and practical knowledge. Candidates who want to take admission
to this course via NIMCET (NIT MCA Common Entrance Test (NIMCET). Total credit for MCA is 140.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 42 ---
ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
AN OVERVIEW
PROFILE
The Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering (E.C.E) was established in 2007 and since
then, the department is growing in multidimensional directions in context to UG & PG teaching aspects.
The department is running academic programs like B.Tech, M. Tech , Ph.D as well as several research
and development projects funded by MeitY Govt. of India, AICTE , TEQIP etc. The department offers
a wide range of courses aiming to address almost the entire arena covering VLSI, Nano-electronics,
Modern era of Easy Communication, Fabrication and Characterization of Nano Scaled Devices, Image
Processing, Advance Microwave Electronics, Bio-Signal Processing and Non-Linear System Science to
mention a few. The laboratories of the department are facilitated with state- of- the- art technological
equipments to enable the students match up with the evolving technology. The principal thrust areas
of research of the department are VLSI and Nano-Technology, Nano-Electronics, Microwave, Image
Processing, Optoelectronics, Control Engineering and Communication Systems. Considering all the said
aspects, the department possesses a qualified and experienced team of faculty members to carry out
its legacy. From the inception of this department till the present day, students of the department have
a truly remarkable placement record in various reputed R&D organizations and eminent companies all
from India and from abroad. The department aims to build, create and craft competent Electronics
and Communication Engineers to serve the needs of modern advanced technologies and the nation as
a whole.
PROGRAMMES
The Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering currently offers the following
programs:-
UNDER GRADUATE PROGRAMMES:
B.Tech in Electronics & Communication Engineering (4 Years)
POST-GRADUATE PROGRAMMES:
M.Tech (2 years) in two specializations-
VLSI Design
Communication Systems & Signal Processing.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 43 ---
PH.D PROGRAMMES:
The department also offers PhD courses and to name a few are:
Nano-electronics
Microwave
VLSI
Image Processing
Bio-Signal Processing
LIST OF LABORATORIES WITH PHOTO
Basic Electronics Lab
Control Systems Lab
Communication Systems lab
VLSI Lab
Computer Lab
Microwave Engineering Lab
Material Synthesis and Device Characteristics lab
Optical Fiber Communication Lab
Digital Signal Processing (DSP) Lab
Embedded Systems lab
Analog Electronics & IC Lab
Microprocessor Lab
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 44 ---
BASIC ELECTRONICS LABORATORY NANOELECTRONICS LABORATORY NANOELECTRONICS INSTRUMENTS
MSDC LABORATORY INSTRUMENTS IN ELECTRONIC INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT LAB.
MICROWAVE LABORATORY
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 45 ---
PRODUCTION ENGINEERING
AN OVERVIEW
PROFILE
Production Engineering Department was established in the year of 2005 while it was Tripura
Engineering College (Presently National Institute of Technology) and is approved by AICTE. Presently
department is offering Bachelor of Technology in Production Engineering and M. Tech in Computer
Integrated Manufacturing and as well as Doctoral Program where students are encouraged to
acquire knowledge facilities with an integrated thinking about education research & development,
production and training. The students are provided knowledge to understand the fundamental of basic
sciences and humanities, inter disciplinary knowledge, innovation, creative and problem-solving
abilities, intellectual honest and professional ethics, capacity for team work in inter disciplinary,
national and international environment. It also helps the students to understand society, culture and
global processes. The department helps to induce entrepreneurship interest in students. Also, to align
and educate our students from Production Engineering Department to improve their fundamental
knowledge to bring innovative technology and to build products either by themselves or by working
with various industries to boost economic condition of our county and also North-East part of India.
The department has twelve numbers of faculty members. All faculties are deeply involved in
academic, research and administrative responsibilities of the Institute.
LIST OF LABORATORIES WITH PHOTO
Metallographic lab,
Non-Traditional Machining lab,
CNC automation & Robotics lab,
Ergonomics & Condition Monitoring lab,
CAD/CAM lab
Metal Forming and Metal Casting lab,
Mechanics of Machine laboratory lab,
Strength of Material lab,
Mechatronics lab and Quality Engineering lab.
Newly Developed laboratories like Fluid
Mechanics lab and Machine Tool lab
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 46 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 47 ---
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
AN OVERVIEW
PROFILE
The Chemical Engineering is a branch of engineering that deals with study of design and operation in
use in the chemical industries and works on the method of improving the productivity of the chemical
production process.
The Department of Chemical Engineering at National Institute of Technology Agartala started the
journey in the academic year of 2009-10 offering B.Tech in Chemical Engineering. Subsequently, the
department started offering Ph.D. in Engineering in Engineering from July, 2012 and M. Tech in
Chemical Engineering from July 2013. The department has well defined UG (B.Tech in Chemical
Engineering) and PG (M. Tech in Chemical Engineering programs. The programs are designed to
provide best educational experience to the students and encourage the students to attain their career
goals.
The mission of the Department is to impart high quality technical education and advance chemical
engineering research in desired field, thereby produce globally competent chemical engineers
capable to provide industrial solution and decisive management. The department presently has team
of vibrant, experienced and talented faculty members to provide effective education and updated
knowledge, and mentor the students through the academic journey.
Other than teaching, the faculty members are actively engaged in research in various dimensions of
chemical engineering which include Biofuels, Renewable energy, Environmental Engineering, Waste
treatment, Catalysis and reaction engineering, Material Science, Polymers, Nanotechnology, Fluid
dynamics and numerical simulations and many other emerging and pressing areas of chemical
engineering. With the purpose of providing excellent learning and research experience the
department has developed elaborate laboratory facilities.
The undergraduate laboratories are meant to demonstrate and practice the principles learnt in the
theories. There are around 10 well developed undergraduate laboratories to explain the fundamentals
of all major chemical engineering cores.
There are also well developed analytical laboratories with sophisticated instruments for practicing
world class research. The students and faculty members have published outstanding research
publication including international journals, edited book and book chapters, national and international
patents.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 48 ---
The students and faculty members of the department have presented the research in reputed national
and international conferences. The department and the faculties of the department has received good
funding/research grant from various funding agencies to support the research.
The students of the department have received fellowships for research internship in India and abroad.
The students registering for placement are successful in securing placements in reputed companies.
The graduated students of the department have joined higher studies in reputed institutions in India
and abroad.
The further information on the department can be viewed online at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Of3YSgA7Xro
LIST OF LABORATORIES WITH PHOTO
UG – B.TECH
Machine Drawing Laboratory
Fluid Mechanics Laboratory
Numerical Analysis Laboratory
Mechanical Operation Laboratory
Heat Transfer Laboratory
Energy Sources & Utilization Laboratory
Reaction Engineering Laboratory
Mass Transfer Laboratory
Process Equipment Design & Drawing - I
Process Equipment Design & Drawing - II
Process Control and Instrumentation Laboratory
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 49 ---
PG – M. TECH – CHEMICAL ENGINEERING AND PH.D IN ENGINEERING
Computer Aided Numerical Laboratory
Analytical InstrumentLaboratory
Computer Aided Process Equipment Design Laboratory
M.Tech Laboratory
ACHIEVEMENTS
Last year 02 no(s) of student qualified in the Gate Examination. 37 out of 47(06 declared) students got
placed in different reputed Companies as well as PSUs like (Reliance, Vedanta, Deloitte, ITC etc.
Our Departmental Faculty members has published 24 papers in several prominence Journals, also
published 17 book chapters, and successfully organized one FDP program, one patent was also
awarded in the previous academic year.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 50 ---
BIO ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
AN OVERVIEW
PROFILE
Department of Bio Engineering in NIT Agartala has been established in 2012 with sanctioned intake
capacity of thirty (30) students in Undergraduate batch level i.e. 4 years of Bachelor of Technology
(B. Tech Degree) in Bio Engineering. Presently, Dr. Tarun Kanti Bandyopadhyay (Head, Department of
Chemical Engineering and Bio Engineering) is supervising all the activities to ensure the progress of
this department. The academic staff of this department has varied background in the engineering life
sciences. This is a true reflection of the multidisciplinary and integrative approach in Bio Engineering
department of research and education.
PROGRAMMES
The department currently offers the following programs:-
UNDER GRADUATE PROGRAMMES:
B. Tech Biotechnology & Biochemical Engineering (4 year course from 2019)
POST-GRADUATE PROGRAMMES:
M. Tech Biotechnology and Biochemical Engineering (2 year course from 2019)
PH.D PROGRAMMES:
PhD in Bioengineering (from 2018)
The UG and PG course includes Molecular Biology, Biosensors, Bio-Fluid Mechanics, Bioinformatics and
Computational Biology, Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine, Therapeutic Delivery Systems,
Biomedical Imaging and Instrumentation, Drug Design and Development, Nano-Biotechnology, next to
Bioprocess Engineering, Metabolic Engineering, Biomechanics, etc.The programs provide a very strong
fundamental knowledge and practical based learning methodology in engineering and life sciences, its
approach is integrative and students are exposed to different applications as well. This course offers a
huge scope to the next generation students for their better career in India and abroad as well. All are
welcome to our department and being strongly encouraged to be acquainted with the greater details
of the opportunities available in this new horizon.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 51 ---
ACHIEVEMENTS
GATE Qualified : 7 (4 - Final year & 3 - Third year)
Total Ph.D enrolled : 16 (3 – JRF Project & 10 – Institute research Scholar)
Ph.D Awarded : 01
Total project completed & Cost : 4 (SERB, ICMR, and DBT-Twinning) &. 1.5 Cr
Ongoing Projects : 4 (DST, SERB, MoEs & DRDO) & 4 Cr
Higher StudIes : 3 (National) & NIL (International)
Placement : 9
Research publications : 200+ (WoS, Scopus & SCIE Indexed)
Patent granted : 1
Book & Book Chapters : 2 & 15
INFRASTRUCTURES:
The course curriculum of B. Tech & M.Tech
B.Tech ( 11 Labs) M.Tech ( 4 Labs)
Bio chemistry Lab Bioanalytical Techniques Lab
Microbiology Lab Applied Bioinformatics Lab
Biochemical Reaction Engg. Lab Biotechnology & Biochemical
Recombinant DNA TechLab Engineering Lab
Mass Transfer Lab Bioprocess and Bioseparation Lab
Fluid Mechanics
Bioprocess Engg.
Bioinformatics & Computational
Biology Lab
Heat Transfer Lab
Downstream Processing Lab
Immunotechnology Lab
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 52 ---
LIST OF EQUIPMENTS:
Optical Inverted Microscope
Optical Upright Microscope
PC Controlled Double Beam UV-VIS Spectrophotometer
ELISA Plate Reader
Thermal Cycler (PCR)
Western Blot
Departmental Computational Facilities
Bench top Fermenter with accessories
Cell culture Facilities (CO2 Incubator)
Cooling Water Bath
Horizontal DNA Gel Electrophoresis with Power pack
Facilities for Recombinant DNA Technology
Homogenizer Motor
Laminar Air Flow Chamber
Autoclave (30ltr)
Bench-top Incubator Shaker
-80°C Freezer
Weighing Balance
Liquid Nitrogen Tank
Protein Gel Vertical Electrophoresis System
BOD Shaking Incubator
Photobioreactor
Refrigerated Table-top Centrifuge
Distillation Unit
Laminar Air Flow
Water Purification System
Shaker Cum Incubator with illumination
Gel Rocker
Hot Air oven
Drying Oven
Oil free Vacuum Pump
Hot Water Bath
Basic pH Meter
Fast Performance liquid Chromatography (FPLC)
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 53 ---
MATHEMATICS DEPARTMENT
AN OVERVIEW
PROFILE
The Department of Mathematics, National Institute of Technology Agartala has the legacy of serving
the State of Tripura since 1965 under Tripura Engineering College (TEC). TEC was upgraded to National
Institute of Technology Agartala in 2006.
Since then the Department is functioning as a full flagged Department offering UG, Dual and PG
courses of the Department itself, apart from catering the needs of the other Departments in respect of
taking subjects Engineering Mathematics, Numerical Methods, Operation Research, Statistical Method
etc. Department of Mathematics is now one of the premiere Departments of NIT Agartala offering UG,
Dual and PG (BSMS in Mathematics & Computing, BTMT in Computational Mathematics and M.Sc. in
Mathematics and Computing) level courses and collaborative as well as multidisciplinary Ph.D.
programs.
PROGRAMMES
For imparting quality education, PG, Dual and UG level courses (M.Sc. in Mathematics and Computing,
BSMS in Mathematics & Computing and BTMT in Computational Mathematics) are taught in the
Mathematics Department. Admission in the two years (4 Semester) M.Sc. Degree and five years (10
Semesters) BSMS and BTMT Courses are made through CCMN and JEE Mains with an initial intake
capacity of 13, 25 and 25 students respectively.
Both of these M.Sc. and Dual Degree Programs encourage and persuade the students to grasp in
depth knowledge and also widen their career opportunities. Also the Department offers Ph.D. Degree
in Mathematics. Presently, twenty two (22) research scholars (both regular and part time) are pursuing
Ph.D. under the Department of Mathematics.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 54 ---
FACULTY AND THEIR ACTIVITIES:
The Department has highly qualified faculty members consisting of five (05) Professors, one (01)
Assistant Professor (Regular) and nine (09) Assistant Professors (Contractual). In their pursuit of
research, the faculty members are doing an extensive study in vast and diverse fields relating to
Topology, Generalized fuzzy topological space, Inventory management (Operations Research), Bi-
topology, MCDM, Fuzzy Control System, Fuzzy Optimization, Portfolio Optimization, Computational
Fluid dynamics, Graph Theory, Quantum Computing, Inventory Control, Bio-Mathematics, ODE & PDE
Super-symmetric Quantum Mechanics, Water wave mechanics, Heat transfer, Convection, Numerical
methods, Wireless Network, Image Processing, Deep Learning etc.
Departmental faculty members organize both National and International Conferences, Workshops,
Training Programs etc. every year. Moreover, they participate in International Conferences organized
in Foreign Universities and Colleges. They are also engaged in various administrative activities. They
collaborate with the faculty members of both Indian and Foreign Universities for research purpose.
PHOTOGRAPHS
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 55 ---
ACHIEVEMENTS:
NET/SLET/GATE Qualified : 25
Total Ph.D. Completed : 32
Total project Completed : 10 (DST-FIST/STUTI, CSIR,
AICTE, BRNS) :
Ongoing Projects : 04 (NBHM, SERB )
Campus Placement : 07
Research publications : 470+ (WoS, Scopus &
SCI/SCIE Indexed) :
Patent granted : 02
International/National Conference Organized : 10
National Workshop Organized : 05
National Webinar Organized : 05
FDP Organized : 03
One Week Training Program Organized : 02
One Week Awareness Program Organized : 07
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 56 ---
PHYSICS DEPARTMENT
AN OVERVIEW
PROFILE
From the inception of the Institute, the mandate of the Physics Department has been the conduction of
teaching courses for students of Science and Engineering disciplines as well as to conduct
interdisciplinary studies. Over the years the department has evolved into State’s and region’s premier
Physics teaching institution with sufficient infrastructure to run various undergraduate and
postgraduate courses. Presently, the department runs a 5-year dual BS-MS course and 2-year M.Sc.
course in Physics along with the flagship program of 5-year dual BT-MT course in Engineering Physics.
In addition the department teaches a two semester long Engineering Physics course for B.Tech
students of all Engineering branches. All of these courses are aimed to encourage Science and
Engineering students to acquire knowledge along with integrated thinking about education and high
level research in Physics.
The faculty members are engaged in rendering the Science and Engineering undergraduate students
with the fundamental knowledge of Physics and problem solving skills, requisite for a bright career,
and striving tirelessly to improve the education further.
The course structure of the four semester Master’s Degree program (M.Sc.) in Physics has been
designed with the specializations in Condensed Matter Physics, Physics of Plasmas, Thin Film and
Nanotechnology, and Gravitation and Cosmology etc to blend all best in these areas of contemporary
and applied Physics to create the post-graduates who are equally comfortable with science and
technology. The department currently has a student capacity of 125 (25 seats x 5 year) students in
each of Five year Dual degree BS-MS and BT-MT programs, 26 (13 seats x 2 year) students in M.Sc.
Program, more than 1000 students in first year B.Tech program, and 11 Ph.D. scholars. The department
is well equipped with laboratory facilities required to facilitate the need of undergraduate, post
graduate students and the research activities. The department has a faculty strength of 10 from all
quarters of Physics.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 57 ---
ACHIEVEMENTS
ACADEMICS:
Till now more than 20 students cleared GATE examination, 15 students cleared NET examination and 31
Ph.D degrees have been awardedfrom the Physics department.
RESEARCH:
Publications No 380
Project 10
Patent 06
Book/Book chapter 12
PLACEMENT & HIGHER STUDIES:
Till now a large number of students have gone for higher studies at premier national (different IITs
and research institutes) and international institutes ( Canada, Japan, USA, Sweden, Italy,
Switzerland, Germany, France) and several got placement through campus placement and off
campus placement.
NATIONAL/INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION:
Departmental H index (44) is highest in the institute according to IRINS profile.
Dr. Biswajit Saha, faculty of Physics department has beeen enlisted as the top 2% scientist of the
world consecutively for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023 according to Stanford University rankings.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 58 ---
LIST OF LABORATORIES WITH PHOTOS:
B.Tech 1st Year Physics Lab
General Physics Lab I
General Physics Lab II
General Physics Lab III
Advanced Physics Lab (Optics Lab)
Advanced Electronics Laboratory
Liquid Crystals Laboratory
Semiconductor Device Laboratory
Optoelectronics Laboratory
Transport & Magnetism Laboratory
Low Dimension Semiconductor Physics Laboratory.
Ionized Matter Physics Lab
DST FIST Project Laboratory
Common Research Laboratory
Chemical Laboratory
Fig. First Year Physics Lab and General Physics Lab
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 59 ---
Polarizing Optical Microscope LCR Meter
Radio Frequency Plasma System U V - V i s S pectroscopy
High Precision I-V Meter Impedance Analyzer Lock - in - Amplifier
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 60 ---
CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT
AN OVERVIEW
PROFILE
The Department of Chemistry has been dedicated to teaching students of disciplines in science and
engineering and conducting interdisciplinary studies since the founding of the Institute. Over the
years, the department has grown into the preeminent Engineering Chemistry teaching institution in the
state and area, with adequate facilities to provide a variety of undergraduate and postgraduate
programmes. Currently, the department offers 2-year M.Sc. Programme, 5-year BS-MS dual degree
programme along with PhD in Chemistry. Furthermore, the department offers a two-semester
Engineering Chemistry course to B.Tech students from all engineering disciplines. Our goal is to
present the content of chemistry set in a current and relevant context for engineers.
All of these courses are designed to help science and engineering students to gain information while
thinking critically about education and advanced research in Chemistry.
The Department has 13 faculty members who are actively engaged in research including natural
product chemistry, organic synthesis, organometallic chemistry, coordination chemistry, green
chemistry, bioinorganic, nanotechnology, theoretical & computational chemistry. Our faculty also
serve as journal editors, reviewers and are involved in outreach initiatives in the community. The
course curriculum and syllabus of all the courses were prepared and modified with research-based
knowledge and methods including designing the chemical reactions, synthesis, analysis as well as
interpretation of data to provide valid conclusions following the NBA pattern with the help of
Professors from IITs, IISc, NITs and other reputed institutions of our country. Our undergraduate
program offers an innovative curriculum that provides students with a variety of career paths
including chemical industry, academia, medicine, education, government, as well as other fields. Our
graduate program provides opportunities to students in a wide array of chemical disciplines including
analytical, biological, environmental, inorganic, organic, materials, physical, and theoretical chemistry.
Graduate students have the freedom to personalize their courses and research projects.
The Department has successfully completed sponsored projects of around 2.5 crores from various
funding agencies viz., AICTE, DST, CSIR, DAE-BRNS, Mumbai, CPRI Bangalore, etc. During the last
five years, a large number of postgraduate students have qualified NET and GATE examinations.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 61 ---
The Department has smart classrooms, conference room, well-equipped B.Tech laboratories, special
laboratories for Physical, Inorganic and Organic chemistry courses, research laboratory, theoretical
modeling laboratory as well as Instrumentation laboratory with high-end instruments for quality
research works.
PROGRAMMES
The department currently offers the following programs:-
UNDER GRADUATE PROGRAMMES:
(Engineering Chemistry I and II and Engineering Chemistry Laboratory)
BS-MS dual degree in Chemistry (5 year course from 2013)
POST-GRADUATE PROGRAMMES:
M.Sc In Chemistry ( 2 Years course from 2010)
PH.D PROGRAMMES:
PhD in Chemistry (from 2010)
LIST OF LABORATORIES WITH PHOTO
(a) B. Tech Laboratories
(b) M.Sc. and BS-MS laboratories:
Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory
Physical Chemistry Laboratory
Organic Chemistry Laboratory
Research Laboratory
Molecular modeling laboratory
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 62 ---
Inorganic Chemistry laboratory Organic Chemistry laboratory Physical Chemistry laboratory
Molecular Modelling laboratory Research laboratory Conference Hall
LIST OF EQUIPMENTS
UV-Vis Spectrophotometer
Differential Scanning Calorimeter (DSC)
Fluoroscence spectrophotometer
FTIR Spectrophotometer
Dynamic light scattering particle size analyzer
(DLSanalyzer)
Hot Air Oven
Solar PV Device system
Ball miller
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 63 ---
UV-Vis Spectrophotometer Differential Scanning Calorimeter
Fluoroscence Spectrophotometer FTIR Spectrophotometer
DLS Analyser Hot Air Oven
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 64 ---
Ball Miller Solar PV Device System
ACHIEVEMENTS:
GATE Qualified (Last 3 years) : 11
Higher Studies (Last 3 years) : 8
Ph.D Awarded : 13
Total Ph.D enrolled : 19
Total project completed : 9 (DST,SERB, BRNS, CPRI, AICTE )
Ongoing Projects : 1 ( CPRI)
Research publications (Last 5 Years) : 80+(WoS, Scopus & SCIE Indexed)
Book & Book Chapters (Last 5 Years) : 2 & 10+
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 65 ---
MANAGEMENT, HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCES
DEPARTMENT
AN OVERVIEW
PROFILE
The Department of Humanities & Social Sciences has been co-existing with NIT Agartala since the birth
of NIT Agartala i,e when the erstwhile Tripura Engineering College was converted to National Institute
of Technology Agartala on 01.04.2006.
The Department was established with an objective of making an engineer enlightened with adequate
knowledge of his/her surroundings.
The Department is engaged in teaching English and Economics to B.Tech Engineering students. The
approach of the Department has always been interdisciplinary. The Department offers undergraduate
courses in Economics, Costings, Management Principles and Communicative Skill Development. Besides
that, it encourages the students to actively take up research in various fields of Humanities and Social
Sciences. The Ph.D. programme of the Department is introduced to serve that very purpose. The School
of Management started its operation since July 2012.
It has been established to meet the growing aspirants of Techno Managers in the country specially to
meet the demand of North Eastern Region of the country. The School of Management is offering course
Masters of Business Administration (Full Time) Programme and Ph.D. (Full Time/Part Time) in the field of
management.
The Department has upgraded into Department of Management, Humanities & Social Sciences with the
effect from the academic session year 2019-2020. The Department of Management, Humanities & Social
Sciences was established with an objective of making an engineer enlightened with adequate amount of
knowledge of his/her surroundings.
The approach of the Department is interdisciplinary.
The Department offers undergraduate courses to B.Tech students in Economics, Costing, Management
Principles, Management, Business Communication and Communicative Skill Development and full time
graduate programme in Management. Besides that, it encourages the students to actively take part up
research in various fields of Humanities, Social Sciences and Management.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 66 ---
The Ph.D programme of the Department in Economics, Literature and Management has introduced to
serve that very purpose. Along with these diverse academic departments, the Department is home to
a wide variety of interdisciplinary collaborations, path-breaking research projects, and unique areas
of study.
The ultimate objective of any education system is to produce human capital who will be responsible
citizen, besides excelling in his/her own domain.
LIST OF LABORATORIES WITH PHOTO
LANGUAGE LABORATORY
The Department of Management, Humanities & Social Sciences has a language communication skills
and multimedia lab which is developed in collaboration with CACM, IIT Kharagpur. The lab which
functions on a carefully designed software ISILS WIRELESS that interconnects all the students in the
classroom with an integrated and active mode of learning, facilitating spontaneous interaction among
the students themselves along with the instructor.
The lab offers beyond the traditional lecture- based mode of learning and aims at fully rendering an
interactive classroom atmosphere with technological support to help students come to terms with the
anxiety of second language learning and channelize their latent linguistic competence into developing
communication skills.
COMPUTER LABORATORY
The Department of Management , Humanities and Social Sciences (MHSS) also has a well-equipped
Computer Laboratory. In this Lab, students perform practical works in various subjects like IT and
Business Skills, Finance, marketing and so on. Students also perform research work in this computer
lab. The Lab is also equipped with a web camera and internet facility for interview purposes.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 67 ---
DEPARTMENTAL ACHIEVEMENTS AND STUDENT DETAILS
No. of Paper published 12
Books/ Chapters 16
International Conference Organized 03
National Workshop Organized 03
National/International Conference Paper Presented 15
Patents/ Copy rights/ Trademarks. 00
Visits by an eminent person (s) 02
Ph.D. awarded 15
Placement data (MBA) 100%
No. of PG students 62
No. of Ph.D Scholars 15
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 68 ---
5.3 HEAD OF ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS
SL.
DEPARTMENT NAME
NO.
1. Bio Engineering Dr. Tarun Kanti Bandhyopadhyay
2. Chemical Engineering Dr. Soma Nag
3. Civil Engineering Prof. Deb Dulal Tripura
4. Computer Science & Engineering Prof. Mrinal Kanti Debbarma
5. Electrical Engineering Prof. Arvind Kumar Jain
6. Electronics & Communication Engineering Dr. Atanu Choudhury
7. Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering Dr. Jayanta Kumar Rakshit
8. Mechanical Engineering Prof. Rajsekhar Panua
Prof. Rabindra Narayan
9. Production Engineering
Mahapatra
10. Chemistry Prof. Mitali Saha
11. Mathematics Prof. Apu Kumar Saha
12. Physics Prof. Aparna Nath
13. Management, Humanities & Social Sciences Dr. Gyanabati Khuraijam
5.4 WORKSHOP & FIRST YEAR COORDINATOR
DEPARTMENT DESIGNATION NAME
Workshop Chairman (Workshop) Dr. Barnik Saha Roy
B.Tech First Year Coordinator Dr. Sadhan Gope
Production
Assistant Professor Dr. N Biswas
Engineering
5.5 DEPARTMENT-WISE LIST OF FACULTY
The list of faculty members under each Academic Departments are available on the
Institute website: https://nita.ac.in/
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 69 ---
6.0 ACADEMIC REGULATIONS
ORDINANCE
1.1 The provisions of these regulations shall be applicable to all B.Tech. Programmes offered by the
Institute.
1.2 All the regulations noted below shall be applicable to any new B.Tech. Programme or any other
similar programme that may be introduced in future.
1.3 A student becomes eligible for the award of the B.Tech. Degree after fulfilling all the academic
and non-academic requirements prescribed the SENATE of the Institute.
1.4 Notwithstanding all that has been stated in the regulations, the SENATE has the right to
modify/relax any of the regulations from time to time.
REGULATIONS FOR THE BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMME
1.0 Academic Calendar
1.1 Each academic session is divided into two semesters of approximately of 18 weeks duration: an odd
semester (July-December) and an even semester (January-June).
1.2 Classes of all the semesters will start at 9.00 am and end at 5.00 pm with break in between.The
Institute follows 5-day week.
1.3 The SENATE approves schedule of academic activities for a session inclusive of dates of
registration, mid-semester and end-semester examinations, inter-semester breaks etc. All these shall
be laid down in the Academic Calendar for the session.
2.0 Admission
2.1 Admission to NIT Agartala is made in accordance with the instructions received from the
Ministry of Education (MoE), formerly the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD),
Government of India from time to time. Seats are reserved for candidates belonging to scheduled
castes and scheduled tribes, physically challenged candidates and other backward communities as
per the guidelines issued from Ministry of Education (MoE).
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 70 ---
22.2 Admission to all courses is made in the odd semester of each session at the first year level
through Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) Ministry of
Education, Govt of India.
2.3 A limited number of admissions are offered to Foreign Nationals and Indians living abroad in
accordance with the rules applicable for such admission to be issued from time to time by the MoE
under the scheme Direct Admission of Students Abroad (DASA).
2.4 If, at any time after admission, it is found that a candidate has not fulfilled all the requirements
stipulated in the offer of admission, the Dean of Academic Affairs may revoke the admission of the
candidate and report the matter to the SENATE.
2.5 The Institute reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student and ask him/her to
discontinue his/her studies at any stage of his/her career on the grounds of unsatisfactory academic
performance or in-disciplined conduct.
3.0 Residence
3.1 All students shall be required to reside in and be members of the hostels to which they are
assigned at the time of registration. However, Hostel allotment is subject to availability.
3.2 Under special circumstances, the Director/Dean of Academic Affairs may permit a student to
reside with his/her Parent/Guardian in the Institute Campus or within a reasonable distance from the
Institute. Such a student shall however be attached to a hostel and will be required to pay seat rent
according to rules and Hostel establishment charges fixed by the Institute. However, this permission
may be withdrawn at the discretion of the Institute, at any time considered appropriate by the
Director/Dean (Academic), without assigning any reason.
3.3 No married student at the under-graduate level is provided accommodation in the hostel.
3.4 All students must abide by the rules and regulations of the hostel as may be framed from time to
time by the Board of Hostel Management with the approval of SENATE.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 71 ---
4.0 Attendance
4.1 a.) If the period of leave is for a short duration (less than two weeks), prior application for leave
shall have to be submitted to the Head of the Department concerned stating fully the reasons of the
leave along with supporting document(s). Such leave will be granted by the Head of the Department.
b.) Absence for a period not exceeding two weeks in a semester due to sickness or any
otherunavoidable reason for which prior application could not be made by the student may be
condoned by the Head of the Department provided he/she is satisfied with the explanation.
c.) If the period of absence exceeds two weeks, prior application for grant of leave will have to be
submitted to the Dean of Academic Affairs with supporting documents through the Head of the
Department in each case. The decision to grant leave shall be taken by the Dean of Academic Affairs
on the recommendation of the Head of the Department.
d.) The Dean of Academic Affairs may, on receipt of an application also decide whether the
student be asked to withdraw from the course for that particular semester because of long absence.
e.) The leave of absence as per paras 4.2 (a) to (c) will not be condoned for attendance.
4.3 It will be the responsibility ofthe student to intimate the warden of the hostel in which he/she is
residing, and the concerned instructor(s) about his/her absence before availing the leave.
4.4 In exceptional circumstances, the Dean of Academic Affairs in consultation with the Chairman,
SENATE may relax any of the above requirements.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 72 ---
5.0 Conduct and Discipline
5.1 The conduct of the students inside and outside the premises of the Institute shall be befitting the
students of an institution of national importance.
5.2 As per the order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, ragging in any form is banned. Acts of
ragging will be considered as a gross indiscipline and will be severely dealt with.
5.3 The following acts of omission and/or commission on the part of any student(s) shall constitute
gross violation of the code of conduct and will invoke disciplinary measures:
(a.) Ragging
(b.) Lack of courtesy and decorum, indecent behaviour anywhere within or outside the campus.
(c.) Wilful damage or stealthy removal of any property/belongings of the Institute/Hostel or of
fellow students.
(d.) Possession, consumption or distribution of alcoholic drinks or any kind of hallucinogenic drugs.
(e.) Mutilation or unauthorizedpossession of library books.
(f.) Noisy and unseemly behaviour, disturbing studies of fellow students.
(g.) Hacking in computer systems (such as entering other person's area with prior permission,
manipulation and/or damage of computer hardware and software etc.)
(h.) Any other act of gross indiscipline.
(i.) Commensurate with the gravity of the offence, the punishment may be reprimand, fine, expulsion
from the hostel, debarment from an examination, rustication for a specified period or even out right
expulsion from the Institute.
5.4 For an offence committed in (a) a hostel (b) a Department or in a classroom and (c) elsewhere, the
Warden, the Head of the Department and the Dean of Student Affairs, respectively, shall have the
authority to reprimand or impose fine.
All cases involving punishment other than reprimand shall be reported to the Chairman, Students
Disciplinary Committee.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 73 ---
5.5 All major acts of indiscipline, which may have serious implications on the general body of students,
and/or which may warrant a uniform and more formalized nature of investigation, shall be handled by
the Students Disciplinary Committee, appointed by the SENATE.
5.6 Cases of adoption of unfair means in an examination shall be reported to the Dean of Academic
Affairs for taking appropriate action. The action will be as follows:-
If any student is found adopting unfair means in the Mid-Term/End-Term Examination he/she will be
expelled for the subjects only but not for the rest of the examination. Such students will be awarded
'F' Grade in the subjects in which he/she will be found adopting unfair means in the examination.
5.7 In the event of a major punishment, the aggrieved party shall have the right to appeal to
Chairman, SENATE
6.0 Change of Branch
6.1 Normally a student admitted to a particular branch of the under graduate programme (B. Tech &
BT-MT) will continue to study in the same branch till completion of the course.
6.2 However, in special cases the Institute may permit a student admitted through JoSAA/CSAB to
change from one branch of studies to another after the first two semesters. Such changes will be
permitted, in accordance with the provisions laid down in 6.3
6.3 Only those students will be eligible for consideration of a change of branch after the second
semester who have.
(a.) Completed all the common credits required in the first two semesters of their studies, in their first
attempt without having any course requirement in the supplementary examination.
(b.) Obtained not less than CGPA 8.5 at the end of the second semester
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 74 ---
6.4 Applications for a change of branch must be made by intending eligible students in the
prescribed form. The Deputy Registrar (Academic)/Assistant Registrar (Academic) will call for
applications in the beginning of the odd semester of each academic year and completed forms must be
submitted by the last date specified in the notification.
6.5 Students may enlist up to six (6) choices of branch, in order of preference, to which they wish to
change over. It will not be permissible to alter the choice after the application has been submitted.
6.6 Change of branch shall be made strictly in order of merit of the applicants. For this purpose the
CGPA obtained at the end of the second semester shall be considered. In case of a tie, the CRL Rank
of the applicants will be considered.
6.7 The applicants may be allowed a change in branch, strictly in order of inter se merit, subject to
the limitation that the strength of a branch should not fall below the existing strength by more than ten
percent and should not go above the sanctioned strength by more than ten percent.
6.8 All changes of branch made in accordance with the above rules will be effective only from the
third semester of the applicants concerned. No change of branch shall be permitted after this.
6.9 All changes of branch will be final and binding on the applicants. No student will be permitted,
under any circumstances, to refuse the change of branch offered.
7.0 Course Structure
7.1 Teaching of the courses shall be reckoned in credits. Credits are assigned to the courses based
on the following general pattern:
1(one) credit for each lecture period of one hour. 1(one) credit for each tutorial period of one hour.
1(one) credit for each Laboratory or Practical or Project session of 1.5 hours.
2(two) credits for each Laboratory or Practical or Project Session of three hours duration.
7.2 In order to qualify for a B.Tech. degree of the Institute, a student is required to complete the
credit requirement as prescribed in the curriculum for a particular programme.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 75 ---
7.3 No semester will normally have more than six lecture based courses and four laboratory based
courses. However, in special cases, students may be permitted to take seven lecture-based and five
laboratory/workshop based courses subject to the recommendation of Faculty Advisor and approval
of Departmental Under graduate Programme Committee (DUPC).
7.4 In addition to the prescribed credit requirement a student shall have to complete the
requirements of Extra Academic Activities (EAA) in one of the first 4 semesters. Students will be
awarded grades in EAA, which will be recorded in the Grade Card in which a particular students
registers for the same but not taken in to account for computing the SGPA and the CGPA.
7.5 The course work requirements may be broadly divided into following four main groups of
subjects:
(i) Humanities and Social Sciences
(ii) Basic Sciences andMathematics
(iii) Engineering Sciences & Practice
(iv) Professional Subjects
7.6 The total course package for a department may consists of the following components:
(i) Institutional Core subjects
(ii) Departmental Core subjects
(iii) Departmental Elective subjects
(iv) Institute Elective subjects
7.7 Every B. Tech. programme will have a curriculum and syllabi for the courses approved by the
SENATE. DUPC will discuss and recommend the syllabi of all the undergraduate courses offered by
the Department from time to time before sending the same to the Board of Under-Graduate Studies
(BUGS). The BUGS will consider the proposals from the Departments and make recommendations to the
SENATE for consideration and approval.
7.8 Medium of instruction, examination and project will be in English.
7.9 The curriculum of an individual Department may include industrial training for 6-8 weeks for
every under graduate student. Industrial training and/or fieldwork is to be satisfactorily completed
before a student is declared eligible for the degree. The curriculum for an individual Department will
show a credit allocation for industrial training. Normally industrial training will be arranged during the
summer vacation immediately following the sixth semester of studies.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 76 ---
7.10 Faculty Advisor: To help the students in planning their courses of study and getting general
advice on the academic programme, personality development, career planning and welfare, the
concerned Department as far as possible will assign Faculty Advisor(s) for each batch of students. In
the first year the Dean of Academic Affairs shall assign Faculty Advisors.
8.0 Registration
8.1 Every student is required to register for the approved courses through the Faculty Advisor at
the commencement of each semester on the day fixed for such registration and notified in the
Academic Calendar.
8.2 Students who do not register on the day announced for the purpose may be permitted late
registration up to the notified day in Academic Calendar on payment of an additional fee on the
following conditions:-
Registration in any semester shall be allowed up to a period of 7(seven) days beyond the specified
date of registration with a fine of Rs.1,000/- (one thousand).
Registration in any semester shall also be allowed up to a period of 7(seven) days after the expiry
of first 7 (seven) days beyond the specified date of registration with a fine of Rs.5,000/- (five
thousand).
There shall be no registration after the expiry of 14(fourteen) days beyond the specified date of
registration.
This shall however not be applicable to the students who register on receipt of bank loan or in the
case of exigency such as death of any family member provided the matter of bank loan or expiry
of any family member is communicated to Dean (Academic) within 3(three) days after the end of
last date of registration.
8.3 Only those students who fulfil the following conditions will be permitted to register in the next
semester:-
(a) Cleared all Institute, Hostel and Library dues and fines (if any) of the previous semesters
(b) Paid all required advancepayments of Institute and Hostel dues for the current semester, and
(c) Cleared the minimum academic requirement.
(d) Has not been debarred from registering on any specific ground.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 77 ---
8.4 During registration following conditions must be fulfilled:
(a) A student must pass all first year courses before registering for the third year courses (5th sem
onwards).
(b) Normally, the number of credits registered for during a semester should not be less than
prescribed credits as stated in the curriculum. Under special circumstances the Dean (Academic) may
permit a student to register for more or less credits in a semester.
8.5 (a) Students obtaining grade ‘F’ in any theory subject in any semester may clear it by appearing
at the supplementary examinations.
(b) “Students failing in practical subjects will be awarded ‘F’ Grade. Such Students will be required
to re-register for those subjects in the next appropriate semester”
(c)Similarly, in case of failure in Extra Academic Activities the student will have to re-register for it
in the appropriate semester of the next academic session.
8.6 Students with year back are exempted from paying tuition fees of the semester in which he/she
does not have any back paper.
8.7 A student who obtains a CGPA less than 6.5 may be permitted by the Dean of Academic Affairs
on therecommendations of the Associate Dean (Examination) to appear at the examination for
improvement in 3 subject(s) to the maximum in which subjects the student has got at least ‘P’ grade. A
student obtaining ‘F’ or ‘FA’ grade in any subject of the current academic session will not be allowed to
appear at the examination in any subject for improvement.
8.8 A student will be allowed to appear at parallel and supplementary examination in 5 subjects to
the maximum. A student having a ‘FA’ grade in any subject will be allowed to appear at the
examination after attending required number of classes to be arranged by the concerned faculty with
the approval of the Head of the Department.
8.9 If a student fails to register himself/herself for two consecutive semesters during the
programme, his/her registration will automatically be cancelled (as approved in 53rd meeting BoG).
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 78 ---
9.0 Supplementary and Parallel Examination
9.1 Students having FA grade (fail due to shortage of attendance) in subject(s) will be allowed to sit
for parallel examination after attending 75% of classes and on payment of requisite fee as per Institute
Rule. The schedule of classes will be announced by the concerned faculty of the subject(s) as per
convenience.
However, B.Tech final year students admitted on or after 2011 and having FA grade in subject(s) will
be allowed to sit for parallel examination after attending summer course. Such candidates will be
required to pay a Rs.5,000/- per subject.
Students having F grade in subject(s) will also be allowed to appear at the supplementary examination
during the summer vacation without attending any classes on payment of requisite fee as per Institute
Rule.
9.2 The schedule of supplementary examination during the summer vacation will be announced by the
Associate Dean (Examinations) at the end of even semester examination. A student will have to
register for supplementary/ improvement examination by paying the prescribed fee as per Institute
Rule within the stipulated time to be announced by the Associate Dean (Examinations).
9.3 The total number of contact hours for any parallel examination for the students having FA grade
will be the same as in the regular course. The assessment procedure in the parallel examination will
also be similar to the procedure for a regular semester course. Grades on the result of supplementary
parallel/improvement examination will be awarded in the following manner:-
Grade obtained in Supplementary / Parallel/
Grade to be awarded
Improvement Examination
Ex A
A B
B C
C D
D P
P P
F F
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 79 ---
10.0 Duration of the programme
10.1 Normally a student should complete all the requirements for undergraduate programme in 8
(eight) semesters. However, academically weaker students who do not fulfil some of the requirements
in their first attempt and have to repeat them in subsequent semester(s) may be permitted up to 12
(twelve) consecutive semesters (from the first semester registration) to complete all the requirements
of the degree.
However, if a student is granted a withdrawal for one or more semester on medical ground the
withdrawn semester(s) will be counted towards the maximum duration of stay at the Institute.
10.2 In case a student fails to complete the B.Tech course with in the maximum limit of 12 semesters
the case will be decided separately with the approval of the Competent Aauthority.
11.0 Temporary withdrawal from the Institute
11.1 A student who has been admitted to an undergraduate programme of the Institute may be
permitted to withdraw temporarily from the Institute on the grounds of prolong illness or grave
calamity in the family for a period of one semester or more, provided:
(a) He/she applies to the Institute within at least 6 weeks of the commencement of the semester or
from the date he/she last attended his/her classes whichever is later, stating fully the reasons for
withdrawal together with supporting documents and endorsement of his/her guardian.
(b) The Institute is satisfied that, counting the period of withdrawal, the student is likely to complete
his/her requirements of the B.Tech. degree within the time limits specified in para 10 above.
(c) There are no outstanding dues or demands of the Institute / Hostel / Library / NCC / NSO.
11.2 A student who has been granted temporary withdrawal from the Institute under the provisions
of para 11.1 will be required to pay fees/charges (except tuition fees and hostel dues) till such time as
his/her name is on the Roll List. However, fees once paid will not be returned.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 80 ---
11.3 For those students who have scored F & FA grade in 4 (Four) or more theory & practical
subjects is restricted to register for the next semester, for them the semester fee will be the tuition fee
and other essential fees/charges for the intervening period till such time as his/her name is borne on
the Roll List, even if they do not have any backlog paper for any of the semester in that particular
year.
11.4 A student will be permitted only one such temporary withdrawal during his/her tenure as a
student of the undergraduate programme.
12.0 Restriction / Termination from the programme
12.1 A student is required to leave the Institute on the following grounds:
If at the end of any two semesters (one academic year) a student has scored “F” and “FA” grade in 4
(four) or more theory and practical subjects, he/she will not bepermitted to register for the next
semester subjects and will have to register for those subjects in which s/hescored “F” and “FA” grades
in the previous two semesters (i.e. a student will be promoted with 3 back papers only).
(a) If a student is absent for more than 6(six) weeks in a semester without sanctioned leave his/her
name will be struck off the rolls.
(b) A student may also be required to leave the Institute on disciplinary grounds on the
recommendations of the Students Disciplinary Committee.
13.0 Grading System
13.1 Based on the performance of a student, each student is awarded a final letter grade in each
subject at the end of the semester. The Institute follows an absolute grading system and has separate
scale for theoretical and practical subject. The letter grades and the corresponding grade points are
as follows:
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 81 ---
Theoretical Subject
70-79 B 8
60-69 C 7
50-59 D 6
40-49 P 5
Below 40 F --
Practical Subject
% of marks Grades Points
90 and above Ex 10
80-89 A 9
70-79 B 8
60-69 C 7
50-59 D 6
Below 50 F --
In addition, there shall be two transitional grades ‘I ’and ‘X’ for the students against whom disciplinary
action remains pending.
13.2 A student is considered to have completed a subject successfully and earned the credit if he
secures a letter grade other than ‘I’, ‘X ’or ‘F’ in that subject. A letter grade ‘F’ in any subject implies a
failure in that subject.
13.3 A student will be considered as Failed in a subject if s/he is not allowed to sit for the examination
due to shortage of attendance. To differentiate this with normal failure it will be shown as “F A” in the
grade card.
13.4 The Transitional Grades ‘I’ and ‘X’
(a)
The teacher of a subject may award the grade ‘I’ to a student if the latter was compelled to absent
himself from the end semester examination on account of: (i) Illness or accident which disabled him
from appearing at the examination. (ii) A calamity in the family at the time of the examination, which,
in the opinion of the Institute, required the student to be away from the campus.
A student will be eligible for the award of grade ‘I’ only if his/her attendance at classes and
performance in other components of assessment are complete and satisfactory.
(b)The teacher of a subject may award the grade ‘X’ to a student if the overall performance of the
student in the course is good, but is likely to get grade ‘F’ based on his/her end semester examination.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 82 ---
(c) All ‘I’ and ‘X’ grades awarded by teachers must be converted by them to appropriate letter
grades and communicated to the Academic Section (through Head of the Department) with in
prescribed days of the respective make up examination. Any outstanding ‘I’ and ‘X’ grades two
days after the last scheduled make up examination will be automatically converted to an ‘F’
grade.
13.5 A Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) will be computed for each semester as per
following formula:-
Where,
n is the number of courses registered during the semester.
Ci is the number of credits allotted to a particular course, and
Gi is the grade points corresponding to the grade awarded for the course.
13.6A Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) will be computed at the end of each semester as per
following formula:-
Where,
S is the SGPA of the corresponding semesters.
*C is the total credit of the corresponding semesters.
13.7 Both SGPA and CGPA will be rounded off to second place of decimal and recorded as such.
Whenever these CGPA are to be used for the purpose of determining the merit ranking of a group
of students, only the rounded off values will be used.
13.8 When a student gets the grade ‘I’ or ‘X’ for any course during a semester, the SGPA for that
semester and the CGPA at the end of that semester will be tentatively calculated ignoring ‘I’ and ‘X’
graded course(s). After conversion of ‘I’ and ‘X’ grade(s) to appropriate grade(s), the SGPA and
CGPA of that semester will finally be recalculated after taking the converted grade(s) in to account.
13.9 There are, however, a few other academic requirements for under graduate programmes where
student will be awarded following two grades viz., ‘P’ – Passed and ‘NP’–Not Passed. All non-credit
subjects (such as field visit sand Extra Academic Activities) belong to this category. No grade points
are associated with these grades and performance in these subjects is not taken into account in the
calculation of the SGPA or CGPA. However, the award of the degree is subject to obtaining a ‘P’
grade in all subjects.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 83 ---
13.10 There will be a grand viva for the B.Tech final year students of all branches of engineering. In such
grand viva an Industrialist with academic background or an academician with industrial back
ground will in variably be invited to remain present and take part in the viva-voce examination.
13.11 After the successful completion of vocational training each student will have to submit a report
in their respective Department. This will however be a non-credit subject.
14. A ssessment of Performance
14.1 There will be continuous assessment of a student’s performance throughout the semester and
grades will be awarded by the teacher concerned or the appropriate committee appointed for this
purpose on the following basis.
(a) In case of
(i) Theoretical subjects, the evaluation will be based on teachers assessment, quizzes, mid semester
examination and end semester examination, and
(ii)Sessional subjects (Laboratory/Design/Drawing/Workshop etc.), the evaluation will be on the
basis of attendance, assessment of the tasks assigned and the end semester test/viva.
(b)The evaluation of the project work will be based on Sessional work assigned by the teacher,
seminar, project report and project evaluation committee’s assessment (also see para 14.2 below)
(c)In case of other requirements such as seminar, comprehensive viva-voce, extra academic
activities etc. as determined by the grade awarding authority.
(d)The mid semester and the end semester examination will be conducted centrally by the
Examination/Academic Section of the Institute in every semester. Admit card is issued to the
students at the time of these examinations. If the admit card is lost, a duplicate admit card will be
issued against an amount of Rs. 200/-. The same can be collected from the Examination Section by
showing the ID card. The students can collect the duplicate admit card after the end of the
examination from the Examination Section, paying the requisite amount to the Institute account
through challan. He/she have to bring the duplicate admit card in remaining days of the.
examination.If any student fail to pay the requisite amount for issuance of duplicate admit card,
then their result of that semester will be withheld until the clearance of the due. The details of
modalities for the internal assessment will be as follows:-
The class test or quizzes will be organized by the teachers concerned.
(e) The weight age assigned to different components of assessment should be announced by the
concerned teacher(s) in the beginning of the semester.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 84 ---
(f) The results of performance of the students in the mid semester examination shall be announced
by the teachers of the subjects concerned with in a fortnight of the examination. The teachers will also
show the answer-scripts to the students if they want to see with in a period of 15 days from the next day
of the end of Mid Semester examination.
(g)The final grades for a subject must be submitted after the end semester examination by the concerned
teacher(s) individually to the Asso. Dean (Exam) within 7 (seven) days from the next day of the end of
End Semester examination
14.2 Evaluation of Projects
(a) The project work is normally in two stages, each spread over a semester. At the end of first
stage the student is required to submit a preliminary report of his/her work by a prescribed date to
the Project Coordinator, Secretary, DUPC and present it to an Internal Project Evaluation Committee.
The second stage of work is continued in second semester. However, the student will have an option
to carry out the project in the Industry during final semester. But all these students required to pay
the hostel fee.
(b) (i) The Chairman, DUPC will submit to the academic section the names of the project
examiners at least two weeks before the submission of the second stage project. Three unbound
typed copies of the project report one for each examiner, prepared according to the prescribed
format available in the academic section will be submitted to the Department at least one week
before the probable date of oral examination.
(ii) The Department will record the date of submission of the project and arrange to send the
project reports to the examiners. The project coordinator will inform the date of the oral examinations
to the examiners and send a copy to the academic section. The project will be evaluated by the
Project Evaluation Committee and the result will be submitted to the Project Coordinator, who in turn
will forward it to the Academic Section.
(iii) On successful completion of the oral examination, each student will be required to submit
corrected bound copy of the project report one each to the Department and the supervisor(s).
(c) Extension of time usually not exceeding 3months from the announced last date for submission of
the project report may be granted by the DUPC in the case of students with insufficient progress in
the project work. In such a case the concerned students will be temporarily awarded ‘I’ grade.
Further, if the reports are not submitted within the allowed period of time, the ‘I’ will be automatically
converted to ‘F’ grade.
(d) Those who fail in the first stage assessment will be required to re-register for the first stage in the
following semester. Likewise, those who obtainan ‘F’ grade in the final (second stage) assessment will
be required to re-register for it in the subsequent semester (including summer semester).
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 85 ---
14.3 The evaluation of performance in Extra Academic Activities will be done by the section of Dean (SW)
and will communicate grades to the Examination Section.
15. Method of awarding letter grade
15.1 The teacher(s) shall submit two copies of letter grades to the Head of the Department to which the
subject belongs, by the due date specified in the Academic Calendar. The Head of the Department will
forward all grades to the Academic Section by the due date specified in the calendar.
15.2 All evaluated work in a subject, except for end-semester answer scripts, will be returned to the
students promptly. End-semester examination answer scripts shall be preserved by the concerned
Department, and the sheets containing details of marks converted to grades shall also be preserved by
the teacher(s) concerned.
15.3 Changes in Grades Already Awarded: If a student feels that the grade awarded to him/her in a
course is not correct, he/she may request the teacher of the course to show him/her the end-semester
answer script to ensure that all questions have been evaluated before the date of result publication.
15.4 If a student is not satisfied with the result in any subject(s) in any examination, even after seeing the
answer-script(s) from the faculty, they may apply for a review of marks for the subject(s) on payment of
a fee of Rs. 500/- per subject within 30 days from the date of result publication.
15.5 Distribution of 30 marks of internal assessment in theory subjects: The modified distribution of marks
for any subject of ODD and EVEN semester of various UG, Dual Degree, PG, and Ph.D. programmes will
be as follows:
i. Attendance: 05
ii. Quiz: 05
iii. Class test: 10
iv. Assignment: 10
v. Mid-Term: 20
vi. End-Term: 50
However, the mid & end-term examinations will be conducted out of 20 & 50 marks, respectively.
16. Examinations
16.1 In assessing the students’ performance in subjects (Theory, Laboratory, and Sessional), seminars,
project work, etc., the system of continuous assessment is adopted by the Institute. In conformity with
this practice, there will be one mid-semester examination and an end-semester examination for every
theoretical subject, in addition to the teachers’ assessment and quizzes, etc. Marks distribution for
Laboratory subjects will be:
70% - Experiment
20% - Viva
10% - Report
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 86 ---
16.2 A student may be debarred from appearing in the mid or/and end semester examination due to the
following reasons: (a) If any disciplinary action is taken against him/her. (b) On recommendation of a
teacher, if: (i) His/her attendance in the Lecture/Tutorial/Practical classes has been less than 75%. (ii)
His/her performance in the Sessional work done during the semester has been unsatisfactory.
16.3 In the event of a final year student failing in a Laboratory and/or Sessional subjects, the teacher
concerned may, at his/her discretion, grant the student an extension of time not exceeding 3 months and
award an ‘I’ grade. If no such extension is given to a student, he/she has to re-register for the same
requirement in the earliest succeeding semester in which it is offered.
16.4 A supplementary examination for the students shall be conducted for 80 marks on realization of a
fee of Rs. 500/- (Rupees five hundred) per subject. The duration of the examination is three hours.
17. Make up Examinations
17.1 Students who have missed an end-semester examination for valid reasons and were awarded an ‘I’
grade are eligible for a make-up examination. They should apply to the Associate Dean (Examination)
through the Instructor/HOD within seven days from the date of the missed examination, explaining the
reasons for their absence.
17.2 No make-up examination will be scheduled for mid-semester examinations and quizzes. It is entirely
up to the teacher to ascertain the proficiency of the student by whatever means deemed appropriate if
satisfied with the student's bona fides.
17.3 Official permission for a make-up examination will be granted under exceptional circumstances such
as hospitalization due to illness or a calamity in the family at the time of the examination. Students residing
in the hostels should produce a medical certificate issued by the Institute Medical Officer only. Students
permitted to stay outside the campus or authorized to be away from the Institute should produce a
medical certificate from a Medical Officer not below the rank of a Civil Surgeon, endorsed by the
Institute Medical Officer. Certificates from private medical practitioners will not be accepted. The Dean
of Academic Affairs has the discretion to grant permission for a make-up examination.
17.4 Students who are awarded an ‘X’ grade by the teachers are also eligible for the make-up
examination.
17.5 Make-up examinations will be held as per the dates notified by the Associate Dean (Examination).
Make-up examinations at any other time can only be held with the permission of the Dean of Academic
Affairs.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 87 ---
18. Withholding of Grades
18.1 Grades shall be withheld when the student has not paid his/her dues or when there is a disciplinary
action pending against him/her.
19. Eligibility for the award of B. Tech. Degree
19.1 A student shall be declared eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree if he/she has:
(a) Completed all the credit requirements for the degree with a grade of ‘P’ or higher in each of the
subjects (Theoretical, Laboratory, Workshop, Sessional, etc.), Seminar, Project, etc.
(b) Satisfactorily completed all the non-credit requirements for the degree, such as Extra Academic
Activities, etc.
(c) “A candidate who passes the examination of all semesters in the 1st appearance and secures a CGPA
of 8.5 and above will be declared to have placed in FIRST CLASS WITH DISTINCTION."
(d) A student, in order to be eligible for a gold medal, must complete the B.Tech. programme within 8
semesters and must not have any back-paper in any semester of the entire course. A candidate who
passes the examinations of all semesters and secures a CGPA of 6.5 and above but below 8.5 and
completes the course/degree will be declared to have placed in the FIRST CLASS.
A candidate who passes the examinations of all semesters and secures a CGPA of 5.0 and above but
below 6.5 and completes the course/degree will be declared to have placed in the SECOND CLASS.
A student of B.Tech has to complete the course within 12 (twelve) semesters at the maximum.
(a) The student should not have any dues to the Institute, Department, Hostels, NCC, and NSO.
(b) The student should not have any disciplinary action pending against him/her.
19.2 The award of the B.Tech. degree must be recommended by the SENATE and approved by the Board
of Governors (BoG) of the Institute.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 88 ---
19.3 Departmental Undergraduate Programme Committee (DUPC)
Composition:
i) Head of the Department (ex-officio) Chairman
ii) 50% of the faculty members of the Department with a maximum of six or a minimum of Members
three faculty members to be nominated by the HOD of which one will be nominated
By the HOD as the Member Secretary.
iii) One faculty member from another Department. The faculty member Member
from the other Department will be nominated by the HOD of That
Department on request of the concerned Department
iv) Two students with CGPA not less than 7.5 to be elected by the
Members
undergraduate Students of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th years. One student
member from any other Department May be co-opted if necessary.
For Science and Humanities Departments, the Dean of Academic Affairs shall
Nominate the student representatives to the DUPC
concerned.
DUPC may take the assistance of an expert in the relevant area from IIT Guwahati or IIT Kharagpur as
and when necessary with the prior approval of the Competent Authority.
Tenure: Two years
Functions:
(i) To oversee the conduct of all under graduate courses of the Department.
(ii) To ensure academic standard and excellence of the courses offered by the Department.
(iii) To discuss and recommend the syllabi of all the under graduate courses offered by the Department
from time to time before sending the same to the Board of Under- Graduate Studies (BUGS).
(iv) To consider any matter related to the under graduate programme of the Department.
19.4 Board of Under-Graduate Studies (BUGS)
Composition:
i) Dean of Academic Affairs (ex-officio) Chairman
One member from each department nominated by
ii) Members
the HOD and approved by the SENATE.
iii) DR (Academic) or AR (Academic) Member, Secretary
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 89 ---
Tenure: Two years.
Functions:
1.To oversee the conduct of all undergraduate courses of the Institute.
2.To consider the proposals from the Departments and make recommendations to the SENATE for
consideration and approval.
3.To issue guidelines to various Departments on the evaluation pattern of the courses to maintain
uniformity. To consider and recommend the assessment procedure to be adopted by various
Departments.
4.To consider and recommend any other matter concerning the undergraduate programme of the
Institute.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 90 ---
7. Syllabus of B.Tech 1st Year
Semester - I
Group - 01 Group - 02
SL.
Course L T P Credit Course L T P Credit
No
Engineering Engineering
1 2 1 0 3 2 1 0 3
Mathematics-II Mathematics-II
Engineering Engineering
2 2 1 0 3 2 1 0 3
Physics-II Physics-II
Engineering Engineering
3 3 0 0 2 2 0 0 2
Chemistry-II Chemistry-II
Basic Basic Electrical
4 3 0 0 3 3 0 0 3
Electronics Engineering
Disaster Engineering
5 3 0 0 2 3 1 0 4
Management Mechanics
Introduction to
Language
6
Programming
(Professional
3 0 0 3 Communication in 3 0 0 3
English)
Engineering Engineering
7
Physics 0 0 2 1 Chemistry 0 0 2 1
Laboratory Laboratory
Engineering Workshop
8 1 2 0 0 2 1
Graphics Practice
9 Computer
Programing 0 1
Laboratory
Basic Electronics Basic Electrical
10
0 1 0 0 2 1
Laboratory Engineering
Laboratory
Total Credit in 2 8 21 Total Credit in 3 6 21
15 15
2nd semester 2nd semester
Total First Year 43 Total First Year 43
Credit
Credit
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 91 ---
Semester - II
Group - 02 Group - 01
SL.
Course L T P Credit Course L T P Credit
No
Engineering Engineering
1 2 1 0 3 2 1 0 3
Mathematics-II Mathematics-II
Engineering Engineering
2 2 1 0 3 2 1 0 3
Physics-II Physics-II
Engineering Engineering
3 3 0 0 2 2 0 0 2
Chemistry-II Chemistry-II
Basic Basic Electrical
4 3 0 0 3 3 0 0 3
Electronics Engineering
Disaster Engineering
5 3 0 0 2 3 1 0 4
Management Mechanics
Introduction to
Language
6
Programming
(Professional
3 0 0 3 Communication in 3 0 0 3
English)
Engineering Engineering
7
Physics 0 0 2 1 Chemistry 0 0 2 1
Laboratory Laboratory
Engineering Workshop
8 1 2 0 0 2 1
Graphics Practice
Computer
9
Programing 0 1
Laboratory
Basic Electronics Basic Electrical
10
Laboratory 0 1 Engineering 0 0 2 1
Laboratory
Total Credit in Total Credit in
15 2 8 21 15 3 6 21
2nd semester 2nd semester
Total First Year
Total First Year
43 43
Credit
Credit
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 92 ---
Course Curriculum for BS-MS 1st Semester, 2022-23
HoursPer Week
S/N Subject Name Code Credit
L T P
1 PHYSICS-I DSPH11B12 3 1 0 4
2 CHEMISTRY-I DSPH11B13 3 1 0 4
3 MATHEMATICS-I DSPH11B14 3 1 0 4
LANGUAGE AND TECHNICAL
4 DSPH11B15 2 0 1 3
WRITING
5 DISASTER MANAGEMENT DSPH11B16 2 0 0 2
6 PHYSICS LAB-I DSPH11P01 0 0 3 2
7 CHEMISTRY LAB-I DSPH11P02 0 0 3 2
Course Curriculum for BT-MT 1st Semester, 2022-23
HoursPer Week
S/N Subject Name Code Credit
L T P
1 ENGG. CHEMISTRY-I DTCY11B09 3 0 0 3
2 CHEMISTRY LAB DTCY11P09 0 0 2 1
3 BASIC ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING DTEE11B12 3 0 0 3
BASIC ELECTRICAL
4 DTEE11P11 0 0 2 1
ENGINEERING LABORATORY
5 COMMUNICATION IN ENGLISH DTHU11B13 3 0 0 3
6 ENGG. MATHEMATICS-I DTME11B11 3 0 0 3
7 ENGG. MECHANICS-I DTME11P10 3 1 0 4
8 WORKSHOP PRACTICE DTPH11B08 0 0 2 1
9 ENGG. PHYSICS-I DTPH11B08 3 0 0 3
10 NCC/NSS DTPH11P12 - - - -
For detail syllabus please visit
https://www.nita.ac.in/NITAmain/academics/FinalSyllabus_1stYear_2021.pdf
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 93 ---
8. FEE STRUCTURE : WHO ADMITTED DURING ACADEMIC SESSION
2024-25 B.TECH (IN RS.)
Fee to be Deposited at the time of Registration of following sem.
Fee to be
Deposited
at the
S/N ITEMS time of
3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th
Admissio 2nd
sem sem sem sem sem sem
n (Rs.) sem
Admission Fee 1,000.00
1 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Inst.
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
2 Development 5,000.00 5,000.0
Fee
3 Tuition Fee* 62,500.0 62,500.0 62,500.0 62,500.0 62,500.0 62,500.0 62,500.0 62,500.0
4 All other Fees# 2,925.00 2,925.00 2,925.00 2,925.00 2,925.00 2,925.00 2,925.00 2,925.00
Student Activity
5 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00
Fee
Comm. Skill Dev.
6 0.00 0.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 0.00 0.00
Fee
7 T & P Fee 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2,000.0 2,000.0
8 Alumni Fee 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,000.0
9 Medical Fee 1,200.00 0.00 1,200.00 0.00 1,200.00 0.00 1,200.00 0.00
10 Caution Money 5,000.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
11 Prospectus Fee 300.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
12 Identity Card Fee 200.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
13 Grade Card Fee 500.00 500.00 500.00 500.00 500.00 500.00 500.00 500.00
Degree
14 Certificate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 450.00
Fee
15 Convocation Fee 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1500.00
TOTAL 79,625.00 71,925.00 69,125.00 67,925.00 69,125.00 67,925.00 70,125.00 71,875.00
# All Other fees includes Exam fee. Rs. 1000/-, Library fee Rs. 500/-, I.T fee Rs. 1225/-(Enhanced
amount applicable from January 2023), Sports Complex User Charge Rs.200/-
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 94 ---
Note: User charges may change from time to time as per the approval of the competent authority.
*Note:
a) The SC/ST/PH Students shall get complete tuition fee waiver.
b) The Most Economically Backward Students (whose family income is less than Rs1.00 lakh
per annum) shall get full remission of the tuition fee.
c) The Other Economically Backward Students (whose family income is between Rs.1.00 lakh
to Rs.5.00 lakh per annum) shall get remission of 2/3rd of the tuition fee.
d) The revised fee would be applicable for students taking admission starting from academic
year 2016-17 onwards.
DETAILS OF HOSTEL FEES FOR ALL PROGRAMMES
UG 3rd
PG UG 1st year UG 2nd year
year
Students students students
S/N User charge in hostel onwards
Amount Amount Amount Amount
Hostel Admission fee
1 Rs 2000 Rs 2000 NA NA
(one time)
Caution Money
2 Rs 5000 Rs 5000 NA NA
(Refundable, one time)
Rs 5000 for
Rs 5000 Rs 4000 for
Hostel Rent per single room , Rs
3 for single double bedded Rs 2500
semester 4000 for double
room room
bedded room
4 Electricity Charge Rs 1000 Rs 1000 Rs 1000 NA
5 Water Charge Rs 600 Rs 600 Rs 600 NA
Hostel development
6 Rs 500 Rs 500 Rs 500 NA
fees
7 Transport Charge Rs 100 Rs 100 Rs 100 NA
Mess Advance for five
8 Rs. 18000 Rs. 18000 Rs. 18000 Rs 18000
months
Rs. 32, Rs. 31,200
Total Rs. 25,200/Rs
200 single Double bedded Rs. 20,500
24,200
room room.
NOTE: HOSTEL FEES MAY CHANGE FROM TIME TO TIME AND WILL BE SEPARATELY NOTIFIED BY
THE CHIEF WARDEN.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 95 ---
FEE STRUCTURE : BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY-MASTER OF
TECHNOLOGY (BT-MT) (IN RS.)
3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 10th
2nd
S/N Particulars 1st Sem sem sem sem sem sem sem sem sem
sem
Admission Fee
1 1,000 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Inst. Development 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
2 5,000 5,000 0.00 0.00
Fee
3 Tuition Fee* 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000
4 All other Fees# 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925
Student Activity
5 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000
Fee
Comm. Skill Dev.
6 0.00 0.00 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Fee
7 T & P Fee 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2,000 2,000
8 Alumni Fee 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,000 0.00 0.00
9 Medical Fee 1,200 0.00 1,200 0.00 1,200 0.00 1,200 0.00 1,200 0.00
10 Caution Money 5,000 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
11 Prospectus Fee 300 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
12 Identity Card Fee 200 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
13 Grade Card Fee 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 500
Degree Certificate
14 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 450 0.00 450
Fee
15 Convocation Fee 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1500 0.00 1500
TOTAL 52,125 44,425 41,625 40,425 41,625 40,265 40,25 42,375 42,625 43,375
# All Other fees includes Exam fee Rs. 1000/-, Library fee Rs. 500/-, I.T fee Rs. 1225/-
(Enhanced amount applicable from January 2023), Sports Complex User Charge Rs.200/-.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 96 ---
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE-MASTER OF SCIENCE (BS-MS) (IN RS.)
3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 10th
2nd
S/N Particulars 1st Sem sem sem sem sem sem sem sem sem
sem
Admission Fee
1 1,000 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Inst. Development 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
2 5,000 5,000 0.00 0.00
Fee
3 Tuition Fee* 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000
4 All other Fees# 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925
Laboratory fee
5 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000
(Phy./Che.)
6 Alumni Fee 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,000 0.00 0.00
7 Medical Fee 1,200 0.00 1,200 0.00 1,200 0.00 1,200 0.00 1,200 0.00
8 Caution Money 2,000 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
9 Identity Card Fee 200 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
10 Grade Card Fee 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 500 500
11 Convocation Fee 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1500 0.00 1500
TOTAL 21,325 11,925 13,125 11,925 13,125 11,925 13,125 14,425 13,125 13,425
# All Other fees includes Exam fee Rs. 1000/-, Library fee Rs. 500/-, I.T fee Rs. 1225/- (Enhanced
amount applicable from January 2023), Sports Complex User Charge Rs.200/-.
Procedure/Requirements for Acquiring various Documents Issued from
Examination Section
Please Visit : https://mis.nita.ac.in/
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 97 ---
PROSPECTUS (PG)
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 98 ---
PG PROGRAMME OF NIT AGARTALA The National Institute of Technology Agartala expanded its
academic horizon not only at Under graduate level but also at Post graduate level over the years since
01/04/2006 when the Institute emerged after conversion from Tripura Engineering College to National
Institute of Technology. It started its journey in the postgraduate level of learning with M. Tech
programmes in three Departments viz. Civil, Mechanical and Electrical Engineering in 2008-09 in three
specializations only viz. Structural Engineering, Thermal Sc. & Engineering and Power Electronics &
Drives. After that the number of specializations went on increasing with the passage of time and the
requirement of the students. The Institute presently runs M. Tech programmes, M.Sc. programmes,MCA
programme and MBA programme at Post graduate level.
1. M. Tech Programmes
M. Tech programmes are offered in the Institute by 8 (eight) academic departments in 23 (twenty three)
specializations.
Department-wise specializations and number of seats available in each specialization for direct
admission through CCMT, admission under DASA scheme and seats under sponsored category have
been given below:
Seats for
Department Name Programme Name DASA
CCMT
Artificial Intelligence 10 02
Computer Science &
Data Science & Engineering 08 00
Engineering
Cyber Security 07 00
Production Engineering Computer Integrated Manufacturing 10 02
Biotechnology & Biochemical
Bio Engineering 07 01
Engineering
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 99 ---
Geotechnical Engineering 15 02
Structural Engineering 15 02
Environmental Engineering 15 02
Civil Engineering Transportation Engineering 15 02
Water Resources Engineering 05 01
Seismic Science & Engineering 05 01
Hydro Informatics Engineering 10 02
Thermal Science & Engineering 15 02
Manufacturing Technology 15 02
Mechanical Engineering Machine Design 05 02
Automotive Engineering 05 01
Material Science & Engineering 10 01
Power Electronics & Drives 15 02
Power System Engineering 15 02
Electrical Engineering
Instrumentation Engineering 10 02
Integrated Energy System 05 01
VLSI Design 19 02
Electronics &
Communication
Engineering
Communication Engineering 15 02
Chemical Engineering Chemical Engineering 09 01
TOTAL 260 39
Sponsored Seat 02 00
Grand total 270 39
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 100 ---
1.1 Procedure of admission
Candidates are primarily admitted in M.Tech programme through centralized counseling conducted by
CCMT. This counseling is applicable only to the candidates who are GATE qualified. The seats are allotted
by the Institute conducting centralized counseling through CCMT on the basis of their rank in the GATE
examination.
There are 10 seats which are earmarked for the sponsored candidates. Candidates who are employed in
any Govt., Semi Govt., and Undertaking etc. and have completed at least two years of continuous service
may apply under this category if they are sponsored by their employer. A separate advertisement is
made inviting applications for admission under sponsored category every year generally in the month of
May-June. Candidates under sponsored category are selected by the Institute on the basis of their
performance in the oral / written examination etc. conducted by the Academic Departments. There are
another 39 seats covering all the 23 specializations for admission under Direct Admission of Students
Abroad (DASA) scheme. Admission is made under the scheme on the basis of allotment of seats by the
Institute conducting DASA.
1.2 Eligibility condition
The candidates with 65% marks or CPI / CGPA of 6.5 at a scale of 10 for General/ OBC category
candidates and 60% marks or CPI/CGPA of 6.0 at a scale of 10 for SC/ST candidates in BE/ B.Tech are
eligible for admission in M. Tech programme. The candidates must have valid GATE score for admission
under centralized counseling.
Fee structure
S/N Particulars 1st Sem 2nd Sem 3rd Sem 4th Sem Other Sem
Admission Fee
1 1,000 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Inst. Development 0.00 0.00 0.00
2 5,000 5,000
Fee
3 Tuition Fee* 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000 35,000
4 All other Fees# 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925 2,925
5 Student Activity fee 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 101 ---
6 Alumni Fee 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,000 0.00
7 Medical Fee 1,200 0.00 1,200 0.00 1,200
8 Caution Money 5,000 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
9 Identity Card Fee 200 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
10 Grade Card Fee 500 500 500 500 500
11 Convocation Fee 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,500 0.00
TOTAL 51,825 39,425 40,625 41,925 40,625
All Other fees includes Exam fee Rs. 1000/-, Library fee Rs. 500/-, I.T fee Rs. 1225/- (Enhanced amount
applicable from January 2023), Sports Complex User Charge Rs.200/-.
1.3 Reservation of Seats
For the purpose of admission in M. Tech programme 200 point roster as per Govt. of India norm is
followed in the Institute. As per this norm 15% seats are reserved for the SC candidates while 7.5 % seats,
5% seats and 27% seats are reserved for ST candidates, Physically Handicapped candidates and
candidates of Other Backward Community respectively. Recently after the 103 constitutional
amendments, a further reservation to the extent of 10% has been extended to the Economically Weaker
Sections (EWS) who were not covered under the existing reservation system. NIT Agartala is also
following the same reservation policy.
1.4 How to Apply
The candidates having valid GATE score and fulfilling required eligibility conditions may apply for
admission under centralized counseling as per norms of the Institute conducting Centralized
Counseling for admission.
1.5 Medical Examination
The candidates selected for admission will have to undergo a medical examination to be conducted by
the Medical Board formed by the Institute and satisfy the physical standards. A candidate if declared
physically unfit will not be admitted.
1.6 Registration
The candidates selected for admission will have to register himself / herself with NIT Agartala online in
the Institute itself. The physical presence of the candidate is mandatory at the time of registration.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 102 ---
1.7 Attendance
Students who are admitted will be required to attend at least 75% in all Lectures, Tutorials, classes of
Laboratories, Practical classes, Workshops classes etc. in each subject.
1.8 Timing
Classes of all the semesters will start at 9.00 am and end at 5.00 pm with break in between. The Institute
follows 5-day week.
M. Tech Regulation 2019
1. GENERAL
1.1 The National Institute of Technology Agartala, awards the degree of Master of Technology (M. Tech)
in Engineering to those who have successfully completed the stipulated Post- graduate Masters
Programme.
1.2 The Post-graduate Masters Programme with the governing rules and regulations are formulated by
the Board of Governors (BOG) of the Institute on recommendation of SENATE. The BOG can modify or
change the structure the governing rules and regulations from time to time.
1.3 A candidate becomes eligible for the award of the M. Tech degree after fulfilling all the academic
requirements prescribed by the SENATE of the Institute.
2. CATEGORIES OF M. TECH.STUDENTS
The Institute admits M. Tech students under the following categories:
I. REGULAR (FULL-TIME)
These are students who work full-time for their M. Tech Programme. They may receive assistantship from
the Institute or any other recognized funding agency or may be self-financed. Since the Provision of
part-time M. Tech is not in the Rule, Project Staff should also. be full-time.
II. SPONSORED (FULL-TIME) STUDENTS
A candidate in this category is sponsored by a recognized organization, mentioned above or doing M.
Tech in the Institute on a full time basis. He/ She should have at least two years of working experience in
the respective organization. He/ She will not receive any financial support from the Institute. Sponsorship
letter (Form I) should be attached with the application.
III. INSTITUTE EMPLOYEES
Institute employees may be sponsored as full time students by the Director on recommendation of the
Head of the employee's Department. Form- II must be enclosed at the time of application.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 103 ---
IV. QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMME (QIP)
This category refers to a student selected under the Quality Improvement Programme QIP) scheme of
the AICTE. The student has to work on full-time basis in the M. Tech Programme as per the rules and
regulations of QIP.
3. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Students for admission to the M. Tech Programme in Engineering Departments must satisfy
the following criteria:
I. Bachelor's degree in Engineering/Technology or equivalent in an appropriate area or an MCA for the
Department of CSE) with at least 60% marks or equivalent or CGPA of 6.5 on a 10 point scale for General
OBC category students and 55% marks or CGPA of 6.0 on a 10 point scale in case of SC/ST category of
students, as prescribed by CCMT.
II. Valid GATE score for Regular (full-time) students for receiving Institute assistantship only.
III. Departments may propose additional requirements over and above these minimum equirements. Any
proposal placed will be discussed in the Board of Post Graduate Studies (BPGS) before placing in the
SENATE.
4. ADMISSION PROCEDURE
4.1 Admission to the M. Tech. Programme of the Institute will normally be in the month of July every year
through centralized counselling process based on the GATE score. For admission, advertisement issued in
the month of April/May centrally by CCMT.
4.2 B. Tech Students graduating from any one of the IITs/NITs with CGPA of 8.0 or above may be
admitted directly without assistantship in their respective disciplines without GATE score. However, they
have to follow the formal process of admission which is notified time to time. Non Gate candidates may
also apply based on vacancies, if any, left after admission through CCMT, though written / oral tests. For
this, formal notice will be issued by the Authority with the approval of Chairman SENATE.
4.3 The applicants who have completed or are likely to complete all the examinations including the thesis
oral examination, viva etc., of the qualifying degree by the date of admission to the programme may be
considered for admission: however, if admitted, they must produce the evidence of their having passed
the qualifying degree examination with the specified marks/CPI(as specified in clause 3) within 8 weeks
of the beginning of the semester or date specified by NITA, failing which their admission is liable to be
cancelled.
4.4 Candidate(s) whose selection is (are) approved by the Chairman, SENATE will be admitted to the M.
Tech Programme of the Institute after payment of the prescribed fees.
4.5 The admission of any student will be treated as cancelled and void, if at any stage it is detected that
he/she has obtained admission based on false information or has submitted fake mark sheet/degree,
caste/PH certificate, etc., or suppressed some material information of academic nature or otherwise
required for his/her admission in the Institute The SENATE may either appoint a Committee to examine
any specific case or review rules regarding admission time-to-time.
4.6 DASA Rules to be followed for the admission of student from abroad.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 104 ---
5. FINANCIAL SUPPORT
Students admitted to the M. Tech Programme will be considered for assistantship, fellowship etc. subject
to the following norms:
5.1 A student must have the valid GATE score at the time of admission.
5.2 All students admitted and registered for each semester in any of the M. Tech. Courses of this
Regulation shall be entitled to Institute Assistantship, provided that, the first installment of assistantship
shall be released only after satisfactory scrutiny of necessary documents supporting the students’
eligibility for the assistantship. The students will have to submit all documents as per the notice served for
the said purpose. Students receiving assistantship from the Institute or from any other funding agencies
will be required to perform academic duties assigned to them by the departments as per rules in force
from time to time.
5.3 The continuation of the assistantship/ fellowship will be subject to satisfactory performance of the
duties assigned by the department and satisfactory progress in the post-graduate programme.
5.4 Financial assistance will normally be for a period of two years from the date of starting of classes or
the date of commencement of course whichever is earlier. The monthly value of the assistantship shall be
as approved by the Board of Governors from time to time with the prior sanction of the Government of
India. No student shall be permitted to enjoy more than one assistantship or remuneration from any other
source during the same period.
5.5 No financial assistance from the Institute will be available to Sponsored candidates/ Non GATE and
Non-CCMT candidates. Project staff admitted, if any, will get funding from projects as per rules but will
not get any additional assistance from the Institute.
5.6 Research Operating Grant:
i) The HOD of the Department is empowered to monitor the utilization of the fund exclusively for the
following purpose related to the research work of M. Tech students as proposed/recommended by the
guide, however, it should not exceed Rs. 10,000/- per annum per student for M. Tech. The approving
power remains with the Head of the Institute. The unspent amount cannot be carried over for next
year. However, the final approving power remains with the Head of the Institute.
ii) The Research Promotion Grand may be utilized:
a) To procure consumables required for next year.
b) To procure computer accessories (external hard disc and pen drives only, and as per research
requirement) and antivirus software.
c) Books relevant to research work.
d) Photocopying, printing and binding charges-only at the time of final thesis submission.
e) Minor instruments/spares costing below Rs.5,000/- per item related to the research work.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 105 ---
f) Sample analysis, testing charges, fabrication, labour charges relevant to the research work.
g) Attending Workshops, Seminars, Conferences, Training, Data Collection, Research Survey etc.
Conference Registration fee
h) For travel within India, train fare up to 2AC may be reimbursed. TA/DA as per Institute rules.
i) Annual membership to professional societies related area of research work.
iii) All the purchase under the said operating grant should be made through Indent/Purchase order as
per Purchase Rules of the Institute.
iv) All items purchased under the above grant should be entered in the relevant Departmental stock
register.
5.7 A student shall be required to abide by all instructions issued by the Institute from time to time
concerning award/payment of assistantship. In the event the student is reported to be caught/proved
adopting unfair means in the examination, laboratory tests etc., the disciplinary committee will have
the option to decide stopping the payment of assistantship and any other contingency amount for such
duration, as it may deem fit and approved by the Chairman, SENATE.
5.8 A Student may be allowed to work in an Industry only after completion of the 1st year of the
course. In those cases, the student has to produce the acceptance copy from Industry and duly
approved by Departmental Post Graduate Program Committee. No financial assistance/MHRD
scholarship will be provided to the student from the Institution in case he/she is receiving some
assistantship/scholarship from the Industry concerned.
6. LEAVE RULES
6.1 An M. Tech student is eligible for 30 days leave in a year, including Casual Leave. Saturdays,
Sundays, or holidays during the leave period are counted towards leave, except for prefixed or
suffixed holidays. He/she will not be entitled to semester breaks, summer and winter vacation.
6.2 Medical leave to the maximum of 10 days may be granted to an M. Tech. student over and above
30 days of admissible leave under special circumstances.
6.3 An M. Tech. student is eligible for 180 days of maternity (in case of female) or 15 days of paternity
leave (in case of male) as applicable, provided they have completed the first two semesters. However,
the duration of academic period will be extended to the extent of the leave period. The student will not
be eligible for any scholarship/ assistantship for the extended period beyond the maximum period of
the course (4 Semesters). Such leave will be sanctioned by the Dean Academic if recommended by the
Supervisor and forwarded by the HOD. The student has to produce a certificate from Senior Medical
Officer/ Medical Officer of the Institute in such cases.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 106 ---
6.4 Academic leaves: To attend conferences/seminars/workshops/trainings/short-term courses, a
maximum of 20 days of leave is permissible in an academic year.
6.5 In exceptional cases, the Chairman of the SENATE may grant extra leave on a case-by-case
basis, only on prior sanction.
6.6 Absence without obtaining prior sanction of leave will be considered an act of indiscipline and
shall entail reduction of scholarship on a pro rata basis, besides any other action that may be decided
by the Institute.
6.7 Any absence over and above the prescribed limit of admissible leave shall entail deduction from
the scholarship, besides other actions as may be decided by the Institute.
6.8 Head of the Department (HoD)/ Dean Academic sanctions leave (for clauses 6.1, 6.2, & 6.4) on
recommendation by the Supervisor. In the absence of the supervisor, the PG Coordinator may
recommend.
6.9 Semester registration is mandatory for every semester covering the leave period.
7. COURSE STRUCTURE
7.1 The course structure for a P.G Degree program will typically consist of the following components:
a) Core courses: ≥28 credits
b) Elective courses: ≥12 credits
c) Major projects: 35 credits (in 3rd & 4th semesters)
7.2 The Departmental Post Graduate Committee (DPPC - Appendix-II) will discuss and recommend the
exact credits offered for the program for the above components 'a' to 'd' (in the range of 75-83), the
semester-wise distribution of the courses and credits, as well as the syllabi of all postgraduate
programs offered by the department from time to time. This shall be finalized by the DPPC before
sending the same to the Board of Post Graduate Studies (BPGS - Appendix-II). The BPGS will consider
the proposals from the departments and make recommendations to the SENATE for consideration and
approval.
7.3 Teaching for the course shall be reckoned in credits as specified against each subject.
7.4 In order to qualify for a postgraduate degree of the Institute, a student is required to complete all
the credits specified in the scheme of instruction for that program as approved by the SENATE from
time to time.
7.5 The curriculum for a course shall comprise core subjects, elective subjects, seminars, laboratory,
and major project followed by project viva voce. The list of elective subjects may include subjects
from allied disciplines also.
8. ACADEMIC CALENDAR
8.1 The academic year is divided into two semesters.
8.2 The SENATE shall approve the schedule of academic activities for an academic year, including the
dates for Mid-semester and End-semester examinations, which shall be referred to in the academic
calendar of the year. Each semester will normally be of 18 weeks, which includes the period for End-
semester examinations also.
8.3 The academic calendar declared by the SENATE at the beginning of a semester shall also fix the
dates for Technical/Cultural events during which all the co-curricular and extra-curricular programs
may be organized.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 107 ---
9. RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENT
9.1 The Institute is essentially a residential one and unless otherwise exempted/ permitted, every
student shall he required to reside in and be a boarder of one of the halls of residence and mess to
which he/she is assigned.
9.2 In certain cases where the student/ project supervisor feels that the M. Tech. project has to be
carried within the premier Institutes with which Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs) exists where
sufficient expertise/ laboratory facilities are available, they may be allowed to do so on the
recommendations of the DPPC followed by subsequent approval of the Chairman SENATE. In all these
cases, the external Supervisor may send the monthly attendance as well as the progress report to the
Internal Supervisor for availing the monthly Scholarship. The period of such work outside the Institute
will be restricted for a maximum period of three (03) months during the second year of the course. No
such leave will be available in the first year of the course. In genuine/special cases, the period of such
work may be extended by another three (03) months by Chairman SENATE.
10. ATTENDANCE
Attendance in all classes (lectures/tutorials, laboratories, workshops etc.) is compulsory. A student
may be debarred from appearing at an examination on grounds of unsatisfactory attendance.
10.1 Minimum required attendance in each theory / laboratory course is 75 % for appearing at the
mid/end semester examination
10.2 Absence without obtaining sanction of leave will be considered as an act of indiscipline and shall
entail deduction from scholarship on pro-rata basis
11. REGISTRATION
11.1 Every student of the PG courses is required to be present and register at the commencement of
each semester on the day fixed for and notified in the Academic Calendar by paying requisite fees
through the MIS account.
11.2 The physical registration will be organized departmentally under the supervision of the Head of
the Department and PG coordinator.
11.3 A student, who does not register on the day announced for the purpose may be permitted, in
consideration of any compelling reason, late registration within the next three working days on
payment of a prevalent additional late fee as prescribed by the Institute. Normally no late registration
shall be permitted after the third working day from the scheduled date.
11.4 Only those students will be permitted to register who have (a) Cleared all Institute, library.
conveyance and Hostel dues of the previous semesters, (b) Paid all required prescribed fees for the
current semester, and (c) Not been debarred from registering for a specified period on disciplinary or
any other ground.
11.5 The students will choose the subjects for registration in consultation with the Faculty Advisor
(Appendix-III). The students may also consult the Head of the Department / Centre and other
teachers.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 108 ---
11.6 A student enrolled in the M. Tech. program may be permitted to become a non-resident upon the
recommendation of the Faculty Advisor/Project Supervisor and the Head of the Department/Centre, with
the approval of the Dean of Academic Affairs. This is contingent upon successfully completing two
consecutive semesters of the Master’s degree course with a CGPA of 6.0 or above, without any failures. The
student who withdraws must finish the thesis/project work, submit the thesis, and take the final viva-voce
within five years of admission. Sponsored students or those opting for non-residency to join a job must
provide a letter from their employer confirming that they can conduct the thesis/project work at their
workplace. If their employer cannot facilitate the project, they must return to the Institute to work on it full-
time later. Additionally, female students may be granted maternity leave with full assistantship (if applicable),
provided they have completed their first year in the M. Tech. program.
11.7 A student granted permission may submit their dissertation later, but they must complete the project work
and submit the dissertation within five years of their admission date. Furthermore:
1.They must inform the Head of the Department/Centre in writing by the end of the preceding June about
their intention to submit the dissertation.
2.Before submission, the student must present a seminar talk on a date determined by the Head of the
Department/Centre, clear any outstanding dues to the Institute or Hall of Residence, and pay an
additional re-admission fee as required.
3.The Head of the Department/Centre will arrange the assessment of the dissertation and the conduct of
the viva-voce alongside those of other regular students from the current semester. A student who
withdraws under the provisions of Para 11.6 before the dissertation submission deadline will not be
allowed to submit their dissertation with their batch.
11.8 Students who discontinue their studies without prior permission before completing the coursework of the
First and Second semesters will be considered to have abandoned their studies, and their names will be
removed from the Institute’s rolls effective from their last day of attendance. A student leaving the Institute
without permission after completing the Second semester will also be deemed to have discontinued their
studies and will face similar consequences. Transcripts or grade cards for any incomplete courses/programs
will not be issued in such instances.
11.9 Permanent employees of NITA may be allowed to pursue the four-semester program in a staggered
manner, completing the entire course of study and project work within a maximum of five years from the
year of admission. They must submit a request in the prescribed format in advance, and must not leave the
Institute until permission is granted. They will be required to pay the prescribed tuition fees to retain their
enrollment status. A student seeking permission under this paragraph must adhere to the procedure outlined
in Para 11.6.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 109 ---
11.10 A student who has already registered may:
(a) Register for a new subject in addition to the subjects he/she has already registered for;
(or)
(b) Opt for a new subject in place of the one already registered for, with the concurrence of the faculty
advisor. Any change of the subject as permissible by sub-paras (a) and (b) above must, however, be
done within one week of registration, and the conditions laid down in Para 7.6 above must be fulfilled.
11.11 If a student fails to register himself/herself for two consecutive semesters during the program,
his/her registration will automatically be canceled (as approved in the 53rd meeting of BoG).
12. ASSESSMENT OF ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE:
12.1 There will be continuous assessment of the performance of students throughout the semester, and
grades will be awarded by the subject teacher/DPPC.
12.2 Each theory subject in a semester is evaluated for 100 marks, with the following weightages:
Internal - 30%
Mid-semester Examination - 20%
End-semester Examination - 50%
12.3 The mid-semester examination will be conducted after 7 or 8 weeks of instruction.
12.4 For assigning marks in internal assessments, assignments, class tests, and quizzes may be
conducted.
12.5 The mode and nature of the evaluation must be communicated to the students at the beginning of
the semester along with the lecture schedule.
12.6 Each laboratory course may be evaluated on the basis of continuous evaluation (lab reports, viva,
quizzes, lab tests, etc.).
12.7 The numeric marks obtained in each course will be converted to letter grades.
12.8 A Seminar Assessment Committee will be formed by the Head of the Department/Centre for
evaluating the performance of students at seminars. Every student who registers for a 'Seminar' is
expected to attend all seminars for all the students of the batch held in the Department/Centre during
the semester. Due weightage will be given to a student's attendance in the overall evaluation of this
requirement.
13. PROJECT & THESIS AND ITS EVALUATION
13.1 Thesis supervisor(s) for a student will be appointed from amongst the faculty members of NIT
Agartala. Departments will evolve modalities for appointing supervisors, keeping in view the students'
aspirations and faculty interest. The DPPC will coordinate this activity and formally communicate the
appointment of thesis supervisor(s) to the Academic Section. No change/addition of Supervisor(s) is
allowed after the thesis has been submitted to the Academic Section. In case there has been a
change/addition of the Supervisor(s), the thesis will be submitted not earlier than three months from the
date of communication of such change/addition to the Academic Section.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 110 ---
No student once registered for thesis/project units will be allowed to continue the programme without a
Thesis Supervisor having been appointed by the DPPC. No student will have more than two supervisors. No
change in thesis supervisor(s) will be allowed without the consent of the DPPC. In exceptional cases, with
prior approval of the Chairman, SENATE, on the recommendation of the DPPC, a student may be allowed to
have a co-supervisor from outside the Institute.
13.2 Thesis/Project Oral Examination Committee (thesis assessment committee): The thesis/project will be
examined by an oral examination committee consisting of the following members:
a) Supervisor(s)
b) One external expert
c) One expert from another department
d) One expert from the concerned department.
The oral examination committee shall be coordinated by either the Supervisor or, in his absence, by the
departmental programme coordinator. The committee shall be approved by Dean, Academic, on
recommendation from the Head of the Department. The external expert will be selected by the Director.
13.3 The Convener, DPPC will submit to the academic section for approval of the Dean (Academic) the names
of the thesis/project examiners on the prescribed form, at least two weeks before the submission of the
thesis. Unbound typed copies of thesis/project, one for each examiner, prepared according to the prescribed
format available in the academic section, will be submitted at least one week before the probable date of the
oral examination. The oral examination will be held within two months from the date of submission of the
thesis/project. If, however, the student does not make themselves available for the examination, their
programme will be deemed to have been terminated. A request for revival of the programme by such a
student should be addressed to the Chairman SENATE. The Department will record the date of submission of
the thesis/project and arrange to send the thesis to the examiners. The supervisor/programme coordinator
will inform the examiners of the date of the oral examination and send a copy to the academic section. The
thesis/project will be evaluated, and the Oral Examination will be conducted by the Committee, and the
report will be submitted to the convener, DPPC. The report will be communicated by the Convener, DPPC,
through the Head, to the academic section for record and necessary action. On successful completion of the
Oral Examination, each student will be required to submit one bound copy of the thesis/project each to the
academic section, department, central library, and the Thesis Supervisor(s).
13.4 Acceptance/Rejection of the Thesis/Project A thesis/project will be considered to have been accepted
if all members of the committee recommend its acceptance. Otherwise, the thesis/project will be considered
to have been rejected. If a thesis/project is rejected, along with a recommendation by the Committee for
resubmission after incorporating modifications/corrections suggested by the Committee, the oral examination
for the resubmitted thesis/project will be conducted by the same Committee, unless otherwise approved by
the Dean (Academic). If the resubmitted thesis/project is rejected, the matter will be reported to the SENATE
for appropriate action. Acceptance of the thesis/project will be reported to the SENATE for approval.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 111 ---
13.5 Total 35 credits are assigned to the thesis/project work carried out by a student. Out of total
credits of thesis/project work, 15 credits will be evaluated at the end of the III semester and 20 credits
will be evaluated at the end of the IV semester as per the academic calendar. For the purpose of
assessment, the performance of a student in the project work may be divided into the following
subcomponents.
a) Assessment by Supervisor (project work) - 30%
b) Assessment by the thesis assessment committee of the Department (Seminar) - 20%
c) External examiner - 50%
13.6 External examiner may be from inside or outside the Institution.
13.7 The project supervisor will periodically review the progress of the student and finally give his
assessment of the work done by the student.
13.8 The thesis assessment committee (Thesis/project oral examination committee) of the department
will be constituted. It will assess the performance of the candidate when the candidate presents
his/her thesis work in the form of a seminar.
13.9 Extension of project work beyond the deadline of submission in very special cases may be granted
by the Dean (Academic) on recommendation of the Departmental Post Graduate Program Committee
(DPPC) for a maximum period of 3 months. The viva-voce will have to be completed within the
extension period. The student shall not be eligible either for the award of a scholarship during the
extension period or any medal/prize. However, if the student had been absent on medical grounds and
his/her project had been extended, he/she will be eligible for the award of a medal or prize.
14. EVALUATION - Grading System:
14.1 As a measure of students' performance. a 7-scale grading system using the following letter
grades and corresponding grade points per credit shall be followed:
Letter Grade Performance Grade point%
EX Excellent 10
A Very good 9
B Good 8
C Fair 7
D Average 6
P Pass 5
F Fail 0
In addition, there shall be four transitional grading symbols which can be used by the
examiners to indicate the special position of a student in a subject.
I -for "incomplete assessment".
W-for "withdrawal from the course"
FA-for "insufficient attendance in the course"
X - for "debarred"
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 112 ---
14.2 A semester Grade Point Average will be computed for each semester The SGPA will be calculated
as follows
Where C – Credit for the course.
GP, =the Grade Point obtained for the course and the summation is over all the coursestaken in that
semester and n is the number of subjects registered for the semester.
11.10 A student who has already registered may (a) Register for a new subject in addition to the subjects
he/she has already registered for; (or) (b) Opt for a new subject in place of the one already registered
for, with the concurrence of the faculty advisor. Any change of the subject as permissible by sub-paras
(a) and (b), above must, however, be done within one week of registration and the conditions laid down
in Para 7.6 above must be fulfilled. 11.11 If a student fails to register himself/herself for two consecutive
semesters during the program, his/her registration will automatically be canceled (as approved in 53rd
meeting of BoG).
Where n = total number of semesters under consideration.
C, = total number of credits registered for during a particular semester
Si = SGPA of that semester.
14.4 The CGPA, SGPA, and the grades obtained in all the subjects in a semester will be communicated
to every student at the end of every semester.
14.5 Both SGPA and CGPA will be rounded off to the second place of decimal and recorded as such.
Whenever these grade point averages are to be used for the purpose of determining the merit
ranking of a group of students, only the rounded-off values will be used.
14.6 The minimum SGPA requirement for continuing in the M. Tech. Programme is 6.0. However, M.
Tech. students securing a CGPA between 5.5 and 6.0 may be allowed to continue in the following
semester on the recommendation of the DPPC (Departmental Postgraduate Programme Committee)
and on approval of the Chairman of the SENATE. Students who secure an SGPA below 6.0 in two
consecutive semesters will not be allowed to continue in the postgraduate programme. Students must
obtain a minimum SGPA of 6.0 in order to graduate. In the first semester in which the student
registers, the minimum CGPA (SGPA) requirement can be relaxed to 5.5.
14.7 When a student gets the grade 'I' for incomplete assessment for a subject(s) during a semester,
the SGPA of that semester and the CGPA at the end of that semester will be tentatively calculated
ignoring this (these) subjects. After the 'I' grade(s) has (have) been converted to appropriate grades,
the SGPA and CGPA for the semester will finally be recalculated after taking into account these
grades.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 113 ---
15. EXAMINATIONS
15.1 In keeping with the policy of continuous assessment, in the case of theoretical subjects, there will
be a mid-semester examination in about the middle of the semester and an end-semester examination
at the end of the semester. Normally, there will be no mid-semester examination in the practical (i.e.,
Laboratory, Workshop, etc.). However, the final evaluation will be based on continuous assessment in
each laboratory/practical class followed by the End-Semester Examination. Students will be permitted
to appear in the examinations of only those subjects for which they have registered themselves at the
beginning of the semester. The semester examination will carry specified weightage for the purpose of
the award of grades vide para 12.2 above.
15.2 A student will be required to discontinue studies if the SGPA/CGPA computed at the end of any
semester falls below 6.0, even after taking into consideration the results of the supplementary
examination.
15.3 The answer script of the Mid, End term Examinations, and any other examinations of a semester
will be available for self-inspection by the students. It is mandatory for the teacher concerned to show
the answer script to the student before the date of result publication (as approved in the 49th meeting
of BoG).
15.4 If a student is not satisfied with the result after seeing the answer script(s) from the faculty,
he/she may apply for a review of marks of the subject on payment of a fee of Rs.500/- (Rupees five
hundred only) per subject within 30 days from the date of result publication (as approved in the 49th
meeting of BoG).
15.5 Students with F grades also have an option to re-register for the subject(s) in which they had
failed in the even or odd semester as and when they are offered. In such a case, they will be entitled
to full credit according to performance at the examination.
15.6 A student whose performance in any of the parts of the project work has been unsatisfactory
may be assigned additional work on the same problem or assigned a new problem. If the student is
assigned additional work, the student will have to complete the work and appear at the viva-voce as
per the academic calendar fixed by the SENATE. If the student is assigned a new problem on account
of any reason, the student will have to submit the dissertation and complete the viva-voce by
December 31 of that calendar year. The student will not be eligible for a scholarship during the
extended period of his stay but will have to pay project semester fees during the extended period of
stay.
16. THE 'INCOMPLETE’ GRADE 'I' AND INSUFFICIENT GRADE 'FA'
16.1 The grade 'I’ may be temporarily given to a student who is unable to appear in the end- semester
examination because of
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 114 ---
(a) Illness or accident, which disables the student from appearing in the examination. This must be duly
certified by the Institute Medical Officer.
(b) A calamity in the family at the time of the examination which, in the opinion of the
Head of the Department/Centre and Dean of Students Affairs, required the student
to be away from the campus.
16.2 If a student is unable to appear at a mid-semester examination for any of the compelling reasons
mentioned above, the teacher(s) concerned may use discretion, and take a test with the same
weightage.
16.3 A student who has been awarded grade 'I' in a subject in the end-semester examination shall
have the option to either:
(a) Appear at a supplementary examination to be held by the Department by filling in the application in
prescribed form together with payment of necessary fees. In the supplementary examination, the
student will be awarded one grade lower than the actual grade obtained from the performance in the
examination, except in the case of grade 'P', which will remain unchanged. (OR)
(b) Re-register for the subject in the subsequent semester in which it is offered. In such case, the
student is entitled to full credit in accordance with the performance. No supplementary examination
will be held in laboratory subjects. The student has to re-register during a regular semester.
16.4 A student who has insufficient attendance shall be awarded grade 'FA'.
17. GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
17.1 In order to qualify for a P.G. degree of the Institute, a student must:
(a) Have completed all the credit requirements for the degree, as prescribed by the SENATE, with
grade 'P' or a higher grade in each of the subjects for which the student registered in all the
semesters.
(b) Have obtained a CCGPA of 6.00 or more at the end of the semester in which the student
completes all the requirements (including the dissertation) for the degree.
(c) A student who has qualified for the degree will be admitted to it only after the student has cleared
all Institute and Hall dues, if any, outstanding against the student, has returned all library books
borrowed by the student, and has also returned instruments, Department/Centre library books, etc.
18. DISCIPLINE
18 .1 Students shall conduct themselves within and outside the precincts of the Institute in a manner
befitting the students of an institution of national importance
18. 2 As per the order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, ragging in any form is banned: acts of
ragging will be considered as gross indiscipline and will be severely dealt with.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 115 ---
18.318.3 The following acts of omission and/or commission shall constitute gross violation of the code of
conduct and are liable to invoke disciplinary measures:
a) Ragging
b) Lack of courtesy and decorum, indecent behavior anywhere within or outside the campus,
c) Willful damage or stealthy removal of any property/belongings of the Institute/Hostel or of fellow
students
d) Possession, consumption or distribution of alcoholic drinks or any kind of hallucinogenic drugs
e) Mutilation or unauthorized possession of library books
f) Noisy and unseemly behavior, disturbing studies of fellow students
g) Hacking in computer systems (such as entering another person's area without prior permission,
manipulation, and/or damage of computer hardware and software, etc.)
h) Any other act of gross indiscipline
Commensurate with the gravity of the offense, the punishment may be reprimand, fine, expulsion from
the hostel, debarment from an examination, rustication for a specified period, or even outright
expulsion from the Institute.
18.4 For an offense committed in (a) a hostel, (b) a department or in a classroom, and (c) elsewhere,
the Warden, the Head of the Department, and the Dean of Student's Affairs, respectively, shall have
the authority to reprimand or impose a fine. All cases involving punishment other than reprimand shall
be reported to the Chairman of the Students Disciplinary Committee.
18.5 All major acts of indiscipline which may have serious implications on the general body of students,
and/or which may warrant a uniform and more formalized nature of investigation, shall be handled by
the Students Disciplinary Committee, appointed by the SENATE.
18.6 Cases of adoption of unfair means in an examination shall be reported to the Dean of Academic
Affairs for taking appropriate action.
18.7 In the event of a major punishment, the aggrieved party shall have the right to appeal to the
Chairman of the SENATE. Students are expected to observe norms of good behavior, rules and
regulations prescribed, and orders issued by the university authorities of the Institute from time to
time.
19. TEMPORARY WITHDRAWAL
19.1 A student who has been admitted to the M. Tech program may be permitted to withdraw
temporarily for a period of one semester or more from the Institute on account of prolonged illness or
acute problems in the family, provided that:
a) The student applies to the Institute within 15 days of commencement of the semester or from the
date last attended the classes, stating fully the reasons for such withdrawal together with supporting
documents and endorsement of the father/guardian.
b) There are no outstanding dues or demands from the Institute/Department/Centre/Hall of
Residence/Library.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 116 ---
c) The Institute is satisfied that, inclusive of the period of withdrawal, the student is likely to complete
all the requirements for the degree within 4 years from the date of admission to the program.
19.2 A student who has been granted temporary withdrawal under provisions of clause 19.1 will be
required to pay fees/charges (except tuition fee and hostel dues) throughout the entire duration of
withdrawal along with current semester registration when the student rejoins the program.
19.3 A student shall be granted only one such temporary withdrawal during the program.
20. RELAXATION
The SENATE may, under exceptional circumstances, consider any case of a student having a minor
deficiency in respect of any of the requirements stated in these regulations and relax the relevant
provision of these regulations on the merit of the case The grounds on which such relaxation is
granted shall invariably be recorded and cannot be cited as precedence
21. DEBAR OF A STUDENT
A student may be debarred from attending the end semester examinations/registering from the
courses in a semester on grounds of indiscipline/malpractices in the examinations in such cases,
he/she is awarded 'X' grade as a transitional grade.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 117 ---
Form I – SPONSORSHIP LETTER
(This should be typed on the letter head of the sponsoring organization)
Reference No.
To
The Director, Date :
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Sub: Sponsoring an Employee for M.Tech programme as a full time student
Dear Sir,
I/ We hereby sponsor the candidate Mr./ Ms…………………… …...…………… who is an
employee in our organization and has been continuously working as a regular employee for
the last .................................. year(s) (minimum 1 year) after completion of qualifying degree,
required for joining M.Tech Programme, in the Department of …………...............……
..…………………… at your Institute as a full-time student.
I/ We shall relieve him/her of his/her duties in the organization, initially for one year.
However, if he/she is unable to complete the required course work or has to carry out the
project at NIT Agartala, he/she will be further relieved of his/ her duties in the organization
for subsequent year(s) as deemed fit for completion of the M.Tech Programme, subject to
the maximum allowable duration of M.Tech regulations of NIT Agartala.
Signature and Seal of the
Sponsoring Authority
****************
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 118 ---
PH.D PROGRAMME
This Institute runs Ph.D programmes in Engineering, Science and Humanities & Social Science. In engineering,
Ph.D programme is run in Civil, Mechanical, Electrical, Computer Science & Engineering, Electronics & communic
Communication, Electronics & Instrumentation, Production, Chemical and Bio Engineering Departments. Ph.D
programme is also run in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics Department. The Department of Management,
Humanities & Social Sciences also runs a Ph.D programme.
THE FEE STRUCTURE OF PH.D PROGRAMME IS AS FOLLOWS:
# All Other fees includesExam fee Rs. 1000/-, Library fee Rs. 500/- and Sports Complex User
Charge Rs.200/-.
In addition to above mentioned fees, following fees are also to be paid at the time of
submission of provisional Ph.D thesis by the scholar:
● Thesis submission fee - Rs.10,000/-
● Convocation fee - Rs.1,500/-
Total - Rs.11,500/-
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 119 ---
PH.D REGULATIONS 2018
(REVISED UPTO 35TH MEETING OF SENATE)
CONTENTS
1 General
2 Categories of Ph.D. Scholars
3 Minimum Qualifications
4 Admission Procedure
5 Financial Support
6 Leave Regulations
7 Supervisor(s)/ Joint supervisor(s)
8 Appointment of Supervisor(s)
9 Doctoral Committee (DC)
10 Change of Doctoral Committee
11 Course Work
12 Comprehensive Examination
13 Registration for Ph.D. Program
14 Progress Review
15 Semester Registration
16 Change of Category
17 Cancellation of Registration
18 Minimum Duration for submission of Synopsis
19 Maximum Duration of the Ph.D. Program
20 Synopsis of Thesis
21 Panel of Examiners
22 Submission of Provisional Thesis
23 Examiners of the Thesis
24 Thesis Reports
25 Oral Examination Board (OEB)
26 Award of Ph.D. Degree
27 Power to Modify
28 Ph.D. Forms
29 Sequence of Events in the Ph.D. Curriculum
30 Exceptions in the Ph.D. Curriculum
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 120 ---
GENERAL
The National Institute of Technology Agartala (NITA) have been awarding the degree of Doctor of Philosophy
(Ph.D.) in Engineering/ Science/ Humanities and Social Sciences/ Management to a candidate who successfully
completes the stipulated Program of Research.
The Program of Research and the governing regulations are formulated by the SENATE and duly approved
by the Board of Governors of the Institute. The Board can modify or change the structure, the governing and
regulations etc. from time to time.
A candidate to be awarded Ph.D. degree has to submit a thesis embodying the findings of his/her
research work carried out in this program. The thesis should make an original contribution of high quality to the
advancement of knowledge as judged by the experts in the relevant area.
A candidate becomes eligible for the award of the Ph.D. degree after fulfilling all the academic requirements
prescribed by the SENATE of the Institute.
The award of the Ph.D. degree shall be made upon the recommendation of the SENATE of the Institute and
after approval by the Board of Governors of the Institute.
A candidate may pursue Ph.D. in one of the following departments of NITA:
Bio Engineering
Civil Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Electronics and Communication Engineering
Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Production Engineering
Chemistry
Mathematics
Physics
Management, Humanities & Social Sciences
The requirements may vary from time to time, as per decision of competent authority.
2.Categories of Ph.D. Scholars
The Institute admits Ph.D. scholars under the following categories:
2.1.Regular (Full-Time with Scholarship) (R), Regular (Full-Time self-financed) (W) and Full-time Centrally
Funded scholars (CF)
These are scholars who work full time for their Ph.D. and may receive assistantship from the Institute or
fellowship from MHRD (now MoE)/CSIR/UGC or any other recognized funding agency. GATE score is a
mandatory criterion for this category of scholars for making themselves eligible for receiving scholarship during
the tenure of Ph.D.
A candidate who does not possess a GATE score may self-finance, and will not be entitled to any scholarship.
Candidates must satisfy the other existing criteria for admission in Ph.D
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 121 ---
programme. Such scholars will be known as Regular (Full-Time self-financed) (W).
A candidate having valid award letter of fellowship from Central Government funding agency (such as, CSIR/
UGC/ DST/ DBT/ ICMR etc.) may apply for admission to the Dean (AA) throughout the academic year. Under
such cases, the minimum qualification will be as per the academic eligibility criteria for admission at NIT
Agartala. Such scholars will be named as Full-time Centrally Funded scholars (CF).
2.2 Sponsored (Full-Time) Scholars (S)
A candidate in this category is sponsored by a recognized R&D organization, Educational Institute, National
Institute, Govt. organization or Industrial organization for doing research in the Institute on a full time basis.
He/ She should have at least two years of working experience in the respective field. He/ She will not receive
any financial support from the Institute. Sponsorship letter [Form-1(A)] should be attached with the application.
Sponsored Research scholar/candidate nominated by Government of India under a Cultural Exchange
Scholarship Program, Foreign scholar or a scholar admitted under an MOU (Full-time).Such candidates will be
governed by the regulations of the Regular (full time) candidates.
2.3 Project Staff (P)
This category refers to the candidates who are working on sponsored projects in the Institute and admitted to
the Ph.D. program. The duration left for the project at the time of admission should be at least 2 years. Such
scholars will not get any financial assistance in the form of stipend or contingency from the Institute during the
entire tenure of Ph.D. even if the project period expires. Such scholars after admission will be governed by the
regulations of the regular candidates.
2.4 Part-Time Scholars (A)
This category refers to the candidates who can attend classes at the Institute without staying at the Institute
premises. The Institute will neither provide any financial assistance towards pursuing Ph.D. nor provide
accommodation in any form (hostel or quarter) to such scholars.
In case the candidate is employed in a regular position, a No Objection Certificate from the Head of the
Institute/Organization in which he/she is employed [Form-1(B)] must be enclosed at the time of application.
2.5 External Registration (X)
This category refers to candidates employed in R&D/Academic organizations having adequate facilities for
carrying out research in the relevant fields. The research work leading to the Ph.D. degree may be carried out
largely under the supervision of a permanent employee with a doctorate degree belonging to the organization
of the candidate. Such supervisor will be called as Local Supervisor.However, the overall guidance and advice
will be provided by a faculty member of the Department in which he/she is registered. Such supervisor will be
called as Institute Supervisor. The appointment of the local Supervisor is to be reported to the Chairman
SENATE through Dean (Academic) for final approval. Sponsorship certificate from the Head of the organization
where the candidate is employed [Form 2] must be enclosed at the time of application. No financial assistance
from the Institute will be provided to such scholars. These candidates will be governed by the regulations of the
part time candidates.
2.6 Institute Employees (I)
Institute employees (teaching or non-teaching) may be sponsored as part-time scholars by the Director, on
recommendation of the Head of the Department of the employee. To be considered under this category the
applicant must be a permanent/regular employee of NIT Agartala with a minimum service of 3 years. A No
Objection Certificate from the Head of the Institute must be attached at the time of application. The applicant
needs to execute a bond
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 122 ---
with the Institute as per Institute norms/guidelines. These candidates will be governed by the regulations of the part
time scholars.
2.7 QIP Scholars (Q)
These category of scholars have to meet the criteria laid down by QIP and are admitted based on their performance in
the interview conducted by NIT Agartala. Scholars admitted in such category should meet the qualification as laid
down in rule 3.5.
2.8 Foreign Scholars (F)
Self-Financing foreign nationals including NRIs must produce a valid research visa at the time of seeking admission to
the Ph.D. program. If admitted, they will be governed by such regulations and regulations as may be framed by the
Government of India and NITA from time to time. These scholars will be governed by the regulations and regulations of
the Regular scholars.
3 Minimum Qualifications
The list of eligible disciplines in which the minimum educational qualifications have to be obtained as per rule 3.1 to 3.6
provided by each department, which is/ are updated from time to time. Additional and stiffer criteria than the minimum
educational qualifications as laid down in rule 3.1 to 3.6 may be set by the Departmental Selection Committee from time
to time for short listing candidates to be called for interview and or test.
Inter-disciplinary research areas, which may be pursued by the research scholars for the Ph.D. degree and the
corresponding eligible disciplines given by the Departments.
3.1 Admission to Ph.D. in Engineering
Scholars for admission to Ph.D. Program in Engineering Departments must satisfy one of the following criteria:
3.1.1 Master Degree in Engineering/ Technology or equivalent in an appropriate area with a minimum CGPA of 6.5 out of
10 point grading system or equivalent 60% marks. Preference will be given to GATE qualified candidates.
3.1.2 Bachelor Degree in Engineering/Technology from a centrally Funded Technical Institute with an excellent
academic record and with a CGPA of at least 9.0 or equivalent 85% marks. The candidate must have a valid Gate score
tenable for the year of admission and have to carry out the course work as is mentioned in clause no. 11.4
3.1.3 Master degree in relevant science discipline with a good academic record and of exceptional merit are eligible for
the relevant Engineering discipline with minimum CGPA of 6.5 or more out of 10 or at least 60% marks. Preference will
be given to GATE qualified candidates.
3.2 Admission to Ph.D. in Science
Scholars for admission to Ph.D. Program in Science Departments must satisfy one of the following criteria:
3.2.1 Master degree in Sciences with a good academic record with a minimum of 60% marks (or equivalent or 6.5 CGPA
in a 10 point grading system) or 55% (6.0 CGPA out of 10) with a GATE score or UGC/CSIR-NET/NBHM tenable for the
year of admission. Preference will be given to GATE/NET qualified candidates.
3.2.2 Master degree in Engineering/Technology or equivalent is eligible with a good academic record with a minimum
CGPA of 6.5 out of 10 point grading system. Preference will be given to GATE qualified candidates.
3.2.3 B.Tech/ B.E degree from a centrally funded technical Institute in India with a minimum CGPA of 9.0 on a 10.0
point scale or equivalent or 85% with a valid GATE score.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 123 ---
3.3 Admission to Ph.D. in HSS
3.3.1 Scholars for admission to the Ph.D. program in Management, Humanities & Social Sciences (MHSS)
Department must have a Master degree in relevant discipline (as per the advertisement) with a minimum of 60%
marks or equivalent or 6.0 CGPA in a 10 point grading system or 55% (5.5 CGPA out of 10) with a UGC/CSIR-
NET/NBHM tenable for the year of admission. The relevant discipline of research will include English;
Economics; Commerce; Finance; Foreign Trade; Business Management; Geography; Rural Management &
Development; Sociology and others as per requirement of the Department, which will be notified from time to
time. Preference will be given to NET qualified candidates.
3.4 Admission to Ph.D. in Management
3.4.1 MBA/P.G. Diploma in Management of 2-year duration with 60% marks (or a CGPA of 6.0 in 10 point scale).
Preference will be given to GATE / NET qualified candidates.
3.5 Institute Employees/Research scholars under QIP/Research Scholars under External Registration /
Research scholars working under part-time category
3.5.1 For Research Scholars in the above categories, the minimum educational qualifications are the same as
prescribed for full time research Scholars in 3.1, 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4 for admission to the Ph.D. program in the
respective categories. However, GATE score or CSIR / UGC JRF or Lectureship / NBHM / JMET / CAT /
AIMA or equivalent qualification as applicable for regular full time research scholars may not be required in
these cases
3.6 Foreign Scholars
3.6.1 Foreign nationals can only register as regular full-time scholars. Foreign nationals with degree from Indian
Universities will be treated at par with Indian nationals for admission purposes. Foreign nationals with foreign
degrees must meet the minimum educational requirements as given in rule 3.1 to 3.4 equivalent to an Indian
Master's degree in the relevant disciplines. In addition, they should have a valid GRE/ GMAT /GATE /JMET/
CAT/ XAT/ MAT/ ATMA/ UGC or CSIR/ NET and a score in TOEFL/ IELTS or equivalent examination.
4 Admission Procedure
4.1 Admission to the Ph.D. Program of the Institute will normally be in the months of January and July every
year. For the admission in the month of January, an advertisement will be issued in the beginning of the month
of October and for admission in the month of July, an advertisement will be issued in the month of April in local
dailies, National dailies and Institute Website.
4.1.1 JRF/SRF appointed under a sponsored project may be allowed to be inducted into a Ph.D. program, in the
category of Project Staff, irrespective of an open advertisement, subject to fulfillment of the minimum
qualifications as laid down in various sub-clauses of clause 3.
4.1.2 Such candidates may apply to Dean Academic for permission to enroll in a Ph.D. program. The application
should be forwarded by the principal investigator (PI) of the project to the office of the Dean Academic after
informing Dean Research & Consultancy (R&C).
4.1.3 Dean Academic will set up a committee in consultation with Chairman SENATE, which will evaluate the
aptitude and knowledge of the candidate(s) to carry out research by conducting a written test and/or
interview. If found suitable, the committee will recommend the candidate to take admission. The candidate will
take admission at the beginning of a semester so as to be eligible to register the allotted course works
4.2 The faculty member interested in supervising Inter-disciplinary Research under the umbrella of a
department has to prepare the area of research and eligibility criteria and send to
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 124 ---
Academic Section by the beginning of October and beginning of April for admission in the month of January
and July respectively.
4.3 Eligible candidates possessing the minimum educational qualifications and satisfying additional criteria, as
set by the departments from time to time, will be called for a test and/or interview by the Academic section of
the Institute. Foreign candidates/NRIs (seeking admission in the category as per 2.8) may be allowed to appear
in an online test and/or attend the interview through video conferencing from outside India.
4.3.1 Admission to all the categories of scholars (2.1 to 2.8) is granted on the basis of the cumulative marks
obtained in the interview/admission test and weightage of academic performance. Preference will be given to
GATE / NET qualified candidates.
4.3.2 The Departmental Selection Committee will recommend to the Chairman, SENATE the list of selected
candidates based on the merit and a 200 point of all India reservation rosters. Reservation rosters will not be
applicable for foreign students.
4.3.3 Candidates whose selection is approved by the Chairman, SENATE will be admitted to the Ph.D. program
of the Institute after payment of the prescribed fees.
4.4 In the case of candidates looking for external registration, the following additional conditions are to be
satisfied:
4.4.1 The candidates have to be in residence at the Institute for at least one semester or more (depending on
the course work allocated by the DC) during his/her Ph.D. program. The candidate will have to produce a No-
objection certificate from his/her organization/Institute so that he/she can complete his/her residential
requirements at NIT Agartala.
4.4.2 The candidate must submit full details of the facilities relevant to the research program available in the
organization where he/she is employed, duly certified by the sponsoring authority and approved by the Dean
(Academic) or any competent authority approved by the SENATE.
4.4.3 The candidate will have to submit a certificate from the sponsoring authority that required facilities will
be made available by the organization.
4.4.4 In the case of these scholars the Bio-data of the Local Supervisor should be submitted for consideration
of Departmental Postgraduate Program Committee (DPPC) and for the approval of the SENATE.
4.4.5 When in residence, a scholar has to reside on campus in the designated hostel / house. Exemptions will be
granted by the competent authority only in rare cases, if justification provided by the scholar is found proper.
5 Financial Support
5.1 The Regular candidates (eligibility as per clause 2.1) are eligible for a scholarship as per MHRD (now MoE)/
Institute norms.
5.2 Scholars with fellowship tenable at the time of admission from CSIR/UGC/NBHM/QIP or any other
organization recognized by the Institute will also be permitted.
5.3 Scholars receiving assistantship from the Institute or from any other funding agencies will be required to
perform 8 hours of academic duties per week or any other duty to be assigned to them by the departments
from time to time
5.4 Extension of scholarship will be subject to the recommendation of the concerned doctoral committee
(DC) and HOD based on the satisfactory performance of the scholar in research and in the assigned
Departmental duties. Progress will be evaluated by the DC on the basis of
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 125 ---
written report and/or presentation.
5.5 Scholarship of any category will be stopped once the scholar submits provisional thesis or changes the
category from Regular (Full-time with scholarship) to any other or Cancels the admission.
5.6 No financial assistance from the Institute will be available to scholars of following category:
Regular (Full-Time self-financed), Part time, Institute Employee, QIP and Foreign Scholars. Project staff
will get funding from project as per regulations, but will not get any additional assistance from the Institute
even if the project period expires.
6 Leave Regulations
6.1 A Ph.D. scholar is eligible for 30 days leave in a year, including Casual Leave, Saturdays, Sundays or
holidays during the leave period are counted towards leave, except for prefixed or suffixed holidays. He/she
will not be entitled to semester breaks, summer and winter vacation.
6.2 Medical leave to the maximum of 10 days may be granted to a Ph. D. Scholar over and above 30 days of
admissible leave under special circumstances.
6.3 A Ph.D. scholar is eligible for 180 days of maternity (in case of female) or 15 days of paternity leave (in
case of male) as applicable only once during the entire period of her/his Ph.D. program. Such leave will be
sanctioned by the Dean Academic if recommended by the Supervisor and forwarded by the HoD. The scholar
has to produce a certificate from Senior Medical Officer /Medical Officer of the Institute.
6.4 Academic leaves: To attend conferences/ seminars/ workshops/ trainings/ short-term courses, a
maximum of 20 days of leave is permissible in an academic year.
6.5 In exceptional cases Chairman SENATE may grant extra leave on case to case basis only on prior sanction
basis.
6.6 Absence without obtaining prior sanction of leave will be considered as an act of indiscipline and shall
entail reduction of scholarship on a pro rata basis, besides any other action that may be decided by the
Institute.
6.7 Any absence over and above the prescribed limit of admissible leave shall entail deduction from the
scholarship, besides other actions as may be decided by the Institute.
6.8 Head of the Department (HoD)/ Dean Academic sanctions leave (for clause 6.1, 6.2 & 6.4) on
recommendation by the Supervisor. In absence of supervisor any member of DC may recommend.
7 Supervisor(s)/ Joint supervisor(s)
7.1 A regular/permanent faculty of NIT Agartala who is a Professor/Associate Professor/ Assistant Professor
with a doctoral degree will be recognized as a Supervisor. A Supervisor should have published 3 SCI/ SSCI
journals/ Granted Patents to be eligible to supervise his/ her first scholar at NIT Agartala. The
regular/permanent faculty members of MHSS Department (HSS and Management) should have published 3
articles in SCOPUS indexed journals (Q1 & Q2 only) to be eligible to supervise his/ her first scholar at NIT
Agartala. (Amended in 43rd SENATE).
7.2 The faculty, of the department where the scholar is admitted, to whom the scholar is initially entrusted to
carry out the research activities will be called as a Supervisor (qualifications of the faculty will be as per
7.1).Depending on the need of research a Co-supervisor or a Joint-supervisor (refer to 7.3) may be allowed to
supervise along with the existing supervisor. This
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 126 ---
will be allowed not later than 4 semesters after admission of the scholar. The Co-supervisor will be a faculty,
with qualifications as laid down in clause 7.1, from the department where the scholar is admitted or any allied
department of NIT Agartala or any Institute of repute. A scholar, at any point of time, may work under the
supervision of a maximum of two faculties. The eligibility criteria as mentioned in clause 7.1 will be applicable for
Co-/ Joint- Supervisorship also.(Amended in 43rd SENATE).
7.3 The following categories of persons, who have a Ph.D. degree, are permitted to be associated with the
Ph.D. program of a scholar as a Joint Supervisor along with a Supervisor from the department where the
scholar is admitted.
(i) Faculty members of the Institute, with doctoral degree, nearing superannuation with less than 3 years of
service left at the Institute.
(ii) Faculty members, with doctoral degree, of the Institute as Emeritus/ Contract/ Adjunct or Scientific-
Officer/ Officer.
(iii) A faculty of NIT Agartala (refer 7.1) after superannuation, if gets reappointment in NIT Agartala, may act
as a Joint-supervisor
(iv) Such joint supervisors upon getting regular appointment in NIT Agartala will be considered as co-
supervisor as per rule 7.2.
(v) A person having very high academic achievement nationally/internationally.
(vi) Scientist(s) from industry other than those in the category of Local Supervisor (See 8.3 as below).
7.4 In case due to demise/ retirement/or any other reason, a supervisor/co-supervisor/joint-supervisor is
unable to supervise a scholar, the DC may choose a replacement from the Department. In case the scholar is
being guided by two faculties, the DC may allow the scholar to continue with one only. In case a faculty
(supervisor/co-supervisor/joint-supervisor) resigns from NIT Agartala, she/he may be allowed to continue as a
joint-supervisor. However, she/ he must be attached to any academic or research institution
7.5 In exceptional cases when a faculty, who was a sole supervisor of a scholar, leaves the Institute or is
unable to be a guide the scholar as per 7.2 and no suitable faculty is available in the concerned department to
supervise the scholar in the area where he/she is working, a scholar may be allowed to choose a supervisor
from any allied department of the Institute. The scholar shall be associated with and under the control of the
department giving admission, throughout the Ph.D. course. The DPPC chairman of the concerned department
has to seek permission from the chairman SENATE, through Dean (AA), before such a faculty, from an allied
department, can be allowed to guide the student. The permission should be sought with proper justification in
favour of the competence of the supervisor from an allied Department, to guide the scholar in topic relevant to
the Department of admission of the scholar. The justification should be in terms of Ph.D. thesis guided or
research paper published or both. The final decision is subject to the approval of Chairman SENATE. In the
course of Ph.D. studies such scholars shall not divert the area of research relevant to the Department of
admission.
7.6 At any point of time if the sole supervisor of a scholar leaves the Institute after the synopsis seminar, then
HOD of the department where the student has registered will take care of all activities during submission of the
thesis requesting the sole supervisor to visit the Institute at a convenient date for fulfillment of the submission
of the thesis. In such case, HOD may act as an administrative supervisor.
7.7 A supervisor for Ph.D. scholars may be appointed from foreign / Indian universities within the time limit
approved by the SENATE within 24 months of admission as a Joint Supervisor. For recommendation of the
Joint supervisor beyond the time limit Dean Academic may consider such requests on case-to- case basis and
approval form chairman SENATE. However, no TA/DA or any other financial benefit will be given to supervisor
from foreign
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 127 ---
university.
7.8 A supervisor of NIT Agartala will be entitled for 2 points, when he/she guides a scholar (of any category)
solely and will be entitled for 1 point for guiding scholar (of any category) jointly with another co-supervisor or
Joint supervisor. The accumulated points for a supervisor at any point of time should not be more than 10
(excluding project scholars).
7.9 Rule 7.8 will not be applicable in counting of points if the supervisor is a principal investigator or co-
investigator of a project and a scholar working under such project enrolls in Ph.D. under such supervisors under
Project category. If the category of such scholar changes to Part time due to any reason the rule 7.8 will be
applicable.
7.10 One faculty member will not be allowed to guide more than 4 Ph.D scholars with Institute fellowship as
supervisor. However, in exceptional case the faculty member can guide more than 4 Ph.D scholars with
Institute fellowship provided it is approved by the SENATE.
7.11 The external guides / supervisors in guiding the Research Scholar of NIT Agartala to be limited to only
faculty members of Centrally Funded Technical Institutes (CFTIs) and persons of eminence especially in
conducting research. (Amended as approved in 53rd BoG meeting)
8 Appointment of Supervisor(s)
8.1 The Departmental Post Graduate Program Committee (DPPC) will appoint Supervisor(s) of Ph.D. scholars
after obtaining mutual consent from scholar and supervisor(s).All the desiring supervisors may attend the
selection viva to interact with the candidates and know their field of interest The committee may exercise such
mechanisms so that the desiring supervisors are allotted one scholar each, with a maximum of 2 scholars during
any admission session.
8.2 The Supervisor(s) should be identified and appointed at the earliest and within one month from the date of
admission.
8.3 Scholars in external registration category shall have one Supervisor from the Department (Institute
Supervisor) and one from the parent organization (Local Supervisor).
9 Doctoral Committee (DC)
9.1 The Head of the concerned Department (HOD) where the Scholar is enrolled in Ph.D. program will be the
Ex-officio Chairman of the DC. If the HOD happens to be the supervisor/co-supervisor of a scholar, of his
department, the senior most Professor/ previous HOD will be nominated by the Chairman, SENATE as
Chairman of that DC. To monitor the progress of research of the students, there will be a committee called
Doctoral Committee (DC).
9.2 If the HOD of any Department does not have Ph.D. degree, the Chairman SENATE will decide a suitable
Chairman of DC (s) of the Department on case to case basis.
9.3 Supervisor(s) as per regulations 7 & 8.
9.4 Members: Two faculty members (one from the Department where the scholar is enrolled and the other
from allied department).
9.4.1 Additional Members (if desired): Staff in the post of Scientific-Officer /Officer from NIT Agartala/ other
educational Institution / Industries with a Ph.D. in relevant area may be nominated as member for Ph.D.
scholars.
9.5 All the DC members from Academia must have Ph.D. degree.
9.6 The DC members for Interdisciplinary scholars to be nominated as follows:
9.6.1 Chairman same regulations 9.1 & 9.2.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 128 ---
9.6.2 Two Supervisor (One from the Department where the scholar is enrolled and other from the allied
Department).
9.6.3 Two Members (One from the Department where the scholar is enrolled and other from the allied
Department).
9.6.4 One DC memberfrom the departmentother than the departments of the supervisors.
9.7 The DC will be constituted by the DPPC with subsequent approval of Dean Academic and Chairman
SENATE. The DC must be constituted within 1 month from the last date of admission to Ph.D. program. During
the period of one month from the date of closing of admission, the DPPC will perform the duties of DC. DPPC
chairman will act as DC chairman during this period.
9.8 The supervisor(s) may convene the DC meetings as and when necessary in addition to the mandatory
meetings, if applicable
9.9 If for any reason the DC of a scholar is not constituted within a period of one month from the closing date
of admission to Ph.D. program by the department in which the scholar is admitted, the Chairman DPPC of the
said department will be held responsible.
9.10 All the notices regarding DC meetings will be issued by DPPC Chairman.
9.11 Chairman of a particular DC cannot be any other member of that DC. This is implemented from 2021-22
academic session.
10 Change of Doctoral Committee
10.1 The Chairman SENATE may permit a scholar to change his/her Supervisor(s) for valid reasons on the
recommendation of the DPPC through Dean Academic.
10.2 To change a member of DC other than a supervisor, the DPPC chairman has to approach the Dean
Academic for approval after taking consent from the existing DC members.
11 Course Work
11.1 The DC will normally meet within 15 days from the date of its formation to interview the scholar and
prescribe the course(s) to be completed by the scholar.
11.2 This rule is applicable to all categories of scholars to be admitted in NIT Agartala to pursue Ph.D.
11.3 For Scholars with M. Tech/M.E./ or equivalent degree, pursuing Ph.D. in Engineering or in Science or in
Humanities or Management should take a minimum 12 credits (from the current compulsory/elective courses of
the PG programs being offered by the Institute) including a compulsory credit courses of Research
Methodology, Research and Publication Ethics and non-credit course Intellectual Property Rights, and as
applicable from time to time. In all the subjects, with credit, the candidate has to obtain at least “C” Grade.
Otherwise she/he will have to repeat the same subject(s). If the scholar fails in his/her second attempt to
secure the prescribed grade in one subject out of the assigned subjects in the course package, the admission
of the candidate will be cancelled and the name will be struck of the rolls.
11.4 The GATE qualified fresh B.Tech candidates will have to complete the course works of at least 24 credits
in addition to compulsory courses, as applicable from time to time. Such courses are to be selected from the PG
courses being offered by the departments. Also, in all the subjects the candidate has to obtain at least “C”
Grade. Otherwise she/he will have to repeat the same subject(s).If the scholar fails, in his/her second attempt,
to secure the prescribed grade in a subject out of the assigned subjects the admission of the scholar will be
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 129 ---
cancelled and the name will be struck off the rolls.
11.5 The candidate who has Master Degree in Science but would like to register for Ph.D. in
Engineering/Technology Discipline will have to complete at least 24 credits in addition to compulsory courses,
as applicable from time to time. Such courses are to be selected from the PG courses being offered by the
departments. Also, in all the subjects the candidate has to obtain at least “C” Grade. Otherwise she/he will
have to repeat the same subject(s).If the scholar fails in his/her second attempt to secure the prescribed grade
in a subject out of the assigned subjects in the course package, the admission of the scholar will be cancelled
and the name will be struck off the rolls
11.6 Candidates with M. Phil. Degree will be treated at per rule 11.3
11.7 If any course work/ subject is recommended by the DC for a Scholar and the subject is not
offered/included by any Post Graduate Department, then the DC may frame syllabus for that particular
course/subject and a teacher will be assigned against the course [Henceforth it will be called as independent
study (IS)] and the Scholar may be instructed to prepare and study as per the syllabus framed by the
committee. Such IS subjects will be not be considered while counting of total credits of course works.
11.8 Courses to be undertaken in rule 11.2 to 11.6 will be governed by the PG regulations of NITA as may be
framed from time to time. However, if it is found that any coursework recommended by the DC is not offered
by NIT Agartala in its PG programme, the scholar may take such course from Massive Open Online Courses
(MOOCs) funded by MHRD, Govt. of India.
11.9 UG courses suggested by DC, as a pre-requisite of a PG course or otherwise, may be allowed as additional
courses. Such subjects will be considered credit less.
11.10 Minimum duration of course works for scholars of all categories with external registration /Part-time is one
semester.
11.11 Academic section (Exam) will issue certificates to the Ph.D. scholars on successful completion of all the
allotted credit based course works.
11.12 The ‘second attempt' mentioned in the clause no. 11.3 to 11.5, includes the supplementary examination of
any subject in the coursework allotted by the DC. All the Ph.D scholars can apply to the examination section
with necessary fees in order to appear in the supplementary examination. PG regulation of NIT Agartala will be
followed about awarding of grade in this aspect.
12 Comprehensive Examination
The objective of the Comprehensive Examination is to test the general capability of the research scholar and
the breadth of his/her knowledge in his/her discipline and areas related to his/her field of research
12.1 To test the overall competence and academic preparation of the scholar in the relevant field and specific
area of the research program, a Comprehensive Examination will normally be held after the completion of 2
semesters.
12.2 Scholars governed by 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.7 and 2.8 may appear for comprehensive examination after the
completion of 2 semesters. All the course work as allotted by the DC to the scholar must be completed before
the Comprehensive Examination. Such scholars will required to complete the comprehensive examination before
completion of 4th semester.
12.3 Scholars governed by 2.4, 2.5 and 2.6 may appear for Comprehensive Examination after the completion
of 3 semesters. All the course work as allotted by the DC to the scholar must be
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 130 ---
completed before the Comprehensive Examination. Such scholars will required to complete the comprehensive
examination before completion of 5th semester.
12.4 Generally, the Comprehensive Examination shall be conducted by a Comprehensive Examination
Committee, consisting of the Doctoral Committee members of the scholar. The DC may also include other
faculty members of the Institute along with the existing DC members of the scholar.
12.5 In exceptional cases, due to compelling reasons noted in the file, Dean Academic may allow to bring a
change in the existing approved committee of comprehensive examination.
12.6 The mode of Comprehensive Examination (oral or written or both) as well as the modus operandi (common
to all students in a Department) will be decided by the DC and will be intimated to the students.
12.7 A scholar failing in the Comprehensive Examination in the first attempt will be given a second chance to
appear for the examination after 1 month but within 6 months from the date of the first Comprehensive
Examination. If the scholar fails in the second attempt also his/her admission shall stand cancelled.
13 Registration for Ph.D. Program
13.1 After the successful completion of the Course Work and Comprehensive Examination, the candidate has to
submit a plan of work defining the research problem identified and course of investigation done and proposed
to be pursued. An assessment of the current status of problem area and a justification for the work has to be
prepared at this time. The scholar will make an oral presentation of the above proposal at a meeting of the
Doctoral Committee for approval. On the recommendation of the DC, the Dean (AA) will issue a memo
confirming the registration of the candidate.
13.2 Such presentation will be called REGISTRATION SEMINAR.
13.3 The topic of the research once decided by the committee will be binding for all, in verbatim, except
rewording or cosmetic changes.
13.4 In case of change in the area or addition/ deletion of work, than that proposed during registration
seminar, the scholar has to appear afresh for a registration seminar.
14 Progress Review
14.1 Every scholar has to submit a written report to the supervisor on the research carried out. The supervisor
will convene a DC meeting (Refer to Rule 9.8 & 9.10) to discuss the progress of the scholar. Progress report will
be signed by the DC members & sent to the office of the Dean Academic at the beginning of every semester,
during semester registration schedule. This is mandatory for scholars of all categories.
14.2 The doctoral committee of each scholar of an Academic Department will make assessment of the progress
of the scholar in his/her research work during each semester based on his/her written report as per 14.1. After
due assessment, the DC will send a report to the Dean Academic in Ph.D Form no. 11.
14.3 Continuance of registration and award/continuance of scholarship/Research Assistantship will be based
on the recommendation of the Doctoral Committee.
14.4 In case of research scholars under external registration or working on a part-time basis, the Doctoral
Committee will pay particular attention to the quantum of effort put in by the scholar towards doctoral studies
and progress.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 131 ---
14.5 Inadequacy of effort/progress can be a reason for cancellation of registration.
15 Semester Registration
15.1 Scholars of all categories in the Research Program will have to register each semester in person on the
stipulated date till the submission of their provisional thesis.
15.2 All the Research Scholars have to pay a semester registration fees and mess fees (if applicable) each
semester, during semester registration dates.
16 Change of Category
16.1 In case a regular scholar (as per clause 2.1) gets employment in any organization/ institution, she/ he may
continue her/ his research work as a part-time scholar provided she/ he submits NOC from the organization/
institution where she/ he is employed. The DC may then recommend the change of category to the Dean
Academic.
16.1.1 However if the regular scholar, mentioned in 16.1, has submitted his/her synopsis or the DC certifies that
the scholar has carried out all the assigned objectives after registration seminar then the scholar may be
allowed to remain as Regular scholar. The scholarship of such a scholar will be stopped.
16.2 If a part-time scholar gets employment or changes organization/ institution, she/ he will have to submit
NOC from the organization/ institution where she/ he is employed.
16.3 A scholar seeking conversion from a part-time scholar to regular (full time) scholar with scholarship,
he/she will have to undergo fresh admission process by applying as a full time scholar against regular Institute
notification for admission to Ph.D. course. The final selection is subject to the recommendation of the Interview
board and subsequent approval of the authority. However, following terms and conditions will be applicable to
such scholars.
16.3.1 Such conversion should be allowed not later than 2 semesters from admission as a Part-time scholar.
16.3.2 The scholar should not be in receipt of any scholarship/salary from any source.
16.3.3 A part time scholar shall be permitted to apply for such a conversion only once during the course.
16.3.4 The scholar shall retain his/her part-time research scholar status if not considered for the conversion.
16.3.5 If selected as a full-time scholar with scholarship, the scholar need not pay any admission fee and shall
pay the regular semester fee only for the current semester.
16.4 A scholar, whose category changes, will be governed by the Ph.D. regulations of the changed category.
This will be in effect from the date, as approved by the Chairman SENATE.
16.5 The Doctoral Committee (DC) and the course work already completed, publications by the candidate
would be retained and carried to the new category.
17 Cancellation of Registration
The Ph.D. registration of a scholar is liable to be cancelled for any of the following reasons:
17.1 Consistent lack of progress in research supported by a report from DC.
17.2 Discipline
i) The conduct of the scholars within and outside the precincts/ premises of the Institute shall be in a manner
befitting to the scholars of an institution of national importance.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 132 ---
ii) As per the order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, ragging in any form is banned: acts of ragging will
be considered as a gross indiscipline and will be severely dealt with.
iii) The following acts of omission and/or commission shall constitute gross violation of the code of conduct and
are liable to invoke disciplinary measures:
a) Lack of courtesy and decorum; indecent behavior anywhere within or outside the campus.
b) Willful damage or stealthy removal of any property/ belongings of the Institute/ Hostel or of fellow
scholars.
c) Possession, consumption or distribution of alcoholic drinks or any kind of hallucinogenic drugs.
d) Mutilation or unauthorized possession of library books.
e) Noisy and unseemly behavior, disturbing studies of fellow scholars
f) Hacking in computer systems (such as entering other person’s area without prior permission, manipulation
and/or damage of computer hardware and software etc.)
g) Any other act of gross indiscipline.
iv) Commensurate with the gravity of the offence, the punishment may be reprimand, fine, and expulsion from
the hostel, debarment from an examination, rustication for a specified period or even outright expulsion from
the Institute.
v) For an offence committed in (a) a hostel (b) in department or in a classroom and (c) elsewhere, the Warden,
the Head of the Department and the Dean of Students Welfare, respectively, shall have the authority to
reprimand or impose fine.
vi) All cases involving punishment other than reprimand shall be reported to the Chairman, disciplinary
Committee.
vii) All major acts of indiscipline, which may have serious implications on the general body of scholars, and/or
which may warrant a uniform and more formalized nature of investigation, shall be handled by the Scholars
Disciplinary Committee, appointed by the SENATE.
viii) Cases of adoption of unfair means in an examination shall be reported to the Dean of Academic Affairs for
taking appropriate action.
ix) In the event of a major punishment, the aggrieved party shall have the right to appeal to Chairman,
SENATE.
x) Scholars are expected to observe norms of good behavior, regulations and regulations prescribed and
orders issued by the university authorities of the Institute from time to time.
17.3 Non-submission of the thesis within the stipulated period.
17.4 Non-conformity with the regulations of the program.
17.5 Giving false information at the time of application/admission.
17.6 If a scholar fails to enroll in two consecutive semesters, his/her registration in the Ph.D. program will be
automatically cancelled.
17.7 A scholar may temporarily withdraw from his/her Ph.D. Program for a maximum up to 4 (four) semesters.
This will require a prior permission of the Dean (Academic) with the concurrence of the DC. The tenure of the
maximum duration of the Ph.D. program as mentioned under sub clauses of clause 19 will be inclusive of the
withdrawal period.
18 Minimum Duration for submission of Synopsis
The minimum duration of the Ph.D. Program will be as follows:
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 133 ---
18.1 Ph.D. scholars of the following categories Regular (governed by 2.1), Sponsored (full-time), Project Staff,
QIP Scholars, and Foreign scholars with Post Graduate degrees as eligible degree qualification must register
for a minimum of four semesters to be eligible for the submission of synopsis of Ph.D. thesis.
18.2 Ph.D. scholars of category Regular (full time), governed by regulation 11.4 or 11.5 must register for a
minimum of 6 semesters in order to be eligible for the submission of a synopsis of Ph.D. thesis.
18.3 Ph.D. scholars of category Part-time, External Registration, and Institute Employees must register for a
minimum of six semesters in order to be eligible for the submission of a synopsis of the Ph.D. thesis.
18.4 Chairman SENATE on recommendation of Dean Academic and with the concurrence of the DC of a
scholar, in special cases, may decrease the duration by assigning reasons for such action.
19 Maximum Duration of the Ph.D. Program
19.1 The maximum duration of the Ph.D. Program will be 10 semesters for full time (Regular governed by 2.1,
Sponsored, QIP, Foreign Scholar and Project Staff) scholars.
19.2 The maximum duration of the Ph.D. Program for Scholars of category Part-time, External Registration and
Institute Employee this period will be 14 semesters.
19.3 Maximum duration for female Ph.D. scholars who avail maternity leave, is 10 semesters + number of days of
maternity leave (not exceeding 180 days).
19.4 The period for all the categories of Ph. D. scholars may be extended by 2 semesters each time up to a
maximum of 4 semesters on recommendation of DC and with the approval of the Chairman SENATE in each
case.
20 Synopsis of Thesis
20.1 Prior to the submission of the synopsis the research scholar must publish or get acceptance of paper in at
least 3 (three) SCI/SSCI/Web of Science/Scopus indexed publications, out of which two papers must be in
SCI/SSCI indexed journals. Publication of one SCI paper may be waived off in lieu of the published patent. The
published patent should be in line with the Ph.D work which is required to be certified by the DC.
AHCI/ SCIE journals will be treated at par with SCI/SSCI indexed journals for publication of research
papers by the Ph.D scholars.
20.2 The scholar will make presentation of his/ her thesis work before the DC. The DC, if satisfied, permits the
scholar to submit the provisional thesis. As a prerequisite to submit provisional thesis, the scholar will first
forward one spiral-bound copy of synopsis along with a PDF format of the synopsis in electronic media to the
office of the Dean Academic.
20.3 The soft copy of the synopsis will be sent to the examiner selected by the Chairman SENATE or his
nominee. If the examiner does not respond, a reminder may be sent to him. In case the examiner fails to
respond, the synopsis may be sent to the second examiner.
21 Panel of Examiners
21.1 The DC will forward a panel of 6(six) examiners (3 examiners from within the country and 3
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 134 ---
examiners from abroad) through the Chairman DC to the Dean (Academic) in Ph.D form no.- 14 for necessary
action and approval of the Chairman, SENATE. In the panel, some examiners must be from the Institute of
National Importance/ IIT/ IISc/ NIT/ TIFR/ Research Organizations/Universities of repute.
22 Submission of Provisional Thesis
22.1 Within three months of the submission of the synopsis the scholar shall submit one copy of the provisional
thesis in pdf format and three copies of his/her provisional thesis, along with two copies of Clearance
certificate (Form 17) for submission of provisional thesis” to the Dean (Academic) through Chairman DC and
HOD of the department where scholar is enrolled.
23 Examiners of the Thesis
23.1 The thesis shall be referred by the Dean (Academic) to two examiners (from one of the reputed Institution
of the country and another one from a reputed Institution outside the country as mentioned in regulation 21.1)
chosen by the Chairman, SENATE or his nominee from the panel of examiners recommended by the DC.
24 Thesis Reports
24.1 The examiners are expected to send the reports on the thesis within two months from the date of receipt
of the thesis.
24.2 If an examiner does not send the report within two months, a reminder will be sent by the Dean
Academic. If the report is not received within two months, from the date, the thesis was sent, the Chairman,
SENATE will refer the thesis to the next examiner from the approved panel. The previous examiner will be
informed accordingly.
24.3 If one of the two thesis examiners does not recommend the thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, the
Chairman, SENATE may refer the thesis to another examiner from the approved panel.
24.4 If an examiner suggests resubmission of the thesis, the scholar is allowed to resubmit the thesis after due
revision within the time frame to be decided by the Dean (Academic) in consultation with Chairman DC based
on the magnitude of the suggested revision.
24.5 If both examiners do not recommend the thesis for the award of a Ph.D. degree, the matter may be
referred to the SENATE for an appropriate decision.
24.6 If both examiners recommend for award of a Ph.D. degree, the DC will consider the reports and
recommend the conduct of the Oral Examination.
24.7 In all other cases, not covered by the above Regulations the matter will be referred to the Chairman
SENATE for consideration.
25 Oral Examination Board (OEB)
25.1 The following is the composition of the Oral Examination Board (OEB):
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 135 ---
25.2 In exceptional cases, due to compelling reasons noted in the file, the Dean (Academic) may allow to
bring a change in the existing approved OEB.
25.3 The OEB conducts the defense of the thesis by the candidate ensuring that he/she answers all the
written queries of the thesis raised by the examiners satisfactorily. The oral examination will be open to all
interested in the field.
25.4 If the OEB finds the performance of the scholars unsatisfactory, the scholar will be asked to
reappear for another oral examination at a later date (not earlier than a month and not later than six
months from the date of the first oral examination).
25.5 If the OEB evaluates the performance of the Research Scholar as unsatisfactory on the second
occasion also, then the matter will be referred to the SENATE for a decision.
25.6 The OEB may also recommend revisions to be made in the final version of the thesis after taking into
consideration the suggestions of the examiners who evaluated the thesis and the discussion at the oral
examination. The Chairman of the OEB shall forward the report to the Dean (Academic) certifying that the
recommended revisions by the OEB, if any, have been incorporated in all copies of the final thesis.
25.7 In all cases, OEB shall send the report to the Dean (Academic) regarding the performance of the
candidate.
26 Award of Ph.D. Degree
26.1 If the performance of the research scholar in the Oral Examination is satisfactory, he/she will be
awarded a Ph.D. degree on the recommendation of the SENATE and with the approval of the Board of
Governors of the Institute.
27 Power to Modify
27.1 Notwithstanding all that has been stated above, the SENATE/BOG has the right to modify any of the
above regulations from time to time.
28 Ph.D.Forms
The different forms to be filled up and submitted by the scholar/ DPPC Chairman/ DC during the course of
the Ph.D. program is detailed below. The documentation in the different forms related to DPPC/ DC/
Scholars should be supported by appropriate notice/ minute of meeting etc. as applicable. Chairman
SENATE may permit Dean (Academic) to change (Add/Delete/Alter) any/all of the Ph.D. forms if there be
a need to do so.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 136 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 137 ---
29 Sequence of Events in the Ph.D. Curriculum
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 138 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 139 ---
Rule
associ
Relate
Ste Activities in Responsibi ated
Events d Ph.D. Time
ps the event lty with
Form
the
event
Declaration to After all necessary corrections
Student
Submission of Final be given by the are incorporated as suggested
13 1 prints the Form 18
thesis author of the by oral exami-nation
form online
thesis. committee.
30 Exceptions in the Ph.D. Curriculum
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

--- Page 140 ---
Prospectus Team
1. Dr. Suman Deb, Asstt. Professor (CSE) & Asso. Dean(System), Chairman
2. Dr. Dipankar Sarkar, Asstt. Professor (CE), Member
3. Dr. Pinku Debnath, Asstt. Professor (ME), Member
4. Dr. Joyashree Das, Asstt. Professor (EE), Member
5. Dr. Priyanka Choudhury, Asst, Professor(ECE), Member
6. Dr. Rupam Gupta Roy, Asst, Professor (EIE), Member
7. Dr. Nabarun Biswas, ,Asst, Professor(PE), Member
8. Dr. Bibhab Kumar Lodh, Asstt. Professor(CHE), Member
9. Dr. Biswanath Bhunia, Asstt. Professor(BE), Member
10. Dr. Santanu Chakraborty, Asstt. Professor(PHY), Member
11. Dr. Manas Roy, Asstt. Professor (CHY), Member
12. Dr. Sayanta Chakraborty, Asstt. Professor (Math), Member
13. Dr. Anuradha Nongmaithem, Asstt. Professor(MHSS), Member
14. Dr. Arindam Majumder, Asstt. Professor (ME), Member
15. Dr. Mrinmoy Majumder, Associate Professor (PE), Member
16. Dr. Vidyut Dey, Associate Professor (PE), Member
17. Dr. Kamalesh Debnath,Asstt. Professor (ECE), Member
18. Mr. Shanmuk Gangula, Asst. Registrars (Acad), Member
19. Mr. Krishanu Gupta, Asst. Registrars (Acad), Member Convenor
Designed by Pixels Club
1.Anandita Raj 2nd Year, ECE
2.Aemili Das 2nd Year, EIE
3.Dhruba Bhattacharya 4th Year, ME
4.Chhitij Ranpal Damai 2nd Year, CE
5.Prashant Ambati 4th Year, CSE
6.Srishant Kumar 2nd Year, CSE
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA