
--- Page 1 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC
nitadeanacademic@gmail.com

No. NITA.5/(22-Acad) /Registration Fee(UG,PG,Ph.D)/2024-25(Vol-IX)
NOTICE

Sub :- Semester Registration for Odd Session 2024-25 (July - December 2024) for all the ON ROLL students
(except B.Sc- B.Ed).

 

        

Date: 24./07/2024

Online Semester Registration Dates:
Date of opening of on line fee payment linkin MIS : 05/07/2024
Date of closing of on line fee payment linkin MIS: i it fi

Physical Registration Dates:
a. 15 to 18" July 2024, without a fine.
b. 19 to 24‘ July 2024, a fine of Rs.5,000/-will be imposed
c. 24 July 2024 to 6" Aug, 2024, a fine of Rs.10,000/- will be imposed.
d. Beyond 6 Aug, 2024 no registration will be allowed and he/she has to wait for next semester registration.

Commencement of classes:
Classes will be commenced from 19/07/2024 (Friday).

Process of Semester Regis ion:

1. All the students/Scholars are hereby informed to pay their semester fee in full to make them eligible for subject
registration during Autumn Semester. Students/Scholars are instructed to pay their semester fees based on the
amount displayed in their MIS account

2. The requisite fees for a semester in an academic program can be seen after logging into the MIS account at
https://mis.nita.ac.inand then by visiting the link (Online Payment SBI E-PAY> Pay Tuition Fee).

No other way of payment will be allowed, except for students availing of any loan.

Bank Loan Cases:° .

3. Students who pay semester fees through loan should inform their loan sanctioning authority to transfer the
Academic fees/Hostel Fees from their bank to their Virtual Account Number (VAN) that is linked to the

Institute. The VAN account number of each student is linked to an account of the institute with IFSC
SBIN0O011491.

E Students can find the VAN information in the General Info section of their MIS account.

ii To see this information, the Students should log in to their MIS account and visit the link
Academic Admission> Update Information.

iii. After successful transfer from the bank to the Institute, the students should then update their loan

details and upload supporting documents to their MIS account Academic>Admission> Upload
Document

Students, after completing the formality indicated above, will have to register the subjects provisionally
through the MIS link (Academic Registration> Semester Registration). All core subjects will be pre-

selected by default. Students have to select their electives and click on the submit button to complete their
provisional registration.

After completion of the above steps, students need to mandatorily report physically to their Faculty
Advisor/Supervisor and/ or UG/PG Coordinator (as applicable) of their Department as per the schedule
mentioned in point 8 below. The Faculty Advisor/Supervisor and/ or UG/PG Coordinator(s) will then verify
the fee payment and subjects selected on their MIS portal and select physically reported to YES to complete the
semester registration process for the student.

6. Only after physical reporting is completed, students will be able to download the Semester Registration Slip.

  

 

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala, Tripura-799046, India, website- WWw.nita.ac.in


--- Page 2 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

pail t OF Saeed meee aetogaeanaa

 

7. They will seek the signatures of the concerned Faculty aaviser separ and/ or UG/PG Coordinator (as
applicable) to the Institute at the appropriate spaces provided and submit the same at the department after
retaining a copy with themselves for future reference.

8. Year-back students must register for those subjects in which he/she has an ‘F’ grade in the respective semester
and the same to be informed to the UG Co-Ordinator.

9. All Faculty Advisors and departmental Coordinators are hereby informed to ensure smooth
conduction/completion of the physical registration process looking after the proper selection of Elective
Subjects.

10. Regarding hostel related matters, students may contact the Office of the Chief Warden.

NOTE:

 

i. Academic Coordinators to monitor continuously the status of Registration of students of their respective
departments.

ii. For any technical issues during the Registration/ payment process, students may contact the MIS section during
10:00 AM- 5:00 PM (working days) and may e-mail to mis.agartala@iitms.co.in/ nitmisagt@gmail.com.

This is issued with the approval of the Competent Authority.

\

LA cow
(Prof. Rajib < Sans

Dean (Academ %

Copy to:-

1. PS to the Director, NITA, for kind information of the Director.
The Registrar, NIT Agartala for kind information.
All HODs and W/S, for kind information and necessary action.
The Asso. Dean (Exam), for kind information.
The Asso: Dean (UG), for kind information.
1st year Co-ordinator for kind information and necessary action.
The Dy. Registrar(Academic) for kind information and necessary action
The Asstt. Registrar(Academic) for kind information and necessary action
The Faculty-In-Charge, MIS, for kind information & necessary action.
10. The System Administrator for kind information with a request to upload the notice in the Institute website.

Dean Fie

PHNAnNAWHN

”

ere EE SSE SEN
Barjala, Jirania, Agartala, Tripura-799046, India, website- www.nita.ac.in

 
