
--- Page 1 ---
TST HEN eh PIT SPT
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC

nitadeanacademic@gmmail.com

 

 

 

a Innes neces eee
No. NITA.5/(22-Acad)/Registration Fee(UG,PG,Ph.D)/2024-25(Vol-IX) /J -1 368 Date: 2.6./12/2024
NOTICE

Sub:-Semester Registration of UG, Dual Degree, PG, Ph.D and B.Sc-B.Ed Even Session 2024-25 (Jan -June
2025) for all the ON ROLL students (except 1‘ year).

Online Semester Fee Payment without fine: 26/12/2024 to 09/01/2025.

Physical Registration Dates:
a. 7 to 9thJanuary 2025, without a fine.

b. 10% and 13 to15' January 2025, a fine of %5,000/-will be imposed

c. 16January 2025 to 5t* February 2025, a fine of 310,000/- will be imposed.

d. Beyond 5 February 2025 no registration will be allowed and he/she has to wait for next semester
registration.

Commencement of classes:
Classes will commence from 07/01/2025 (Tuesday).

Semester Fee Payment:
1. Semester fee payment(without bank loan)

a. Login into the MIS account at https://mis.nita.ac.in and then use the link(Online Payment SBI E-
PAY~>Pay Tuition Fee).

b. No other way of payment will be allowed, except for students availing of any loan.

2. Semester fee payment (with bank loan):

a. Students while they seek a loan should inform their loan sanctioning authority to transfer the
Academic fees/Hostel Fees to their Virtual Account Number (VAN) linked to the institute account
at IFSC SBIN0011491.

b. Students can get their VAN, in their MIS account by visiting the link Academic Admission>
Update Information.

‘c. After the successful transfer of the loan to the VAN, the students should update their loan details
and upload supporting documents in their MIS account Academic>Admission>Upload
Document.
3. Semester fee payment (from unused excess amount):

a. Contact MIS over email at nitmisagt@gmail.com. Mention the enrollment number and fee
adjustment in the subject of the email.

b. Provide details of adjustment in the email. Attach the necessary documents to the email.

Subject Registration
1. After payment of semester fees register the subjects provisionally through the MIS link(Academic>
Registration> Semester Registration).
2. All core subjects will be pre-selected by default.
Students have to select their electives and click on the submit button to complete the subject selection.
Year-back students must register for those subjects in which he/she has an ‘F’ grade in the respective
semester and the same to be informed to the UG Co-Ordinator.

=

Physical Registration
1. After subject selection, the students have to mandatorily report physically to their Faculty
Advisor/Supervisor and/ or UG/PG Coordinator (as applicable) of their Department.

Haw

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala, Tripura-799046, India, website- www.nita.ac.in


--- Page 2 ---
TSS Welt TIM SET
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC

nitadeanacademic@gmail.com

 

 

a a Tee NT Tv ne eS enTnN
2. The Faculty Advisor/Supervisor and/ or UG/PG Coordinator(s) will verify the fee payment and the

ii.

lil.

selected subjects on their MIS portal and select Physically Reported to YES to complete the semester
registration process for the student.

3. After physical reporting, students should seek the signature of the Faculty Advisor on a printed Semester

Registration Slip, and keep it as a record for the future.

4. Physical registration is not mandatory for the 8* Semester B.Tech and final semester MCA students who

have been granted a 6-month internship at the behest of the CCD or any other source.

5. Year-back students must register for those subjects in which he/she has an ‘F’ grade in the respective

semester and the same to be informed to the UG Co-Ordinator.

NOTE:

CCD and Academic section will forward the names of the students, who have been issued an NOC for internship
to the MIS section to ensure semester registration for such students.

Academic Coordinators to monitor continuously the status of Registration of students of their respective
departments.

For any technical issues during the Registration/ payment process, students may contact the MIS section during
10:00 AM- 5:00 PM (working days) and may e-mail nitmisagt@gmail.com.

All Faculty Advisors and departmental Coordinators are hereby informed to ensure the smooth
conduction/completion of the physical registration process looking after the proper selection of Elective
Subjects.

Regarding hostel-related matters, students may contact the Office of the Chief Warden.

This is issued with the approval of the Competent Authority.

sN\

u
Dean (Academic) u '
NIT Agartala

Copy to:-

1.

we oNau WN

PS to the Director, NITA, for kind information of the Director.

The Registrar, NIT Agartala for kind information.

All HODs and WSS, for kind information and necessary action.

The Asso. Dean (Exam), for kind information.

The Asso. Dean (UG), for kind information.

1st year Co-ordinator for kind information and necessary action.

The Dy. Registrar(Academic) for kind information and necessary action
The Asstt. Registrar(Academic) for kind information and necessary action
The Faculty-In-Charge, MIS, for kind information & necessary action.

10. The System Administrator for kind information with a request to upload the notice in the Institute website.
11. Notice Board

A] ¢
Dean (Academic) \ I )
NIT Agartala

 

 

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala,Tripura-799046, India, website- www.nita.ac.in
