
--- Page 1 ---
R E S E A R C H
A R E A S I N S PAC E
RESPOND
CAPACITY BUILDING & PUBLIC OUTREACH (CBPO)
I n d i a n S p a c e R e s e a r c h O r g a n i s a t i o n
Bengaluru
May 2025

--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
RESEARCH
AREAS IN SPACE
A Document for
Preparing
Research Project Proposals
RESPOND & AI
Capacity Building & Public Outreach (CBPO)
ISRO-HQ, Bengaluru
May 2025

--- Page 4 ---
Technical Guidance
Shri. G Harikrishnan, Director, CBPO, ISRO HQ
Dr. M A Paul, Associate Director, RESPOND & AI, CBPO, ISRO HQ
Technical Support and Compilation
Shri Nishant Kumar, Deputy Director, CBPO, ISRO HQ
Smt Nirupama Tiwari, Deputy Director, CBPO, ISRO HQ
Shri M Uday Kumar, Programme Manager, CBPO, ISRO HQ
For any queries please contact
Shri. G Harikrishnan
Director, Capacity Building & Public Outreach (CBPO)
Indian Space Research Organisation HQ
Department of Space
Government of India
Antariksh Bhavan
New BEL Road
Bangalore 560094
Dr. M A Paul
Associate Director, RESPOND & AI, CBPO
Indian Space Research Organisation HQ
Department of Space
Government of India
Antariksh Bhavan
New BEL Road
Bangalore 560094
E-mail: respond@isro.gov.in

--- Page 5 ---
ada aTahtet saa Usa Indian Space Research Organisation

f Space
f ay Department o
ara Rony Government of India
a i sie aR Antariksh Bhavan
pls New BEL Road, Bengaluru - 560 094, India
= e
Lat § uct te, areTw — 560 094, AA Sunt ISPuO Telphone: +91-80-2341 5241 / 2217 2333
gar 1 +91-80-2341 5241 / 2217 2333 Fax : +91-80-2341 5328

tera : +91-80-2341 5328 e-mail : chairman@isro.gov.in
secydos@isro.gov.in

SI. @. ARTA / Dr. V. Narayanan
AA Chairman

Message

ISRO undertakes research and development of launch vehicles, satellite
and applications for meeting the societal needs. Towards this, ISRO
actively fosters partnerships with industry and academia to advance
space research and technology development. The ISRO-Academia
partnership is one of the important pillars in India's space research
ecosystem, designed to foster innovation, indigenous technology
development and skill-building. It helps to bridge the gap between

 

fundamental research and mission-driven engineering. As ISRO unveils
the Research Areas in Space — 2025, reaffirming ISRO’s commitment to fostering a research
environment that is forward-looking, inclusive and aligned with the dynamic needs of the nation
and the evolving global space landscape.

The "Research Areas in Space - 2025" document details the organization's current and
forthcoming research and development priorities. It is the aggregation of various research domains
and serves as a blueprint for academic institutions aiming to align their research endeavours with
ISRO's strategic objectives. From building robust and efficient launch systems to advancing
satellite platforms that support critical communication, navigation and remote sensing services, to
expanding our capabilities in planetary exploration and deep space science - the research agenda
is both ambitious and grounded in practical national imperatives.

Catering to the Space Vision 2047, this document comprises of six major research areas Launch
Vehicles, Satellite Technology, Human Space Flight Centre, Earth Observation, Space Sciences,
Space Policy and management. The Research Areas in Space - 2025 document is not merely a
technical reference - it is an invitation to researchers, scholars, engineers, entrepreneurs and
students to contribute meaningfully to India's space journey. It calls upon our scientific community
to think boldly, act responsibly and innovate with purpose. Together, let us chart new paths, unlock
new knowledge and build a spacefaring future that uplifts every citizen and reflects the aspirations
of our nation.

    

May 04, 2025 (St. at. / Dr. V. Narayanan)


--- Page 6 ---


--- Page 7 ---
WN arethat ayaa asa Indian Space Research Organisation

Fey Department of Space
arate feart Ray Government of India

Ot AAR Antariksh Bhavan
Aaa War New BEL Road, Bengaluru - 560 094, INDIA
ALA g Vet Us, Aes - 560 094, WA sun SPO Tel (Off) : +9180 2341 6356
Ray : +91 80 2341 6356 Fax : +9180 2347 5298
thera: +91 80 2341 5298 E-mail : scientificsecretary@isro.gov.in

UH, Worst feet /M. Ganesh Pillai
agihrs ara, gat / Scientific Secretary, ISRO

Preface

The "Research Areas in Space - 2025" document represents a
pivotal step in advancing India's space exploration and technology
development, building upon the legacy of the Indian Space Research
Organisation (ISRO) and its comprehensive vision for harnessing
space for national and global benefit. As a successor to the
"Research Areas in Space - 2023" document, this edition
encapsulates ISRO’s evolving priorities, emerging technological @@
paradigms, and the growing role of academia and industry in shaping
the future of space research.

 

In 2025, ISRO continues to champion innovation in space science, technology, and
applications, aligning with its mission to address national needs while contributing to global
scientific advancement. This document serves as a guiding framework for academic
institutions and researchers, particularly through ISRO's Space Technology Cells
(STCs) and Regional Academic Centres for Space (RAC-S) and Space Technology
Incubation Centres (STICs). It outlines critical research domains—spanning Launch
Vehicle technology, Satellite Technology, human spaceflight, earth observations and
space-science —that are poised to drive ISRO’s ambitious programs, including
Gaganyaan, Chandrayaan-4 & 5, Next Generation Launch Vehicle, Venus Orbiter Mission
and Bhartiaya Antariksh Station.

The dynamic landscape of space research demands collaborative efforts to tackle
complex challenges from sustainable space operations to cutting-edge remote sensing
and artificial intelligence applications. By fostering partnerships with premier academic
institutions and encouraging innovative proposals, ISRO aims to catalyze transformative
solutions that align with its programmatic goals. This document not only highlights current
and upcoming R&D requirements but also underscores SRO's commitment to nurturing
a vibrant ecosystem of scientific inquiry and technological excellence. The execution of
R&D projects at academic institutions and engaging students in these projects can be a
stepping stone towards their future engagements with Indian Space Programme.

We invite professors, researchers, scientists, and technologists to engage with the
opportunities outlined herein, contributing to India’s journey toward becoming a global
leader in space exploration and technology. Together, we can unlock the vast potential of
space to address pressing challenges on Earth and beyond. aS

April 30, 2025 (wa. Tots fireet) M. Ganesh Pillai)

       
 

ada aeaheeat AAI WS / Indian Space Research Organisation


--- Page 8 ---


--- Page 9 ---
General Instructions
1. “Research Areas in Space” is a comprehensive document highlighting ISRO’s major
programmes, current and upcoming R&D requirements of ISRO. This document will
exclusively cater to the advanced research requirements of ISRO wherein Space Technology
Cells (STCs), Regional Academic Centre for Space (RAC-S) and Space Technology Incubation
Centres (S-TICs) established at various IITs/NITs and premier institutes across the country can
select and generate R&D proposals. The faculty of these institutes are encouraged to submit
their project proposals in these diverse research areas.
2. To enable the faculty to prepare suitable proposals of relevance to space programme, a
detailed list of R & D areas /sub areas/topics and a brief write up about the topic have been
given in this document.
3. The concerned ISRO/DOS centre interested in the research topic is given in brackets after
the areas/sub areas/problems.
4. In the case of STC’s the proposals are invited only from the faculty of the same institute and
it is to be submitted to the convener of STC’s only. Whereas, in the case of RAC-S/STIC, the
faculty from any academic institute of the concerned region can also submit the proposals
to the Coordinators of RAC-S and STIC’s based on the call for proposals by the respective
institutes (list of RAC-S/STIC coordinators provided in Annexure-4 & 5). Further, the submitted
proposals will be subjected to critical evaluation by ISRO/DOS Centres. The proposal will be
evaluated on the basis of novelty, methodology, approach, deliverables, experience of the
PI in the subject area, duration of the project, budget etc.
5. The Projects having envisaged outcome as a product or process of business/commercial
potential shall be submitted through S-TICs.
6. The evaluation reports of the proposals received from the ISRO/DOS centres will be further
reviewed by the Joint Policy Committee (JPC) of STC , Joint Policy Management Council (JPMC)
of RAC-S and Joint Management Committee (JMC) of S-TICs before its recommendation for
funding support.
7. The age limit for the Principal Investigator is below 65 years (sixty-f ive) including the project
period.
8. One hard copy and a soft copy of the proposal shall be submitted to the respective STCs/
RAC-S/ S-TICs.
9. “Application for Grant of Funds including the project proposal” and “Form-C” shall be
submitted in the prescribed formats only. Formats are given in the Annexure -1 & 2.
10. Conveners of STC/RAC-S/S-TICs shall submit a soft copy of the proposal to the respective
ISRO/DOS centre. The addresses and e-mail ids of Respond Coordinators of respective ISRO/
DOS centres are given in Annexure -3.
11. For any other information kindly visit ISRO
https://www.isro.gov.in/academia.html

--- Page 10 ---


--- Page 11 ---
CO N T E N T S
Sl. No. Programmes and Areas Page No
Launch Vehicle
A. Mechanisms for Extra-terrestrial Missions 1-1
B. Structural Dynamics 1-3
C. Design of Launch Vehicle. AI, Machine learning 3-3
D. Materials and Manufacturing 3-5
E. Propellants, Polymers and Chemicals 5-12
F. Energy System 12-13
G. Formal Verification 13-13
H. Model-based Software Development Framework 13-13
I. Sensing Systems 14-14
J. Radio Sounding system development for Planetary Ionospheric 14-14
K. Superconductor based Electromagnetic Cage 14-15
L. Avionics-Communication Systems 15-15
Superconductor based electromagnetic field generator for
M. 15-15
gravity generation
N. Aerospace Engineering 15-17
O. Aerodynamics 17-19
P. Propulsion 19-19
Q. Aerothermal 19-20
R. Photonic Thruster 20-20
S. Range Operations 21-24
T. Solid Motor Performance & Environmental Test Facility 24-24
U. Vehicle Assembly and Launch Facilities 24-24
V. Liquid Propulsion 25-27
W. Advanced Propulsion Systems and Control Electronics 27-29
X. Sensors & Transducers for Liquid Propulsion 29-31
Y. Materials & Manufacturing for Liquid Propulsion Systems 31-34
Human Space Programme
A. Human Research, Space Medicine and Space Biology 35-40
B. Microgravity Research 40-42
C. Human Spaceflight & Advanced Technology 42-55
Satellite Technology
A. SATCOM and Navigation Payloads 57-85
B. Satcom & Satnav Applications & Associated Technologies 85-117
C. Antenna Systems 117-119
D. Electro-Optical Sensor Technology 119-150
E. Microwave Remote Sensors 150-160
F. Signal & Image Processing & Data Product 160-167

--- Page 12 ---
Electronics & Microelectronics Design, Fabrication & Testing
G. 167-183
Technologies
H. Semiconductor Technology for Microelectronics Design 184-184
I. Mechanical Engineering Systems 184-203
J. Systems Reliability and Safety 203-209
K. Cyber Services & Information Technology 209-214
L. Mission Control 214-218
M. Communication and Power Area 218-221
N. NavIC Ground Segment Related Research Works 221-222
O. Radar Systems 222-231
P. Satellite Communications/Spacecraft Operations 231-231
Q. Satellite Communications/Electro-Optical Sensor Technology 231-231
Earth Observations
A. Geoscience 233-242
B. Geospatial Data portals and Information Science 242-246
C. Urban Planning and Urban Climate Studies 246-248
D. Signal & Image Processing & Data Product 249-256
E. Atmospheric Science and its applications 256-259
F. Physical Oceanography (Development of Blue Economy) 259-261
G. Geophysical Parameters and Applications 261-263
H. Marine Biology and Ecosystem 263-264
I. Development of Applications Techniques 264-267
Applications of Remote Sensing in Agriculture, Forestry &
J. 267-273
Ecosystem
K. Air quality, Atmospheric Trace gases and Aerosols 273-276
L. Aerial Remote Sensing using UAV 276-277
M. Atmospheric Dynamics and Coupling 277-278
N. Weather and Climate 278-281
O. Signal and Data Processing 281-281
P. Radar and Lidar Instrumentation for Atmospheric Probing 281-283
Q. Calibration and Validation 283-284
Space Sciences
A. Space Situational Awareness 285-290
B. Planetary Geology 290-291
C. Planetary Science, Astrobiology, SAR Remote Sensing 291-296
D. Space and Atmospheric Sciences 296-300
E. Solar Physics 300-304
F. Astronomy & Astrophysics 304-308
G. Space Instrumentation 308-316
H. Laboratory Study of Astro Materials 316-317
I. Study of terrestrial analogues of Moon and Mars 317-317
J. Payloads for upcoming planetary missions 317-318
K. Geosciences 318-325

--- Page 13 ---
L. Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 325-327
M. Emerging Areas In Theoretical Physics 327-330
N. Weather and Climate 330-331
O. Astronomy & Astrophysics 331-332
P. Space Instrumentation 332-335
Q. Emerging Areas in Theoretical Physics 335-336
R. Space weather 336-336
S. Satellite Remote Sensing of Earth and Planetary Atmosphere 337-338
T. Design and Development of Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer 338-338
U. Development of CNT based nonwoven fabric sheet 339-339
SPACE POLICY & MANAGEMENT
A. Space Policy and Economy 341-342
B. Space Insurance 342-343
C. Management 343-347
D. Artificial Intelligence for Education 347-348
Annexure-1 349-353
Annexure-2 354-355
Annexure-3 356-358
Annexure-4 359-359
Annexure-5 360-360

--- Page 14 ---


--- Page 15 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
LAUNCH VEHICLE
A Area Mechanisms for Extra-terrestrial Missions (VSSC)
A1 Sub Area Percussive Penetration Mechanisms (VSSC)
Design and development of percussion based penetration mechanism for near
zero gravity environments (VSSC)
For extracting relevant sub surface scientific information from Moon, Mars, Asteroids
etc., probes with sensors have to inserted into the soil of the planetary body. (Similar to
ChaSTE in Chandrayaan 3). When conventional penetration mechanisms are used, the
weight of the lander in the planet limits reaction force available and thereby limiting
the depth of penetration. In such cases, Percussion based penetration systems can be
A1.1 used to penetrate deeper, while limiting the reaction load. This is done by introducing
a counter mass, percussion mass and springs to the system, in addition to the probe
mass. The system exhibits dynamic behaviour, and continuous stroke of probe can be
achieved with much lower reaction.
The objective of the research work is to model the system and arrive at the configuration
of the systems, for various gravity environments and demonstrate it in horizontal or near
horizontal orientation in earth. The model should also take into consideration the force
exerted by the planetary soil on the probe.
B Area Structural Dynamics (VSSC)
B1 Sub Area Structural Dynamics and Vibration Control (VSSC)
Design and Development of Microgravity Active Vibration Isolation System (MAVIS)
for Space Station Experimental Payloads (VSSC)
Research platforms employed on-board the space station for conducting microgravity
experimentsare very sensitive tovibrations caused by space station activities. MAVIS is
an active isolation system for the research platforms from these disturbances.
The proposed systemis a basic demonstration of an Active Vibration Isolation System
B1.1
(AVIS), which will be suitably scaled up further to suit the requirements of
research platforms being used for space station. The AVIS consists of a base platform
and a payload platform, which are connected by means of suitable motors/actuators,
isolators and precision accelerometers as shown in the figure below. A suitable
control strategy to be adopted for the design of the controller to limit (1/10 times) the
vibration disturbancesreaching the payload platform in the frequency range of 1-25 Hz.
The experiment is planned to demonstrate on a laboratory level.
B2 Sub Area Finite Element Code Development (VSSC)
Dynamic Response of LV structures under impact loading (VSSC)
B2.1 The proposal aims to get the code for carrying out the dynamic response analysis due to
impact loading Structures considered will be composite, nanocomposite and sandwich
1

--- Page 16 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
structures. Material deformation and failure to be included. Code to carry out the analysis
is expected to be delivered as part of the project. Code to be validated with the existing
experimental results or new experiments may be carried out to validate the results.
Software should include following material models (but may not be limited to)
• Elastic material model with Failure
• Elastoplastic material model with Failure
• Orthotropic material model with Failure
• Fiber Composite material model with Failure
• Anisotropic Plastic Material model with Failure
• Piecewise Linear Plasticity model with Failure
• Crushable Orthotropic material model with Failure
• Mooney-Rivlin Rubber Model with failure
• Foam Material (Polypropylene)
• Foam Material with Hysteresis
Software should include following models (but may not be limited to)
• Constant Modulus Shear Model
• Linear Viscoelastic Shear Model
• Polynomial Shear Model
• Hydrodynamic Yield Model
• Mohr-Coulomb Yield Model
• Von Mises Yield Model
• Johnson – Cook Yield Model
• Tanimura-Mimura Yield Model
• Zerilli-Armstrong Yield Model
• Rate Power Law Yield Model
• Polynomial Yield Model
• Steinberg – Guinan Yield Model
Software should include following Material Failure (but may not be limited to)
• Max Plastic strain failure model
• Max Equivalent Stress and Minimum Time Step Failure Model
• Jhonson-Cook Failure Model
• Max Equivalent Stress Failure Model
2

--- Page 17 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
Topology Optimization of Launch Vehicle Structures (VSSC)
Using topology optimization launch vehicle structures can be optimized for minimum
mass meeting frequency constraint. Also optimum fiber orientation and varying
ply thickness can be achieved through this methodology for composite structure.
This proposal involves to develop the methodology of topology optimization for ply
optimisation and perform dynamic response analysis
B2.2
Software should be able to solve following problems (These problems are only for
validation. Software should be General purpose for Topology Optimization)
• Discrete Fiber Angle Optimization of General Shell Structure
• Compliant MEMS mechanism Design
• Topology optimization of plate structure under stress, buckling, frequency and
manufacturing constraints
C Area Design of Launch Vehicle. AI, Machine learning (VSSC)
C1 Sub Area Finite Element Code Development (VSSC)
Software for the Generative design of Launch Vehicle Structures using AI
Generative design is a method of using AI algorithms to generate and evaluate multiple
design alternatives based on input from user. This design process can take many
constraints into account including performance requirements, manufacturing process
and materials to generate optimized designs. This proposal is to develop software for
C1.1
the Generative design of the launch vehicle structures.
• Topology optimization of Cylinder structure under stress, buckling, frequency and
manufacturing constraints
• Topology optimization of Cone Frustum structure under stress, buckling, frequency
and manufacturing constraints
D Area Materials and Manufacturing (VSSC)
D1 Sub Area Metal Joining (VSSC)
Development of technology for friction stir welding using bobbin tool for high
thickness aluminium alloys (VSSC)
Conventionally the friction stir welding of propellant tanks is performed using standard
fixed pin tool. The fixed pin FSW needs rigid backing plate to support the work piece,
D1.1
which adds the complexity especially during cir-seam welding. Also, fixed pin requires
high downward force since it is supported only from one side. The un-even heat
distribution in fixed pin tool leads to increased residual stresses and high chances of
root defects.
3

--- Page 18 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
For the propellant tanks of thickness 12 to 14 mm, bobbin tool FSW technology is
suitable due to the following advantages
a) Elimination of backing plate
b) Reduced welding downward forces
c) More uniform heat distribution
d) Reduced residual stress and distortion
e) Better material flow and weld quality
f) Welding at higher welding speed (low HI)
Work Envisaged:
• Design and development of bobbin tool technology for high thickness aluminum
alloy (AA2219) weldments (12 mm and 14 mm).
• Optimization of bobbin tool (pin and shoulder), downward force and process
parameters on the mechanical properties and defect formation in AA2219 weldments.
• Numerical modelling and experimental validation of bobbin tool FSW for high
thickness weldments. Thermal (temperature profile, heat distribution) and mechanical
aspects (residual stress and distortion) to be studied.
• Detailed mechanical properties (tensile properties at ambient and cryogenic
temperatures-77K) and microstructural characterization of optimized BT-FSW AA2219
welds.
D2 Sub Area AI/ML in Materials Engineering (VSSC)
Deep Learning based Microstructure and Mechanical Property Correlation in
High-Strength Low-Alloy Steel (VSSC)
This study aims to leverage deep learning techniques for the quantification
of microstructural features, phase fractions, and prior austenite grain size (PAGS) in
high-strength low-alloy steel(0.3C-CrVMo(ESR)/D6AC steel),establishing robust
correlations with mechanical properties.
The research focuses on integrating convolutional neural networks(CNNs) with
D2.1 metallurgical characterization techniques to automate thesegmentation and
quantification of microstructural phases such aspearlite, ferrite, bainite, and martensite.
High-resolution optical and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) - Electron-Back
Scattered Diffraction (EBSD) images will serve as input for deep learning models trained
to classify and quantify phases and grain structures.
• Date generation: Generation of different microstructure (martensite, lower bainite,
upper bainite, pearlite and their mixtures) and corresponding mechanical properties
in high strength low alloy steel through heat treatment (Experiments: 40-50 Nos).
4

--- Page 19 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
• Data Acquisition: Optical and SEM images of 0.3C-CrVMo(ESR)/D6ACsteel samples
subjected to different heat treatments.
• Phase Quantification: Deep learning-based segmentation of ferrite, bainite, and
martensite phases.
• Prior Austenite Grain Size Estimation: Reconstruction using deeplearning models
trained on etched micrographs.
• Mechanical Properties Correlation: Linking microstructural parameters with tensile
strength, hardness, and fracture toughness using machine learning regression
models.
• Validation: Validation will be done using new set of parameters. (Variation - ±5%).
E Area Propellants, Polymers and Chemicals (VSSC)
E1 Sub Area Propellant (VSSC)
Development of a lab scale prilling process for producing spherical ammonium
dinitramide (ADN) oxidizer (VSSC)
Ammonium dinitramide (ADN) is a ‘green’ high energy oxidizer envisaged for use in
solid and liquid propellants. The as-synthesised ADN is needle shaped with high aspect
ratios which makes them not suitable for use in solid propellants. In order to use ADN
for solid propellants, the as-synthesised ADN has to be converted into spherical particles
by a suitable prilling methodology viz., emulsion crystallization, melt crystallization or
spray crystallization so as to get ADN with two different average particle sizes
viz., 60±20µ and 200±50µ with aspect ratios > 0.9. The spherical particles of ADN shall
also be coated suitably with organic or polymeric material like ‘stearic acid’, ‘cellulose
derivatives’, PMMA, PVA etc.,/inorganic material like ‘aerosil’ to prevent agglomeration
and moisture ingression. The coating thickness shall be in the range of 2-5µ.
Work Envisaged:
E1.1
1. To evolve a suitable lab-scale process for producing spherical particles of ADN from
as-synthesised ADN. Sample quantities of ADN for spheroidisationstudies shall be
collected from VSSC/ ISRO.
2. Characterization of the produced spherical particles viz., particle size distribution,
density and shape characteristics.
3. To identify suitable coating methodologies for the spherical ADN particles and
undertake coating trials & characterization of the coated particles.
4. Subsequently, VSSC/ ISRO shall undertake the ignitability studies of coated ADN and
compatibility with propellant ingredients viz., binder, plasticizer, metal fuel etc., to
functionally characterize the spherical ADN particles.
5. Demonstration of both processes (spheroidization and coating of ADN) in a scale of
100-200g to VSSC.
5

--- Page 20 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Theoretical modelling of cracking reaction of Endothermic fuel in the wall
channel of scramjet combustor of an air breathing propulsion engine based on
experimental studies (LPSC)
Air breathing/hypersonic propulsion is vital for advanced Space Transportation System
for low cost access to space. As the air breathing engine propelled vehicle speeds
increase (Mach no.>6), thermal problems multiply because of the effect of the increase
in stagnation temperature of the inlet air. Although thermal effects can be mitigated to
some extent by improved materials and passive cooling techniques.
However, sustained long duration hypersonic flight in atmosphere requires substantial
heat sink. As an effective solution, the fuel with high heat sink capability itself can be
used as a coolant for engine elements. Since preheating of the fuel is desirable before
combustion, it can be circulated through heat transfer passages embedded inside the
hot scramjet engine parts. Thus, the fuel removes the excess heat from the engine
and in process; it is regenerative heated to the desired temperature. Traditional fuels
use only sensible heat for cooling whereas endothermic fuels (C7-C16, aromatics,
cyclic compound, catalyst, additives etc.) provide cooling through two routes, namely
absorption of sensible heat from combustor wall and through the use of endothermic
cracking reactions of fuel.
The fuel can provide about 50% more heat sink capacity if it undergoes
E1.2
endothermic thermal cracking reactions at high temperature. As per design
requirement the cracking chamber temperature and pressure is in the range of
800-900°C and 30-40 bar respectively. In order to understand the cracking behaviour
of the fuel under the desired pressure and temperature it is necessary to model the
cracking reaction inside the flow channel.
1. Experimental studies need to be conducted for capturing the intermediate for the
cracking reaction for different grades of fuels. Intermediate may be captured through
carrying out cracking reaction in conjunction with Laser/spectrometer. Further, based
on the experimental data a details, a kinetic reaction rate mechanism shall be developed.
The proposed chemical pathways/rate shall be developed as a Chemkin model that can be
clubbed with CFD code for estimating the necessary cracking performance parameters.
2. This proposal also envisages the modelling and performance analysis of heat transfer
and cracking reaction of the fuel though the channels of different dimensions
(Length/Width/Diameter). Configuration of the channel will be provided by VSSC.
3. The modelling of the reaction shall cater the requirement of understanding of
temperature / pressure profile of the channel, cracking profile (conversion vs length
of the channel), product profile (concentration of products like C,C1,C2,C5,C6 etc.
with length), chance of coke formation, heat extracted in the channel, & pressure
profile analysis.
6

--- Page 21 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
4. The study shall be extended for different fuels (JP-7, RP-1, JP-8) with varying
composition. The effect of different kinds of additives (cracking initiators, coke
inhibitor, cetane improvers, ignition delay improves, soot improvers etc.) on the
chemical pathways also shall be studied.
5. Further, a comparative study needs to be conducted to find out the effect of MOC
of channel tubes (SS316, TiO2 coating, Platinum coating, Alumina coating etc.).
A theoretical kinetic shall be attempted to capture the interaction of wall with
different kind of intermediates.
6. Finally, a consolidated study report shall be submitted. The report must contain the
following,
• Details of experiments and experimental set up for capturing cracking mechanism
• A detail chemical pathways for cracking of different fuels JP-7, JP-8, RP-1 etc.
• A spectrum of all the possible intermediates captured through optical sensors.
• A reaction kinetics /chemkin file that can be interfaced with CFD model in COMSOL/
ANSYS FLUENT
• Effect of % of additives on the cracking performance (P,T, coke, species, heat sink,
phase fractions)
• Effect of Geometry on the cracking performance and heat sink performance.
• Effect of tube MOC on the coking and cracking parameters.
A detail CFD model in COMSOL/ANSYS/or .exe format that can predict the cooling
channel performance for a combination of different fuels, additives, & combinations of
tube MOC.
E2 Sub Area Chemicals (VSSC)
Development of high temperature ceramic catalysts for monopropellants (VSSC)
Conventional monopropellant based on hydrazine is catalytically decomposed
using an active metal supported on a ceramic substrate. The use of new high
performance monopropellants viz., ammonium dinitramide (ADN) and hydroxyl
ammonium nitrate (HAN) requires a high temperature tolerant and structurally
resistant catalyst. The combustion temperatures of these monopropellants are
in the range of 1500-1700°C which requires a suitable high temperature ceramic
E2.1
catalyst with a suitable active metal. The proposed catalyst shall essentially consists
of a high temperature ceramic support viz., alumina (heat treated at 1500°C),
hexaaluminate, alumino silicate etc., with an active metal (20-30%) viz., Ir, Pt etc.,
Work Envisaged:
1. To identify and evolve a suitable ceramic support with a temperature capability of
1500-1700oC.
7

--- Page 22 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
2. To undertake shape forming studies to produce granulates of different sizes
viz., 1-2mm, 2-3mm etc.,
3. To carry out impregnation of the ceramic substrates with active metals (20-30%) and
characterization of the catalyst.
4. Demonstrate the process in a lab-scale and supply of the catalyst (50-100g) to VSSC
for evaluation in a thruster.
E3 Sub Area Energetic Materials (VSSC)
Development of Energetic Metal Organic Frameworks (EMOFs) (VSSC)
The development of high perfromance pyros require that energetic materials must
contain high energy and be safe to handle and store. Therefore, significant research in
the domain of energetic materials has been dedicated to the designand synthesis of
high-energy and insensitive materials. However, with the improvement of the energy
level of energetic materials, their safety is always compromised. To adjust the material
structure and coordinate the contradiction between material energy and stability
through an effective combination and reasonable arrangement of chemical bonds and
structural motifs has become the research focus on energetic materials in the world.
E3.1 Energetic Metal−organic frameworks (EMOFs) have gained much attention because of
their stable skeletons, controllable structural designs, and tuneable properties. Since
EMOFs possess the merits of good heat stability and higher performance, have potential
applications in the high energy field by the utilization of highly energetic ligands as
coordination ligands.
It is porposed to take up synthesisof EMOFs having high thermal stability (>250°C) &high
density (>2.0 g/cc). High nitrogen EMOFs can also be synthesized for gas generating
applications.
Will be useful for high performance gas generators, high explosives for applications such
as inflation and separation systems.
E4 Sub Area Characterisation at cryogenic temperatures ≤ 20 K (VSSC)
Cryogenic characterisation of foams and polymers (VSSC)
Liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen is used as cryogenic propellants. Various polymers
such as polyimides and foams are used for thermal insulation, thermal protection
E4.1 purposes in cryogenic tanks and associated systems. It is essential to study the behaviour
and characterisation of such foams and polyimide films at low temperatures to the order
of 20 K and below. It is also proposed to have a cryogenic characterisation facility for the
evaluation of following properties:
8

--- Page 23 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
Materials to be tested Properties to be evaluated
Rigid PU foam Thermal conductivity
Polyimide film Tensile strength
Cryo adhesive Compressive strength
Flexible insulation materials Specific heat
Premoulded foam pad Interface properties
CTE
Visco elastic properties
E5 Sub Area Computational Modelling (VSSC)
Computational Modelling of polyurethane foaming process (VSSC)
• Polyurethane foam process involves complex simultaneous reactions involving
exothermicity. To understand the complexity and kinetics of the reactions
computational modeling will be highly essential. This will also help to predict the
product properties.
• Computational model is to be developed to understand the foam expansion process
for manufacturing applications and how in homogeneity affects the structural
response of the product, including long term stability.
• Study shall include the kinetics determination of the formulation taking into account
E5.1
the variation of isocyanate index, surfactant, catalyst & blowing agent.
• Extent of reaction and viscosity variation during the course of reaction needs to be
predicted for a stipulated kinetics and environmental conditions.
• Computational modelling of foam expansion to design a mould filling process.
• Physical, mechanical and thermal property prediction via the developed model. Effect
of processing conditions on the cell size and final properties may also be studied.
• Prediction of bubble size and bubble distribution may be attempted thus making it
more predictive for foaming and aging.
Validation of prediction with respect to experimental values may be done.
E6 Sub Area Theoretical chemistry (VSSC)
Theoretical analysis about Venus atmosphere’s corrosive effects towards designing
structural materials for missions (VSSC)
Design of materials for futuristic Venus missions is a challenge due to the peculiar nature
E6.1
of the atmosphere. At the Venus surface, the atmosphere consists mostly of CO and
2
N , as well as trace amounts of SO ; H O, CO, OCS, HCl, HF, and H S with a temperature
2 2 2 2
of 467°C and a pressure of 9.2 MPa. Even though a plethora of literature is
9

--- Page 24 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
available regarding the Venus atmosphere and its chemistry. There exist limited reports
regarding the correlation of Venus atmosphere chemistry with corrosion of materials.
A theoretical understanding of the molecular cluster formation, photolytic degradation
of different molecular species in the Venus atmosphere and their interaction with
different structural materials will enable us to understand the material reactions arising
from the trace quantities of corrosive constituents in the Venus atmosphere. This study
will give more insight while designing/processing of structural and electronics materials
that need to operate for months unprotected from the Venus surface environment.
E7 Sub Area High performance Polymers (VSSC)
Development of Polybenzimidazole (PBI) fibers (VSSC)
Polybenzimidazole is a high performance synthetic polymer (capable to form strong
fibers) with exceptional thermal (>500°C) and chemical stabilities and does not exhibit
a melting point. It is prepared by the condensation polymerization of tetramines with
dicarboxylic acids at high temperatures. Ithas limited solubility in solvents, which restricts
the fiber spinning process. The country does not have the technology of PBI fibers.
E7.1
The plan involves
• Supply of PBI polymer in resinous form (Polyphosphoric acid as solvent)/in solid form
by VSSC (100-200 g level)
• Identification of suitable solvent for dissolving PBI to facilitate spinning.
Preparation of PBI fibersusing solution or melt spinning technology by party.
Nonisocyantae polyurethane coating (Antimicrobial coating)
E8 Sub Area
(VSSC)
Nonisocyante polyurethane based biocompatible antimicrobial coating (VSSC)
Antimicrobial coating for space mission is highly anticipated. Here the proposal is
focussing on the development of antimicrobial coatings based on nonisocyanate
polyurethane. The coating should be biocompatible and should not contain any VOC
(solvent free).
The objective of this proposal is to
1. Synthesis of Hybrid polyhydroxyurethanes/ Hybrid non-isocyanate polyurethanes
(HPHU/HNIPU)from synthetic (PDMS based) as well as by using bio-based molecules
E8.1
such as vegetable oils, fatty acids, terpenes etc., via. the synthesis of cyclic carbonate
by the incorporation of CO into an epoxy.
2
2. The synthesis of HPHU by the addition of bio compatible epoxy into cyclic carbonate
followed by reaction with bio based polyamines.
3. The HPHU synthesised by the above mentioned routes will be evaluated for physical,
thermal, mechanical and morphological properties.
The coating realized should be evaluated for microbiological analysis and
biocompatibility and cytotoxic studies.
10

--- Page 25 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
E9 Sub Area Sprayable TPS Application Technology (VSSC)
Development of a reinforced matrix coating system capable of mixing liquid
resin & reinforced material externally to apparatus prior to impact on substrate
(VSSC)
Coating substrates with reinforced resin matrices, such as liquid resins reinforced with
fibers, glass micro spheres, or other reinforcing materials, conventionally requires
mixing the liquid resin with the reinforcing material and then spraying the mixture on
to the substrate. However this is limited due to the low sprayability of the liquid resins
which are typically highly viscous, the limit in attainable coating thickness, and the high
amount of waste material generated.
Pumping of high viscose liquid resin through the lines and nozzle of a spray coating
apparatus is difficult and requires large amounts of energy. In order to reduce energy
requirements and to simplify the spray coating process, the viscosity of the liquid resin
is often reduced by mixing the liquid resin with a solvent. Typically, however, solvents
useful in spray coating processes are generally environmentally hazardous.
Conventional spray coating processes comprise combining a liquid resin, solvents,
E9.1
reinforcing material, and other conventional constituents such as curing agents, biocides,
etc., in a vat to form a mixture. This mixture is then pumped from the vat through lines to
a nozzle where it is atomized and sprayed onto the substrate. Once the mixture has been
applied to the substrate, the solvent is removed there from by the natural evolution of
volatile gas and/or by applying heat to the mixture to fasten the solvent evolution.
The proposal is to design and model an application system where in a high viscous liquid
resinis atomized and dispensed towards the substrate through a standard liquid nozzle
located at the axis of the apparatus and a stream of fluidised (in air) solid filler particle
(viz. Cork powder, glass micro-balloon) is introduced peripherally around the resin jet.
The mixing of reinforcing solid and resin occurs at the exterior of the applicator due to
the local pressure difference prior to the impact on the substrate.
Objectives of the respond project are,
1. Design of a suitable applicator system.
2. Modeling & simulation of the system and optimization of design.
Fabrication of prototype model, demonstration of performance and validation of design.
E10 Sub Area Polymers (VSSC)
Development ofNanofiltration& Reverse Osmosis Membranes for Water Recovery
Systems of Space Habitat (VSSC)
E10.1
Membrane-based water purification system are state of art and highly effect method for
water recovery and reuse from various sources such as
11

--- Page 26 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• Urine (primary source of wastewater).
• Grey water (from hygiene, cleaning & shower).
A combination of reverse osmosis (RO) and filtration technologies along with distillation
& chemical treatment to purify water is used. However a more energy efficient and high
water recovery systems are possible only with cascade of specially designed RO and nano
filtration membranes. Nanofiller based membrane filtration systems are often preferred
over the existing systems to overcome the issues like energy, size and durability and also
to remove heavy metals, organic pollutants and bacteria.
Advantages:
Use of nano materials (CNTs, graphene, Silver nano particle etc.) embedded polymeric
membranes are the most promising options for high-performance, energy-efficient
water purification in space due to their ultra-high permeability, tuneable pore size,
antibacterial properties and anti-fouling properties.
Scope of the work:
To develop a working prototype of an efficient membrane based filtration system using
Nano filtration+ Reverse osmosis membrane (Polyamide thin film composite (TFC) with
integrated aquaporin proteins with polysulfone as support material for purifying soap/
shower water with the following features:
• Capacity of water filtration 30 lit/day
• Water recovery >98%
• Permeate flux high & nearly constant at all times
• Low energy consumption
• Fouling can be reduced or eliminated by physical cleaning (Avoid chemical cleaning)
• Overall weight/mass should be less
F Area Energy System (VSSC)
F1 Sub Area High energy density battery system (VSSC)
Development of Si nanowires infused Graphite anode materials for Ultra high
energy density battery systems (VSSC)
• Silicon remains a promising material for Li ion battery anodes since it provides the
highest known specific capacity (4200 mAh/g Vs. Graphite 372 mAh/g, 10 times).
Presently Si nano material’s as a composite form are commonly used for high energy
F1.1
Li ion batteries designs with limited silicon content 5-20 % and the utilization are
limited to >1000 mAh/g for containing the volume expansion and the associated
capacity degradations.
• Scope of further energy density improvement to realize ultra high energy density
class battery systems (> 400 Wh/kg) relies on the successful development of 3D nano
12

--- Page 27 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
architecture like Si nanowires embedded graphite composites combining high Li
storage and cycle life characteristics suitable for real world applications.
Advantages: As a direction oriented Si nanowires, it is able to swell without breaking
and have the advantages of high surface to volume ratio and enable better Si capacity
utilisation in the composite matrix. Si nanowires infused in Graphite able to withstand
more volume change without undergoing pulverisation unlike particles and limited
cracking thereby extended the cycle life. This kind of nano structures exhibits add-on
advantage of shorter diffusion path for Li ionic species, thus offering the possibility of
fast charging and higher discharging rates compared to 2D Nano composites.
G Area Formal Verification (VSSC)
G1 Sub Area Language Compiler for Microprocessor, Formal Verification (VSSC)
Formal Verification of Vikram3201 Ada Cross-Compiler (VSSC)
The research proposal aims at formal verification of in-house developed Ada cross-
compiler for Vikram3201, a 32-bit processor with indigenous instruction set architecture.
G1.1
Ada cross-compiler has been developed in-house and used for development of flight
software for Vikram3201-based embedded systems. The research is aimed at formally
proving that the compiler is error free.
H Area Model-based Software Development Framework (VSSC)
Software development framework using Model-based techniques
H1 Sub Area to provide a Low-Code/No-Code platform for future NGC flight
software development (VSSC)
Low-Code Software Development Platform for OBCs (VSSC)
• Software development process in general is transitioning from a traditional manual
programming model to Low-Code/No-Code based software development process
• Visual Programming, Model based Development, Formal Specification etc. all are
different approaches to this general goal
H1.1
• This proposal envisions such a platform to auto generate software from GUIs,
configuration files, specifications etc. instead of manual software coding
• The platform shall support customization for in house safe subset of high level
languages and Instruction Set Architecture of indigenous processor for generating
Assembly functions
H2 Sub Area Launch vehicle sequential system (VSSC)
High power Laser diode device design, development and realization (VSSC)
Design and realization of high power laser diode with 975nm wavelength. Power
H2.1
level shall be adjustable with input current to the laser diode. Power output shall be
programmable from 3watt to 10watt by adjusting input current to laser diode.
13

--- Page 28 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
I Area Sensing Systems (VSSC)
I1 Sub Area Instrumentation, Data Acquisition and Telemetry VSSC)
Graphene-based Sensors and Sensing Systems (VSSC)
Graphene is a two-dimensional material that exhibits superior electrical and
mechanical properties when compared to Silicon for sensing and electronic device
realization. Realization of sensors based on Graphene platform is expected to lead to
high performance, low-power, miniaturized sensing systems suitable for aerospace
I1.1 application. Increased sensitivity, improved operational ranges and better accuracy
are expected performance gains from these sensors. Sensors and sensing systems
for parameters such as pressure, strain, vibration, acoustics, humidity, gas detection
and biomedical health monitoring and Hall effect sensors are suitable candidates for
development. This involves development of sensor, signal conditioning / interrogation
electronics, packaging, calibration and compensation as required.
Radio Sounding system development for Planetary Ionospheric
J Area
studies (VSSC)
J1 Sub Area Scientific probes, Sensing Antennae & RF Systems (VSSC)
Wideband transmitting and receiving antenna for RF; Efficient RF transmitting and
receiving systems with onboard RF data processing (VSSC)
The atmosphere of planetary bodies like Moon is characterized by the absence of a
unified magnetic field. This allows the direct interaction of solar wind with planetary
surface and atmosphere, which in turn leads to the formation of an ‘ionosphere’. Such
an ionosphere would be an ideal plasma laboratory to understand the behaviour of
plasma in the absence of a unified magnetic field. The plasma distribution, both spatial
and temporal, would depend on the magnetic field conditions unique to the heavenly
J1.1 body. A typical requirement for such a measurement in the case of a lunar mission is as
follows: the transmitter sweeps in the frequency range of 90KHz to 1MHz. The sounding
is proposed to be done in about 200 discrete steps. The pulse width is variable in the
range of 5-40μs, with preferably a pulse repetition frequency of 500Hz. The envisaged
peak pulse power is 5W.
The project envisages development of an RF transceiver system with front-end antenna
suitable for this. The system will thus aid the investigation of the temporal variations of
magnetic field in the lunar or planetary ionosphere in the vicinity of its surface under
varying solar conditions.
K Area Superconductor based Electromagnetic Cage (VSSC)
K1 Sub Area Superconductor, high current electronics, cryogenics (VSSC)
Development of a superconductor based electromagnetic cage for active radiation
K1.1
shielding in outer space (VSSC)
14

--- Page 29 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
The proposal aims to develop and prototype a high temperature superconductor based
electromagnetic cage which can offer active radiation shielding in outer space. This will
offer protection against the harmful effects of radiation and thereby enable long term
survivability of human in outer space.
L Area Avionics-Communication Systems (VSSC)
Development of a Fully deterministic variant of the Ethernet
L1 Sub Area protocol for communication in a multi computer architecture with
capability of data rates beyond 100Mbps (VSSC)
Fully deterministic variant of the Ethernet protocol for interprocessor
communication in a multi computer architecture with capability of data rates
beyond 100Mbps (VSSC)
L1.1 The proposal aims to develop a fully deterministic variant of the Ethernet protocol
which will enable the development of avionics architecture with multiple computers
interconnected by this high speed serial link. The developed protocol should be capable
of communicating beyond 100Mbps.
Superconductor based electromagnetic field generator for gravity
M Area
generation (VSSC)
M1 Sub Area Superconductor, high current electronics, cryogenics (VSSC)
The proposal aims to develop and prototype a high temperature superconductor based
M1.1 electromagnetic field generatorwhich can generate a rotating field to spin human
habitat modules for generating gravity.
N Area Aerospace Engineering (VSSC)
N1 Sub Area Development of Tools (VSSC)
Tool Developement (VSSC)
With the advent of higher computing power, fidelity of numerical simulations is also
increasing. Second order RANS simulations are routinely carried out for aerodynamic
design and characterization. Improved fidelity can be achieved by carrying out Large
Eddy Simulations with higher order of accuracy. Towards this, a higher order solver is
essential which can be based on Discontinuous-Galerkin (DG) or the Flux-Reconstruction
N1.1
(FR) framework which has shown promise in the recent past. As the configurations on
which the solver will be used are not amenable for structured grid, the solver has to be
based on 3D unstructured grid topology with mixed elements such as tetrahedrons,
hexahedrons, triangular prisms and pyramids. Additionally, most of the flows over launch
vehicles and re-entry bodies are high Mach number flows. Hence the solver should be
designed for compressible flows with shocks.
15

--- Page 30 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Software for three dimensional polyhedral mesh generation on arbitrary
geometries (VSSC)
Grid generation is an integral part of a CFD simulation process. Conventionally, mixed
N1.2 element grids involving tetrahedrons, hexahedrons, pyramids and triangular prisms have
been used in an unstructured solver. But in recent past, polyhedral grids have shown
promising results in terms of accuracy and robustness. Hence an automatic polyhedral
grid generator which can generate a grid on an arbitrary geometry is sought.
Development of empirical tool or simplified mathematical tools for prelimiary
aerodynamic data generation for wingbody configuration for ground proximity
conditions (VSSC)
Detailed moving mesh based CFD simulations are computationally expensive and time
consuming and this makes it non-feasbile for detailed preliminary investigations during
design phase. Empirical tools or simplified mathematical tools are promising candidates
to generate aerodynamic data for winged body configurations during design phase
with quick turn around time. Once the configuration is finalized, designers can make
use of computationally expensive moving mesh based CFD solvers. Currently we have
N1.3
high fidility robust CFD solvers to handle the second part for accurate data generation.
Proposals are invited to develop empirical/mathematical tools capable of generating
aerodynamic data for winged body configurations, accounting for dynamic ground
proximity, with reasonable and acceptable levels of accuracy.
Typical parameters expected from the tool includes sink rate, aspect ratio, height above
ground, and other essential design parameters. Results should be validated for minimum
two cases, supplied by VSSC or published in literature.
Source code and executable files should be installed in VSSC computational facility and
proper training to be given to our Engineers.
N2 Sub Area Additive Manufacturing, 3D Printing (VSSC)
Design and realisation of 3D printable sandwich deck plates with provision for
internal cooling (VSSC)
Presently, aluminium sandwich deck with honeycomb core support avionics packages in
launch vehicle and satellites. These deck plates are process, schedule and cost intensive.
In addition to this, thermal dissipation systems are provided in and around the deck for
N2.1 dissipating the heat generated by avionics packages.
The proposal is to design a 3D printable sandwich deck with aluminium skin and lattice
type core along with internal cooling veins system which is capable of supporting the
structural and thermal environment.
The proposed system shall be printed in a single go with internal cooling veins ensuring
minimal post processing options.
16

--- Page 31 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
N3 Sub Area Composite Lattice structure (VSSC)
Development of theoretical models of composite lattice cylinders and cone type
structures (VSSC)
Composite filament wound lattice structures are evolving optimized construction for
aerospace applications. Comprehensive theoretical model for lattice design are limited.
N3.1 The proposed topic is the development of a comprehensive theoretical model capable
of predicting the structural behaviour (deflection and strains), possible local and global
failure modes of cylindrical and conical structures under compression, tension and
bending loads.
The theoretical model shall be validated using FE and proto hardware testing.
O Area Aerodynamics (VSSC)
O1 Sub Area Experimental aerodynamics (VSSC)
Development of Background Oriented Schlieren system for use in Trisonic wind
tunnels (VSSC)
The proposal envisages development of a background oriented schlieren setup for a
viewing area of 500mm diameter in a trisonic wind tunnel.
O1.1 Design and procurement of required optics (if necessary) Development of algorithm for
measuring density preferably in Matlab.
Validation with standard 2D wedge and 3D cone models Demonstration of the BOS in
ISRO Tri-sonic Wind Tunnel on a Crew Module.
(VSSC TWT possess necessary windows, light source and collimated beam).
O2 Sub Area CFD, Unsteady Simulations, Large separated flows (VSSC)
Computational investigation of dynamic stability derivatives for semi-ballistic
re-entry modules (VSSC)
Semi-ballistic re-entry modules are used for ferrying crew to and from space. The
module spends significant time in atmospheric phase while nominal reentry. During
abort missions, the module may experience re-orientation from an angle much away
from desirable trim angle, hence undergoing large pitching motion. These modules
O2.1
are reported to be dynamically unstable at subsonic and transonic speeds in literature.
Accurate computation of these phenomena is essential for precise simulations of its
behaviour prior to parachute deployment. Unsteady CFD simulations capturing the
time lag effects in large separated flows pave the way to study the underlying reasons
and possible solutions for undampingbehavior. Apart from high fidelity simulations,
data processing and usage also plays a significant role.
17

--- Page 32 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
O3 Sub Area Experimental aerodynamics (VSSC)
Development of forced rotation roll damping rig for use in Trisonic wind tunnels
The proposal envisages development of a forced rotation roll damping rig for roll
damping coefficient estimation in trisonic wind tunnels.
Roll speed: 35 RPM to 2000 RPM
O3.1 The proposal consists of measuring the RM of rotating model using a balance / torque cell,
rotating the model at various constant speeds, speed measurement, a feedback circuit
for maintain the speed and suitable control system. The scope of work includes design
and finalization of required motors, slip rings, hall effect sensors, angle measurement
system, software for control, simulation results etc and purchase order specifications for
each items.
Methods to specify the size and shape of Boundary Layer trips on wind tunnel
models at low and high Angle of Attack in subsonic regime (VSSC)
During lift off of launch vehicles, the vehicle AOA continuously decreases from 90° to 0°.
Typically scaled wind tunnel models are used in WT for obtaining loads at various aoa.
At higher AOA, in order to get the loads accurately, the flow field on both the WT model
and in flight should be same. Hence, various kinds of BL trips are used on WT models to
simulate the flight Reynolds number. This proposal seeks an appropriate procedure for
arriving at the size and shape of boundary trips on a variety of wind tunnel models in the
O3.2
angle of attack range of 0° to 90°.
Experimental investigation to derive the procedure/methodology/pattern to distribute
the boundary layer trips on typical scaled down models of slender body (SSLV/
Gaganyaan/TVP etc), blunt body (Crew Module) and lifting body (RLV, GEV) at subsonic
speeds and demonstrate aerocoeffcient independence with speed by proper BL tripping
in speeds upto 80 m/s at various angles of attack and wind plane angles. Alternatively
tunnel flow turbulence can be increased by use of appropriate grids and TBL on model
can be demonstrated.
The development and integration of Delayed Detached Eddy Simulation (DDES)
and Wall model Large Eddy Simulation (WMLES) for in-house solver PRAVAHA
(VSSC)
1. To develop DDES and WMLES and integrate them into the existing in-house solver
O3.3 “Parallel RANS Solver for Aerospace Vehicle Aerothermodynamic Analysis (PRAVAHA)”
which is cell centered finite volume solver on unstructured grid (C++ language to be
used).
2. Implement Kinetic Energy and Entropy Preserving schemes on polyhedral mesh
elements along with adaptive schemes in the vicinity of shock.
18

--- Page 33 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
3. Implement various wall models for WMLES.
4. The validation of the solver w.r.to boundary layer flows (with and without separation)
and shock-boundary layer interaction with existing literature for realistic engineering
geometries (external flow over launch vehicle& supersonic jet flows).
Demonstration of these solver in predicting the noise levels for supersonic jets and
external flow over launch vehicles.
Experimental Fluid Structure Interaction study to understand parachute dynamics
(VSSC)
Parachute system is an essential system for recovery missions. We need to generate
sufficient experimental data and the same is not available to the required level.
Proposals are invited to carry out the parametric studies using a series of experiments.
O3.4
Experimental database for parachutes with various parameters like wiser length, flyout
angle, flyout length, material flexibility, multiple parachutes and fore-body effect needs
to be generated. We are looking for proposals from academia and/or industries, having
necessary facilities or capable of establishing the necessary facilities for performing
fundamental experiments to understand parachute dynamics, (both single and cluster).
P Area Propulsion (VSSC)
P1 Sub Area Hybrid Motor (VSSC)
Modelling of fuel regression and pressure behaviour in Hybrid Motor (LPSC)
Burn rate of solid fuel in Hybrid Motors depend on convective heat transfer to the fuel
grain, fuel pyrolysis and oxidiser flow rate and its evaporation. For obtaining the pressure-
time behaviour and oscillations in a hybrid motor, the coupling of the LOX evaporation
and the heat transfer based fuel regression needs to be modelled. The temperature
P1.1 variation in the fuel grain and the recession of the fuel grain due to regression also need
to be modelled. A conjugate heat-transfer based model to predict the pyrolysis rate of
HTPB fuel based on heat-flux at the fuel surface and the moving mesh to account for
the recession of the fuel grain due to burning needs to be developed and implemented,
along with a suitable combustion model in a CFD package to enable full transient
pressure behaviour of the hybrid motor.
Q Area Aerothermal (VSSC)
Q1 Sub Area Radiant heating (VSSC)
Design and Development of a Graphite strip heater to operate at temperature
above 3000degC in ambient sea-level condition (LPSC)
Graphite radiant heaters can achieve very high heat flux for long duration. And the shape
Q1.1
of heater can be appropriately made to suit the specimen. The current technology of
quartz sealed tungsten filament-based lamps to simulate high heat flux have a limitation
owing to the oxidation of tungsten and melting of quartz.
19

--- Page 34 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
1. Development of tantalum carbide or similar high temperature coating to prevent
oxidation of Graphite at high temperature
2. Selection of fine grain Graphite grade compatible for the coating and operation at
temperature >3000degC
3. Develop procedure such as plasma spray for coating application on Graphite strip
heater element.
4. Develop a small scale test setup with stepdown transformer, rectifier and filters for
heating the graphite heater to temperatures above 3000degC.
Demonstrate the survivability of coating for repeated use at temperature >3000degC
for sustained heating for 30 minutes.
Q2 Sub Area Non-linear Control (VSSC)
Design techniques for the transient behavior of systems with Lyapunov based
control design in spacecrafts and satellite launch vehicles (VSSC)
Lyapunov based control design always ensure the stability of the non-linear systems.
However, till date this technique lacks a standard methodology for the design of
the transient behaviour unlike in linear systems, where they are approximated as
Q2.1 2nd order systems for performance analysis. Transient performance is critical
for systems like launch vehicles and spacecrafts as there are numerous uncertain sources
of disturbances possible to impact while in flight. Development of this technique
will boost the scope of implementation of Lyapunov based control algorithms for
future applications which ensures stability along with the expected transient phase
response.
R Area Photonic Thruster (LEOS)
Development of CNT (carbon nanotube) ablating film for laser based propulsion
systems (LEOS)
CNT-based ablating films will have better specific impulse and low dead mass compared
to other materials which are being used in ablating film fabrication. The current proposed
research is towards the realization of the CNT-based ablating film for micro-newton
thruster applications employing the carbon nanotube-based films developed based on
the spray coating method. Ablation films are required for the thrusters with a thrust of
R1.1 the order of micro-Newton. The parameters, namely specific impulse and momentum
coupling coefficient of ablating films, play a major role in deciding the performance of
the thruster. Thrust level of micro-Newton thruster: approx. 100 µN; specific impulse
:> 650 s; laser power: ̴ 15 W pulse laser source (~0.1 to 10 ms pulse at 10-20 Hz repetition
rate). The main objectives of interest are a) development of CNT-based ablating film
for micro-Newton thruster applications; b) characterization of properties, namely
adhesion, durability of ablating film on the substrate, and laser ablating properties; and
c) fabrication of 1-meter-long ablating film.
20

--- Page 35 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
S Area Range Operations (SDSC SHAR)
S1 Sub Area Meteorology (SDSC SHAR)
Enhancing Space Launch Vehicle Safety through X-Band Doppler Weather Radar
Assimilation in NWP Models (SDSC SHAR)
Space launch operations are highly sensitive to weather conditions, particularly
during the critical launch window. Severe weather events such as heavy rainfall and
thunderstorms can pose significant risks, necessitating accurate and timely weather
S1.1
predictions. This research proposes the integration of high-resolution X-band Doppler
Weather Radar data into Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) models using advanced
data assimilation techniques. The objective is to enhance the accuracy of Nowcasting
and short-term forecasts, thereby optimizing weather assessments and ensuring the
safety of space launch operations.
Hybrid Data Assimilation Techniques for Upper Winds, Monsoon Rainfall, Rapid
Cyclone and Thunderstorm, and Lightning Prediction in Launch Environments
(SDSC SHAR)
Hybrid data assimilation methods that merge traditional meteorological data—such
as Automatic Weather Stations (AWS), wind profilers, lightning observations, and
S1.2 ceilometers—with high-frequency inputs from X-band radars and satellite imagery. The
integrated approach aims to accurately capture the fast-evolving dynamics of severe
weather systems, including upper winds, monsoon rainfall, cyclones, thunderstorms,
and lightning activity. Such advancements are critical for enhancing the reliability of
weather predictions, ultimately providing essential decision-making support for safe
and efficient space launch operations.
AI-Driven Upper Wind Forecasting for Enhanced Space Launch Safety: Integrating
High-Resolution Wind Profiler and GPS Radio Sonde Observations (SDSC SHAR)
Research proposal focuses on developing a scientifically rigorous, AI-driven framework
for short-range prediction of upper atmospheric wind conditions critical to space
launch operations. By integrating high-resolution wind profiler measurements with
GPS radio sonde vertical profiles, the project aims to design and implement advanced
S1.3
data assimilation techniques and machine learning models. These models will capture
the dynamic atmospheric variability over short time horizons, thereby providing high-
fidelity forecasts essential for optimizing launch trajectories and mitigating aerodynamic
risks. The approach promises to enhance operational decision-making and overall
mission safety by delivering timely and accurate wind predictions in the complex upper
atmospheric environment.
21

--- Page 36 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
B. AI-Enhanced High-Resolution Short-Range Forecasting of Near-Surface Winds
for Space Launch Operations (SDSC SHAR)
Research proposal aims to develop state-of-the-art AI/ML models for the high-resolution,
short-range prediction of near-surface winds (up to 100m) tailored for space launch
operations and lift-off wind monitoring. By integrating diverse datasets—including
S1.4
long-term climatological observations, reanalysis data, and forecast outputs from
ECMWF and WRF NWP models—the project seeks to capture fine-scale wind variability
essential for launch safety. Advanced data assimilation and machine learning techniques
will be employed to fuse these heterogeneous sources, resulting in improved real-time
forecasts that support critical decision-making during launch operations and Liftoff.
Rainfall prediction and type classification over the East-coast of India (SDSC SHAR)
This research aims to predict rainfall patterns and classify the types of rainfall over the
east coast of India using multiple meteorological instruments i.e., Micro Rain Radar
(MRR), Ceilometer, Liquid Precipitation Monitor and Satellite observations. The Liquid
Precipitation Monitor will provide measurements on real-time liquid precipitation,
S1.5
Ceilometer will inform about Cloud height and MRR offers vertical profiles of rain rate,
liquid water content and drop size distribution at 22.24 GHz. A possible outcome of
the study is an integrated model to predict rainfall intensity and type (e.g., Convective,
Stratiform, Intermittent etc.) with high accuracy. This will enhance weather forecasting
capabilities for localized rainfall prediction.
Weather forecast at local region using foundational weather models (SDSC SHAR)
Recent advancements in foundational weather models, such as Microsoft’s ClimaX,
Huawei’s Pangu-Weather, and Google’s GraphCast, have demonstrated superior
predictive capabilities compared to traditional Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP)
models like GFS and WRF. These deep learning-based models leverage global reanalysis
datasets and have shown remarkable skill in medium-range forecasting.
In this context, an open-source weather and climate foundational model, pre-trained
on ERA-5 reanalysis data, can be fine-tuned using high-resolution local meteorological
S1.6
observations from the ASRF observations. By integrating multi-source observational
datasets, including ground-based sensors, remote sensing products, and reanalysis
data, the model can be adapted to enhance regional forecasting accuracy. Furthermore,
embedding spatiotemporal meteorological features into the model will allow
for improved downscaling and high-resolution forecasts tailored to specific local
conditions. This approach aims to bridge the gap between global-scale predictions and
localized atmospheric dynamics, enabling more precise short- to medium-term weather
forecasting.
22

--- Page 37 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
Water isotope analysis over the East-coast of Indian region during Cyclonic events
(SDSC SHAR)
This research aims to analyse the water isotope composition over the Chandipur region
of eastern India during cyclonic events to better understand the impact of extreme
weather on the local hydrological process. By studying the stable isotopes of water, the
S1.7
research can investigate cyclonic rainfall, evaporation and water vapour transport affect
the isotopic signatures. Data will be collected periodically before, during and after a
cyclonic event to trace the movement and transformation of water at the eastern part
of India. This research can contribute to improved understanding of cyclone-induced
hydrological behaviour.
Aromatic VOCs at Major Road junctions in Metropolitan cities in India (SDSC SHAR)
The scope of the research aims to analyze the concentration and sources of aromatic
volatile organic compounds at major road junctions in metropolitan cities of India.
The Thermal-Desorption Gas Chromatograph Flame Ionisation Detector (TD-GC-
S1.8 FID) and Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) analyzer can measure the levels of key
aromatic VOCs which are primarily emitted from vehicle exhaust, industrial activities
and traffic congestion. This study can assess the temporal and spatial variation in VOC
concentrations and contribute to understanding and the impact of vehicular emissions
on air quality and public health in urban settlements.
Ionospheric observation using Ionosonde (SDSC SHAR)
This research aims to enhance understanding of atmospheric dynamics. Ionosondes,
which measure the electron density and later structure of the ionosphere can provide
S1.9 valuable data on ionospheric anomalies, radio signal propagation and space weather
events. This study is expected to contribute to improved space weather forecasting,
calibrate communication & navigation system at regions influenced by coastal
geography.
Investigation of interaction among aerosol, cloud and rainfall over the East coast
of India during Indian Summer Monsoon (SDSC SHAR)
This research aims to investigate how atmospheric aerosols which are tiny particles
suspended in the air, influence cloud formation and impact the amount of rainfall by
influencing cloud microphysical properties. The key points in this research it to better
S1.10
understand the impact of aerosols and their effects as parametrization in Numerical
Models or in AI-based Foundation Models. In this context, data from Robotic Sun
Photometer, Aethalometer, Nephelometer, Ceilometer, Cloud Radar etc. can be used
along with satellite imagery data for evaluating the role of aerosol-cloud-rainfall
association.
23

--- Page 38 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Middle & upper atmospheric study using VHF atmospheric Radar (SDSC SHAR)
This study of the middle and upper atmosphere aims to advance the understanding of
atmospheric dynamics and ionospheric interactions. In this work, phenomena such as
S1.11 atmospheric waves, turbulence ionospheric irregularities which affect communication
systems & satellite operations are to be studied. Detailed analysis of turbulence and
wind dynamics helps to better understand atmospheric circulation patterns and their
impact on global weather systems.
T Area Solid Motor Performance & Environmental Test Facility (SDSC SHAR)
Developing a jet noise source localisation technique using a microphone array
with appropriate beam forming algorithms (SDSC SHAR)
Locating the jet noise sources in the lift-off scenario of a launch vehicle will benefit
T1.1
highly in the suppression of the noise sources. Present method proposes to use an array
of microphones and employ suitable algorithm and develop a code to locate the noise
sources.
Modelling and evaluation of damping in threaded joints of load cells and its impact
on measuring dynamic force components (SDSC SHAR)
T1.2 During static test, the thrust load transfer is through threaded joints. The thread damping
is important with respect to the dynamic thrust measurement. The objective is to model
and experimentally evaluate the threaded joint damping for unsteady load transfer.
U Area Vehicle Assembly and Launch Facilities (SDSC SHAR)
Automated Stage Preparation with minimum human intervention (SDSC SHAR)
As the launch frequency increases, human intervention, in repetitive work, will have
a tendency for delay and error. In this regard, automated Rocket stage preparation
infrastructure with an ability to prepare stages swiftly and with minimum error
(Six Sigma accuracy) is a gamechanger. The project can be initiated with automation of
the Pneumatic Test Consoles (PTC) which can conduct all the leak tests independently
and provide data comparison and data analysis automatically using AL/ML in order to
increase launch frequency. Following are the features which the user interface shall have:
1. Connect and forget technology for stages.
U1.1 2. Remote monitoring of live leak test data (Secured Data sharing to different agencies).
3. Machine learning based leak check result interpretation. Saves time and increases
launch frequency.
4. Automated presentation and reporting system to streamline data.
5. Failure modes and troubleshooting procedures to pin point leak.
6. Enhanced interchangeability for different stages for different global clients. Increase
in utilisation of the facility.
7. Automated T&E, saving facility readiness time.
Future implication of AI- Based stage preparation.
24

--- Page 39 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
V Area Liquid Propulsion (LPSC)
Evaluation of Passive Devices for Control of Combustion Instability in Liquid
Engines (LPSC)
Combustion instability is a phenomenon that sometimes occurs in liquid rocket engines
and can lead to damage/destruction of the hardware. It can be controlled by passive
V1.1 techniques such as slots, baffles, resonators etc. It is necessary to model the combustion
instability in the presence of these dampeners and evaluate their effectiveness under
different operating conditions. The effect of variation of geometric parameters is to
be quantified. Combustion instability model for liquid rocket engine with passive
dampeners.
Development of Physics Based Model to Predict the Soot Formation in the
Combustion Chambers of Methane - Oxygen and Isrosene - Oxygen Engines (LPSC)
Development of a physics based combustion model to predict soot formation as a
function of liquid engine operating parameters such as chamber pressure and mixture
ratio. The chemical kinetics, reaction mechanism, species and their desired properties
required for combustion modelling have to be formulated through standard published
literature for both methane-oxygen and Isrosene-oxygen propellant combinations. The
V1.2
developed model has to be validated with the test data provided by LPSC or with the
relevant data available in the open literature.
Expected Deliverables are:
Quantification of soot formation during methane-oxygen and Isrosene-oxygen
combustion in liquid rocket engines. A combustion model to predict the effect of mixture
ratio and other operating parameters of the engine on the degree of soot formation.
Model based estimation of pressure evolution in a Liquid methane tank ullage
with internal feed tunnel under dynamic conditions & cryogenic engine operation
(LPSC)
Development of discretized mathematical model to estimate ullage pressure and
temperature across the ullage volume and calculate the mean mass temperature of the
ullage volume during ascent phase & engine operation. The discretized model of the
V1.3 ullage is to be generated for simulating the real time internal thermodynamics & heat
transfer phenomena of the ullage during ascent phase & engine operation.
The heat transfer modeling in both dome and shell area to be done to estimate the
pressure evolution in the tank during the expulsion time of liquid. The node of the ullage
is getting increased during the expulsion time and radial and axial heat transfer to be
estimated such that the pressure change due to collapsing of the ullage gas due to the
exposure of internals during the expulsion of low temperature liquid from the tank.
25

--- Page 40 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
CFD modelling of thermal stratification in uninsulated cryogenic propellant tank
(LPSC)
The LOX and LCH4 tanks being developed for NGLV are proposed to be uninsulated.
The high heat in-leak into the cryogenic propellant will lead to significant vaporization
of the propellant and may lead to boiling near walls. Additionally, the frost formation
on the tank outer wall determines the heat in-leak into the propellant. Furthermore, the
formation of thermally stratified layer near the liquid-vapor interface, evolution of tank
pressure and fluid temperature needs to be determined during tank filling process and
subsequent operations. Subsequent to lift-off, the aerodynamic loads on the propellant
V1.4
tank will result in fluid sloshing and affect the fluid behaviour and heat transfer to the
propellant that needs to be considered in the model. In this regard, a comprehensive
CFD model is required to be developed for modeling of the heat and mass transfer
phenomena in the un-insulated cryogenic tank during tank filling and lift-off phases.
The model must include the frost formation on the tank outer wall, and determine the
temperature and pressure evolution in the liquid and vapour in the tank.
The CFD model is required to be developed preferably in ANSYS Fluent based on Volume
of Fluid method, and must incorporate the mass transfer dynamics of the propellant.
The model must be validated with the data available in literature /ISRO’s test data.
Numerical simulation of single and multiple swirl injector performance in
throttleable spacecraft engines (LPSC)
Single and multiple coaxial swirl injectors are used in the liquid rocket engines used in
propulsion systems of satellites, lunar and planetary landers etc. A part of propellant
acts as coolant for the thrust chamber by virtue of the conical spray from the injector.
In throttle able engines, the injector spray pattern changes with the change in propellant
flow rates, which in turn will affect the cooling of the combustion chamber wall. Further,
V1.5 the wall cooling is also affected by the injector-injector interaction. It is important to
understand the injector flow behavior under all operating conditions during design
cycle of the engines, prior to hardware fabrication and testing. Simulation of primary
breakup of the propellants injected at the nominal and throttles operating conditions is
of importance in this regard.
Via this proposal it is envisaged to develop a detailed numerical model of primary
breakup in MMH/NTO based spacecraft engines which employ multiple coaxial swirl
injectors at nominal and throttled operating conditions.
Lunar regolith transport from multi-engine firing during planetary descent (LPSC)
Planetary descent into an atmosphere-free celestial body generates engine plume flow
V1.6
fields that transition through continuum, rarefied and free-molecular regimes. For multi-
engine landers, plume-plume and plume-surface interactions result in complex plume
26

--- Page 41 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
gas and regolith flow structures. The eroded particle flux from the ground exhibits
complex structures as a consequence of the three-dimensionality of the plume flow
and plume-plume interactions. The eroded regolith flow resulting from multi-engine
landers exhibit directional jetting, where the particles motion tend to concentrate near
symmetry planes between adjacent nozzles as well as symmetry planes bisecting each
nozzle. Such features cannot be captured using an axisymmetric approach. This research
call is for the development of a parallelized three-dimensional two-way coupled DSMC-
regolith excitation/transport solver that is capable of simulating the expansion of plume
gases from multiple engines of a lander, and their interaction with planetary regolith
and the ensuing regolith transport.
Two Phase Flow Modeling in Cryogenic Propellant Feed Lines (LPSC)
Cryogenic engines make use of propellants such as liquid Hydrogen and liquid Oxygen
at sub-cooled temperatures. The propellant is fed to the engine from the storage tank
via. feed lines that are typically of 70-400mm diameter. The feed lines are either super
insulated or foam insulated and are initially at ambient temperature (≈298K). The feed
lines are required to be chilled to respective cryogenic temperatures of the fluid (≈20K for
Hydrogen feed line and ≈80K for oxygen feedline) prior to the start of engine operation
to avoid undesirable flow oscillation. The chill down process is complex in nature due
to varying two phase flow boiling regimes and heat-in-leak conditions. In this regard, a
validated conjugate numerical model is to be developed to simulate the following:
V1.7 • Feedline chill down from ambient temperature to the respective propellant
temperature. The model must include heat transfer correlations which will be invoked
based on wall temperatures and fluid quality
• The model has to capture the effect of pipe orientations viz. horizontal, vertical and
inclined on the chill down characteristics
• In case of large diameter feed lines, stratifed flow predominates and thermal bowing
of feedline may occur. The model should be able to capture this flow regime and
the associated thermal gradients The time varying temperature evolution of the
feedline in axial and circumferential direction and the time taken for feedline chilling
completion are some of the important parameters to be compared. The flow regime
transition at different points in the feedline.
W Area Advanced Propulsion Systems and Control Electronics (LPSC)
Regenerator Studies on Free Piston Stirling Engine (Fpse) (LPSC)
The work aims at optimising the regenerator using the available FPSE with LPSC to
W1.1 achieve highest possible thermal efficiency. The heat transfer in the regenerator is studied
simulating the oscillatory nature of the flow. The objective of this is to experimentally
measure the friction factors and Nusselt numbers in oscillating flow of regenerator
27

--- Page 42 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
matrices that will be used in Stirling engines that are planned for space power generation.
The experimental data will be analyzed and usable correlations of the friction factor and
Nusselt number will be provided. The aim of the study is to optimise the regenerator
to enhance the efficiency of the LPSC FPSE from the existing 18-20% (theoretical) by at
least 25% using the regenerator.
Expected Deliverables are:
• Optimised regenerator design for the FPSE designed by LPSC.
Multi-Plume Interaction Studies of Clustered Hall Thrusters (LPSC)
The performance of a thruster in a cluster may be different from a standalone situation. One
interest is to investigate the plume interactions, especially in the complex and important
near field locations. To accurately simulate the plasma plumes from a cluster of Hall thrusters
requires an accurate modelling of the complex physical plume mechanism. Traditionally,
the computational simulation of plasma plume flows into vacuum is performed with
a hybrid particle-fluid approach. The Direct Simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) method
models the collisions of the heavy particles (ions and atoms) while the Particle In Cell
W1.2
(PIC) method models the transport of the ions in electric fields. This study is intended
to simulate the detailed three-dimensional plume structures and plume interactions.
Expected deliverables are:
• Simulation of Electron temperature, plasma density and plasma potential profile
downstream of single SPT thruster (plume)
• Effect of clustering of three SPTs on above plasma parameters
• Prediction of overall thrust, efficiency and specific impulse of clustered system
Mathematical modelling of Stirling thermoelectric converter (LPSC)
Stirling thermo-electric converters have been reported to provide a thermal-to-
electrical conversion efficiency of 25-30%in comparison to that of 5-6% for Radioisotope
thermoelectric generators. This makes Stirling thermo-electric converters a preferable
choice for deep-space missions where the solar energy is insufficient for generation
of electrical power. Further, the free-piston Stirling generators with linear alternator
are reported to be ideal for use in space due to the clearances between moving parts
W1.3
resulting in their long life. However, the Stirling generators are complex dynamic
machines that involve displacer and piston reciprocating at high frequencies (~100Hz)
within a cylinder.
The mathematical modeling of various heat transfer processes in the heater, cooler
and regenerator along with the dynamic motion of fast moving parts in the free-
piston Stirling generator with linear alternator is essential for their design, performance
evaluation, and optimization for flight use.
28

--- Page 43 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
In this regard, the present proposal is for the requirement of a mathematical model
of Stirling thermo-electric converter to simulate the thermodynamic process of the
gaseous helium working gas, the various energy losses that take place in the generator
during thermal-to-electrical power conversion, and the dynamic forces acting on the
moving displacer and piston. The model is required to be generic that can be used for
performance evaluation of Stirling generator of various power ratings. The model is
required to be validated with the available literature data.
Design and development of high efficiency 5kW rated configurable and scalable
converter using wide band gap devices for Aerospace application (LPSC)
Design, modeling, simulation, characterization and development of high efficiency
(>95% at max power and >90% at minimum power of 500W) 5kW rated configurable
and scalable DC-DC converter operating at input voltage of 60-100V and output voltage
of 300-600V.
Scope of the work:
1. Configuration finalization and topology selection.
2. Design and small signal modelling of proposed converter.
3. Characterisation of wide band gap devices (like GaN, HEMT, SiC etc.) for proposed
W1.4 design.
4. Design, simulation and characterization of electromagnetics for proposed design.
5. Configuration studies on control scheme (digital hybrid control) for proposed
configuration for meeting configurability, scalability requirements so that converters
can be synchronized (in parallel or series combination) and work together to meet
the output voltage and power requirements.
6. Implementation of programmable digital control loop gain, current limit, control
strategies.
7. Design iterations based on proto model testing and realization of engineering
model meeting converter requirements in terms of voltage/power and efficiency
requirements.
X Area Sensors & Transducers for Liquid Propulsion (LPSC)
Development of a Quantity Sensing System and Cryo Compatible Electrical
Heater for a Cryogenic Super Critical Storage Vessel (Hydrogen & Oxygen) in
Space Environment (LPSC)
X1.1
A quantity sensing system and cryo compatible electrical heater for a super critical
storage system for Hydrogen and Oxygen is to be developed. The container will be
spherical in shape with approximately 1m inside diameter. The storage pressure will be
29

--- Page 44 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
higher than 1.3 MPa for LH2 & 5.1MPa for LOX. Pressure inside the container shall be
maintained above critical pressure using electrical heaters. A cryo compatible electrical
heater and an accurate quantity sensing system for cryogenic fluids have to be
developed. The sensor system should be able to give dependable results in the following
scenario. At ground in the loading condition with the liquid in saturated condition.
During operation in space environment with the fluid in super critical phase in varying
temperature conditions. The tank pressure will be above critical values. Based on the
feasibility, independent proposals can be submitted for quantity sensing system and
electrical heater.
A capacitance or RF based system is preferred over temperature and pressure-based
measurements considering both the operating regimes and preferably single system for
different regime.
Expected Deliverables are:
1. Detailed design, documentation and test results of the sensor / heater system.
2. Working prototype (non-flight) including sensor / Heater.
Design and Development of Eddy current based speed sensor for Cryogenic
Turbopumps (LPSC)
To design and develop an eddy current-based speed sensor with an integrated signal
conditioner capable of accurately measuring the rotational speed of turbo pumps in
launch vehicles upto LH2 temperature. Presently, turbopumps utilize ferromagnetic-
type inducer blades, which are coupled with inductive speed sensors to measure the
inducer blade speed, subsequently determining the turbopump speed. However, the
X1.2 increasing demand for lightweight designs in launch vehicle applications necessitates
the use of non-magnetic materials like aluminum or titanium for the inducer blades of
turbopumps. These materials pose a challenge for conventional inductive-type sensors,
which rely on the ferromagnetic properties of the blades for accurate measurement.
The objective is to design an eddy current-based speed sensor capable of working with
non-magnetic materials such as aluminum and titanium. The sensor should deliver
precise and reliable speed measurements for the turbopump, under low-temperature
conditions (-253 ° C) that are typical in aerospace environments.
Design and Development of Flow Meters Using Fiber Optic Sensors for future
launch vehicle applications (LPSC)
X1.3 Flow measurement of propellants such as Liquid Hydrogen (LH2), Liquid Oxygen (LOX)
and Isrosene (a semi-cryogenic grade kerosene) is critical for ensuring the proper
operation of propulsion systems in space applications. Precise flow measurement of
30

--- Page 45 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
propellants is essential during engine testing, stage filling, and propellant management.
Optical fiber sensors, specifically Fiber Bragg Grating (FBG), offer unique advantages
due to their high precision, resistance to harsh environments, and ability to operate
in extremely low-temperature conditions. Their compact design and lack of moving
parts make them well-suited for demanding aerospace conditions. Conventional flow
meters often face performance limitations in cryogenic environments due to issues
such as thermal contraction, mechanical wear, and susceptibility to electromagnetic
interference (EMI).
The main objective is to design, develop, and validate an optical fiber-based flow meter
capable of accurately measuring the flow rates of cryogenic/semi-cryogenic propellants
under extreme conditions. The developed flow meter should be highly reliable, precise,
and able to withstand the demanding temperature and pressure profiles associated
with fluids.
Scope:
• Sensor Design: Design a fiber optic-based flow sensor suitable for cryogenic/ semi-
cryogenic applications, including material selection and packaging.
• Prototype Development: Fabricate a functional prototype with optical sensing, signal
conditioning, and integration hardware.
• Testing and Calibration: Test the sensor using Liquid Nitrogen and calibrate against
standard flow meters.
• Performance Analysis: Evaluate accuracy, repeatability, thermal stability, and response
time.
• Optimization: Refine the sensor design based on test results for improved performance.
• Documentation: Submit detailed design with know-how documents, test data, and a
final technical report.
Y Area Materials & Manufacturing for Liquid Propulsion Systems (LPSC)
Forming Limiting Diagram (FLD) Generation and Optimization of Cold forming of
KC20WN Cobalt Based Super Alloy for Rocket Nozzle Divergent (LPSC)
Presently developmental PS4 divergent with KC20WN material is realised through
spinning and welding route in two half and joined together. The present proposal is
study the spinning/flow forming of KC20WN to optimise the processing parameters and
heat treatments towards realisation of divergent without cir-seam weld configuration.
Y1.1
The scope of works includes.
• Optimisation of spinning/flow forming parameter for KC20WN material towards
realisation of nozzle divergent.
• Detailed Microstructural and Mechanical characterisation of spun/flow formed
KC20WN.
• Optimisation of associated Heat treatment process.
31

--- Page 46 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Development of high entropy alloys/high performance alloys for application in
solenoid valves (LPSC)
Soft magnetic materials presently in use are typically limited to one or two in number.
These alloys have limitations in terms of permeability and saturation flux density
which hinders device miniaturisation. Also, for high performance alloys available in
the market today, poor corrosion resistance restricts their usage. Hence, an optimum
alloying composition which would give an optimum combination of soft magnetic
properties, good corrosion resistance and strength and also amenable to annealing, is
required to be developed. High entropy alloys (HEA)/high performance alloys are the
Y1.2
need of the hour. High temperature resistance also may be required for thruster valves
directly mounted on the thrusters to be capable of withstanding soak back temperature
excursions. The proposed work could involve application of AI & ML tools for the
development of a model for identifying the correct material mix for developing the
alloy. Modelling and experimentations to occur simultaneously. The model has to be
updated and trained based on data availability. Synthesis of the alloy also to form part
of the project. Finally the alloy has to be characterised using SEM, XRD and tested for
corrosion (for eg. using salt spray method), magnetic and mechanical properties and
improvements demonstrated.
Electropolishing of stainless steel and Aluminium alloy parts used in launch
vehicle & SC applications (LPSC)
Coupon level validation of electro-polishing of various grades of stainless steels like AISI
Y1.3
304L, AISI 202, 430, 15-5 PH & MDN 59 and aluminium alloys like AA6061 T652 & AA7075
T7352 (prior to anodization) as a single substitute for passivation, mechanical polishing
& de-burring.
Waveform engineering for MIG Welding power source to reduce residual stress in
XH67 Nickel-based alloy (LPSC)
Nickel-based alloy XH67 are vital in high-temperature oxygen rich environments but
suffer from significant residual stresses during thick section welding, leading to
distortion and potential strain age cracking. Waveform engineering in MIG welding,
which controls current and voltage patterns, offers a novel approach to mitigate these
stresses.
Y1.4
1. Investigate the effects of MIG welding waveforms (e.g., pulsed, double-pulsed,
modified short-circuit) on heat distribution and cooling rates in nickel-based alloys.
2. Simulate residual stress formation using finite element modeling (FEM) under various
waveform conditions.
3. Weld test coupons and measure residual stresses via neutron diffraction/XRD or
hole- drilling methods to validate simulations.
4. Optimize waveform parameters for minimal residual stress and high weld quality.
32

--- Page 47 ---
LAUNCH VEHICLE
Heat Treatment Optimization for DED and LPBF-Printed Inconel 718 Parts (LPSC)
AM processes like DED and LPBF produce Inconel parts with distinct microstructures
(e.g., fine grains/ residual stresses) compared to conventional methods. Standard heat
treatments may not suffice, requiring tailored approaches to unlock the full potential of
AM parts.
• Analyze the as-built microstructure of DED and LPBF-printed Inconel parts using
optical microscopy, SEM, and X-ray diffraction.
Y1.5
• Test heat treatment variables (e.g., temperature, time, cooling rate) to study
microstructural changes, including grain growth and stress relief.
• Optimization of Sub-Critical Annealing for Residual Stress Relief in Laser Powder Bed
Fusion (LPBF) Components without Inducing Powder Sintering.
• Measure mechanical properties (e.g., tensile strength, hardness, fatigue life) of treated
samples to determine optimal conditions.
• Formulate heat treatment guidelines specific to DED and LPBF Inconel parts.
Development and Qualification of advanced FSW techniques foe welding high
thickness AA2219 aluminium alloy for fabirication of launch vehicle propellant
tankage (LPSC)
Development and qualification of advanced FSW techniques viz. bobbin tool friction
stir welding (BT-FSW), robotic FSW, friction plug welding, for welding high thickness
AA2219 aluminum alloys (more than 13 mm) for fabrication of launch vehicle propellant
tankages.
Objective :
Y1.6
i. Design and realization of bobbin tool for FSW (BT-FSW) to meet optimum weld
strength requirements.
ii. Qualification of BT-FSW for welding higher thickness AA2219 aluminum alloys.
iii. Qualification of robotic FSW process for higher thickness aluminum alloys.
iv. Design and development of friction plug welding process for FSW repairs.
v. Weld parametric studies & preparation of Weld Procedure Specification (WPS) for the
aforesaid welding processes.
Y2 Sub Area Non- Destructive Evaluation of Liquid Propulsion Systems (LPSC)
Non-Destructive Residual Stress Assessment in Additively Manufactured metallic
parts through Ultrasonic (LPSC)
Residual stress can set during Additive Manufacturing, due to cyclic thermal expansion
Y2.1
/ contraction, which can lead to distortions, cracking, and failure. Amongst the popular
methods available for its assessment, ultrasonic methods are non-destructive, portable
and have potentiality to apply on actual parts. Few probable ultrasonic approaches
33

--- Page 48 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
include: measurements of stress-induced longitudinal and shear wave acoustic velocity
variations, measuring nonlinear coefficient of critically refracted longitudinal waves etc.,
to name a few.
The proposal is to establish a viable approach to non-destructively assess the residual
stresses using ultrasonics and its implementation on AM parts of various alloy grades
viz., In-718, SS316L, AlSi10Mg, Ti6Al4V, Cu-Cr-Zr etc. The objective is to develop a suitable
procedure to assess the residual stresses in AM parts using ultrasonics, performing RS
measurements on standard specimens as well as parts printed to actual configuration.
The results shall be validated using two or more of other established methods such as
Neutron Diffraction, XRD, Barkhausen Noise, hole drilling methods etc.
34

--- Page 49 ---
HUMAN SPACE PROGRAMME
HUMAN SPACE PROGRAMME
A Area Human Research, Space Medicine and Space Biology (HSFC)
A1 Sub Area Personalized Nutrition for Space Diets (HSFC)
Macronutrient Optimization (HSFC)
• Study how India metabolisms (e.g., insulin resistance, lipid partitioning) respond to
space food formulations (often designed for Western populations).
A1.1 • Test diets with adjusted carbohydrate-to-fat ratios to mitigate risks of hyperglycaemia
or dyslipidaemia in microgravity.
• Engineer nutrient-dense, culturally familiar foods (e.g., plant-based proteins, spice-
infused meals) to maintain dietary compliance and metabolic health.
Micronutrient Supplementation (HSFC)
• Investigate vitamin D requirements (critical for bone health and immunity), given
Indian’s baseline deficiency and lack of sunlight in space.
A1.2
• Assess iron metabolism, as Indians may have genetic predispositions to anaemia.
• Design nano/micro-carriers to enhance bioavailability of critical micronutrients (e.g.,
vitamin D, iron etc.) in space food formulations.
Gut Microbiome Interactions (HSFC)
A1.3 • Analyse how traditional Indian dietary components (e.g., fiber, spices) interact with
the gut microbiome in space, which affects nutrient absorption and inflammation.
A2 Sub Area Exercise Countermeasures (HSFC)
Muscle Preservation Strategies (HSFC)
• Evaluate resistance/weight-bearing exercise protocols to offset Indian’s lower
baseline muscle mass and higher risk of sarcopenia in microgravity.
A2.1 • Test hybrid regimens (e.g., vibration therapy, electrical stimulation) to enhance
muscle protein synthesis.
• Carryout muscle atrophy studies on suitable organisms due to microgravity and test
of countermeasures.
Visceral Fat and Inflammation (HSFC)
A2.2 • Study how microgravity exacerbates visceral adiposity-driven inflammation and
insulin resistance, and design aerobic exercises to mitigate this.
Adaptive Resistance Training Devices (HSFC)
• Develop compact, microgravity-compatible resistance systems (e.g., electromagnetic
A2.3
or pneumatic-based) to counteract muscle atrophy, tailored to Indians’ lower baseline
muscle mass.
35

--- Page 50 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Biomechanical Feedback Systems (HSFC)
A2.4 • Integrate wearable motion sensors with AI-driven feedback to ensure proper exercise
form and maximize efficiency in confined spaces.
Efficacy of yoga and breathing techniques (HSFC)
A2.5 • Study and develop yoga and breathing protocols to mitigate the effects of spaceflight
on human body.
A3 Sub Area Bone Health in Microgravity (HSFC)
Bone Loss Mechanism (HSFC)
• Compare bone resorption rates in Indian vs. Caucasian astronauts, given differences
A3.1 in baseline bone mineral density (BMD).
• Test bisphosphonates or other anti-resorptive therapies adjusted for Indian
physiology.
Calcium-Vitamin D Synergy (HSFC)
A3.2 • Optimize supplementation to counteract microgravity-induced bone loss,
considering genetic variants in vitamin D receptors.
Mechanical Loading Devices (HSFC)
A3.3 • Develop platforms to apply controlled mechanical loads on bones, counteracting
microgravity-induced bone loss in astronauts.
Smart Drug Delivery Systems (HSFC)
• Develop biodegradable implants or transdermal patches for sustained release of
A3.4
bisphosphonates, vitamin D, or calcium, tailored to genetic variations in vitamin D
receptors common in Indians.
A4 Sub Area Metabolic and Cardiovascular Monitoring (HSFC)
Early Detection of Metabolic Syndrome (HSFC)
A4.1 • Develop biomarkers (e.g., adipokines, inflammatory cytokines) to monitor insulin
resistance and ectopic fat accumulation in real-time.
Cardiovascular Deconditioning (HSFC)
• Study vascular endothelial dysfunction under space stressors (e.g., radiation, fluid
A4.2 shifts) in Indians, who are prone to earlier CVD.
• Test nitric oxide-boosting interventions (e.g., dietary nitrates) to improve endothelial
health.
A5 Sub Area Synergistic Effects of Spaceflight Stressors (HSFC)
Combined Stressor Studies (HSFC)
A5.1 • Simulate spaceflight conditions (e.g., radiation + microgravity + circadian disruption)
to assess cumulative impacts on Indian physiology.
36

--- Page 51 ---
HUMAN SPACE PROGRAMME
Radiation Sensitivity (HSFC)
• Evaluate if Indians’ predisposition to oxidative stress (linked to metabolic diseases)
increases radiation vulnerability.
A5.2
• Carryout radiation studies on extremophiles and murine models for the purpose of
studying the effect, inherent protection mechanism and drug efficacy for mitigation
including traditional medicines.
Space Analog studies (HSFC)
• Conduct studies on analog astronauts mimicking spaceflight stressors in
understanding physiological adaptation response.
A5.3
• Investigate how genetic/epigenetic factors (e.g., thrifty genotype) influence stress
responses.
• Test applicable countermeasures in analog studies.
Bed rest studies (HSFC)
• Investigate how genetic/epigenetic factors (e.g., thrifty genotype) influence stress
responses.
• Study the physiological and psychological adaptations of Indian astronauts during
A5.4 spaceflight, emphasizing genetic, dietary, and metabolic uniqueness. This should
Include studies on bone/muscle loss, cardiovascular deconditioning, and mental
health using appropriate microgravity analogs like head down tilt bed rest or dry
supine immersion.
• Test applicable countermeasures.
A6 Sub Area Telemedicine and AI-Driven Diagnostics (HSFC)
AI-Powered Predictive Analytics (HSFC)
A6.1 • Train machine learning models on Indian health data to predict risks (e.g., metabolic
syndrome, CVD) and recommend personalized interventions during missions.
Digital Twin Technology (HSFC)
A6.2 • Create computational models of Indian astronauts’ physiology to simulate responses
to space stressors and test interventions virtually.
A7 Sub Area Diagnostic tools (HSFC)
Multi-Biomarker Wearable Patches (HSFC)
• Continuously monitor glucose, cortisol, vitamin D, and inflammatory markers (e.g.,
A7.1 IL-6) through sweat or interstitial fluid. Integrate flexible electronics with machine
learning to flag deviations (e.g., prediabetic trends) and recommend dietary
adjustments.
37

--- Page 52 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Compact Blood Analyzer with Microfluidics (HSFC)
• Perform CBC, lipid profiling, and HbA1c tests using finger-prick blood samples using
A7.2
Microfluidic chips pre-loaded with reagents for anaemia and dyslipidaemia detection
having Self-cleaning mechanisms to function in microgravity.
Breath-Based Metabolic Analysers (HSFC)
• Detect acetone (marker for ketosis), ethanol (gut microbiome imbalance), and nitric
A7.3
oxide (vascular health) in exhaled breath using Miniaturized gas chromatography-
mass spectrometry (GC-MS) systems with AI pattern recognition.
Bone and Muscle Health Scanners (HSFC)
A7.4 • Develop Portable DEXA (Dual-Energy X-ray Absorptiometry) with features such as
Low-radiation, handheld to track bone mineral density loss.
Gut Microbiome Sequencer (HSFC)
A7.5 • Develop Pocket-sized DNA sequencer with CRISPR-based detection of pathogenic
bacteria.
Ocular Pressure and Retinal Sensors (HSFC)
• Monitor intraocular pressure (risks from fluid shifts) and retinal changes (early
A7.6
diabetic retinopathy detection) using portable Fundus cameras with auto-diagnostic
algorithms.
Autonomous Dental Diagnostic Tools (HSFC)
A7.7 • Develop AI-powered intraoral cameras with spectral imaging to identify enamel
erosion or gum inflammation.
Compact, Autonomous Ultrasound Devices (HSFC)
• Develop handheld, AI-guided ultrasound systems with automated probe placement
and image interpretation to monitor Visceral fat accumulation,Cardiac function
A7.8 (e.g., ejection fraction, vascular stiffness) and Muscle atrophy (sarcopenia) and
bone density loss (osteoporosis). The device should have Anti-drift stabilization for
microgravity imaging preferably with Radiation-hardened components and low-
power operation.
3D/4D Ultrasound Imaging (HSFC)
A7.9 • Develop volumetric ultrasound systems to assess organ morphology (e.g., liver for
NAFLD, kidneys for stone risks) in microgravity.
A8 Sub Area Biosignal Processing Research Areas (HSFC)
Real-Time Signal Denoising (HSFC)
A8.1 • Develop algorithms to filter motion artifacts (e.g., during exercise) and electromagnetic
interference in spacecraft environments.
38

--- Page 53 ---
HUMAN SPACE PROGRAMME
Multi-Modal Signal Fusion (HSFC)
A8.2 • Integrate ECG, EEG, EMG, and respiratory data to holistically assess stress, fatigue, or
neurovascular health.
Artifact Removal in Microgravity (HSFC)
A8.3 • Address unique challenges like fluid shift-induced signal distortions (e.g., altered
blood pressure waveforms).
Cognitive State Monitoring (HSFC)
A8.4 • Process EEG and heart rate variability (HRV) to detect mental fatigue or anxiety,
triggering VR-based relaxation modules.
A9 Sub Area Microbial Studies in Spacecraft Environments (HSFC)
• Investigation of microbial interactions, biofilm formation & symbiosis in spacecraft
environments for improving crew health management & spacecraft maintenance.
• Study pathogen behaviour and beneficial microbes in closed habitats to prevent
infections and enable bioregenerative systems.
A9.1
• Characterize microbiome shifts in Indian astronauts.
• Develop antimicrobial coatings and probiotics.
• Develop & test new sterilization and decontamination techniques for space missions
to ensure the safety & cleanliness of spacecrafts& habitats.
A10 Sub Area Drug Development (HSFC)
Drug efficacy (HSFC)
• Study physiological adaptations of Indian astronauts to microgravity and space
radiation, with emphasis on medical countermeasures, drug efficacy, and
personalized healthcare.
A10.1
• Does microgravity alter drug pharmacokinetics (absorption, distribution,
metabolism, excretion) in Indian physiology.
• Can traditional Indian medicines (e.g., Ashwagandha for stress, Turmeric for
inflammation) retain efficacy in space.
Drug stability and packaging (HSFC)
• Test stability of common medications (antibiotics, analgesics) and Ayurvedic
formulations in simulated microgravity (clinostats) and on ISRO’s microgravity
A10.2 platforms of PSLV and SSLV spent stage, Gaganyaan and future BhartiyaAntariksha
Station.
• Analyse degradation profiles using HPLC/mass spectrometry.
• Develop novel drug packaging to improve shelf life and efficacy.
39

--- Page 54 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Drug delivery(HSFC)
A10.3 • Develop novel drug Delivery mechanisms for space usage including endodermal
patches.
Traditional Medicine Validation (HSFC)
A10.4 • Screen and test Ayurvedic formulations for use in space conditions in murine models
and humans.
A11 Sub Area Space Biology (HSFC)
Cellular & Molecular Biology (HSFC)
• Research on the effects of microgravity, radiation & other stressors on cellular
processes, gene expressions & mutations, protein synthesis, cell signalling & tissue
regeneration.
A11.1
• Explore cellular repair mechanisms, stress responses & aging in the context of long-
term spaceflight missions.
• Develop & refine molecular tools & biomarkers for monitoring cellular health &
detecting potential issues in astronauts.
Plant Biology (HSFC)
• Study plant growth, development & reproduction in space environments to support
life support systems & nutritional requirements for long-duration missions.
A11.2 • Study plant stress responses & adaptations to spaceflight conditions including
changes in gene expression, morphology & physiology.
• Develop & optimize growth systems & nutrient delivery methods for efficient plant/
crop cultivation in microgravity environments.
B Area Microgravity Research (HSFC)
B1 Sub Area Physical & Chemical Science in Microgravity (HSFC)
Crew fire safety: Novel methods for fire (smoke) detection and mitigation(HSFC)
Flames behave radically different without buoyancy-induced convection of microgravity
environment. Hence, the behavior of fire and smoke differs significantly in the confined
microgravity environment of a space station, making it critical to develop effective
B1.1 methods for the timely detection and mitigation of fire.
This is essential to ensure the safety of crew and protect vital equipment on-board.
The scope of this study will involve advancing the understanding of fire behavior in
microgravity, and developing novel fire detection/ mitigation methods for space station
conditions.
Bubble mitigation strategies for micro-channels (HSFC)
Bubble formation is a common phenomenon observed in flow of liquids, especially in
a microchannel it becomes a major challenge as it can impede the flow of the liquid. It
B1.2 is important to develop bubble mitigation methods to prevent bubble formation and
ensure seamless flow behavior. The scope of this study will involve understanding the
bubble formation behavior in micro-channels and develop mitigation methods for the
same.
40

--- Page 55 ---
HUMAN SPACE PROGRAMME
Novel strategies for the use of methane in space stations (HSFC)
A general method for regenerative environmental control and life support system of
space stations is to perform Sabatier reaction and use CO and H in the presence of
2 2
a catalyst to control the CO levels. This reaction leads to formation of Methane and
B1.3 2
water. This methane is expelled out of space station using a vacuum exhaust system.
However, there may be ways to use this methane for applications and operations on the
space station. The scope of work involves studying the physical and chemical aspects of
methane usage in microgravity conditions.
Droplet in microgravity: Spreading dynamics, contact-line studies, evaporation,
oscillation and spreading (HSFC)
Droplets behave in a different manner in microgravity. Many aspects of the droplets such
as spreading, contact-line & wettability, evaporation, oscillation and even the shape
of droplet have a prominent effect on critical technologies such as development of
B1.4 coatings, combustion, in-situ printing, microfluidics, etc. There is an increased focused on
using droplets for studies and development, this spans from droplet-based combustion
to droplet – based bio-printing to optimizing industrial processes on Earth. The scope
of this study is to investigate the aforementioned aspects of droplets in microgravity to
enhance the understanding of droplets in space and assist the development of products
and processes designed for microgravity.
B2 Sub Area Equipment for Supporting Microgravity Research (HSFC)
Development of next generation microfluidic cards with integrated imaging (HSFC)
Microfluidic cards are required for conducting research that require automated precise
control of fluids. It can be a platform that becomes a habitat for micro-organisms. It
can also be used for conducting drug development, developing biosensors, etc. Overall,
B2.1
it is a versatile platform that has multiple applications for studies on space station.
The scope of the study involves development of microfluidics card based platform for
space, involving identification of bio-compatible materials, microchannel fabrication
techniques and integrated imaging methods.
Novel energy efficient refrigeration technologies (HSFC)
Biological studies in space station are heavily dependent on supporting equipment.
B2.2 Refrigerators are one of the most power hungry yet essential supporting equipment.
The scope of work involves studying novel energy efficient refrigeration technologies
meeting envelop, mass and power constraints of typical space station scenario.
B3 Sub Area Space Agriculture (HSFC)
Development of plant growth habitat for space station (HSFC)
B3.1 A plant-based food production system is crucial for supporting sustained human
presence in space, and acts ideal supplement for crew diet. However, growing plants in
41

--- Page 56 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
space requires developing controlled environment for providing water, lighting,
temperature, relative humidity, Carbon dioxide, and nutrients in required proportions.
The scope of work involves developing plant growth chamber compatible with space
station conditions.
C Area Human Spaceflight & Advanced Technology (SAC)
C1 Sub Area Optical and Quantum Related Technologies (SAC)
DWDM based 200 Gbps FSO link demonstration for future Terabit optical
communication (SAC)
Terabits of data rate will be required for future high-speed links for LEO satellites and
Intersatellite links for LEO constellations. Also high throughput satellites require 100s of
Gbps data to be transmitted through multiple gateways. RF bands are facing saturation
and limited to strict frequency regulation, leading to a requirement of large number
ground stations for feeder links. Increasing frequency demand from terrestrial wireless
communications also puts restriction RF frequencies and on feeder locations due to
C1.1 signal isolation requirement and practical operational issues. Multiple feeder stations
call for multiple terrestrial links involving multiple operators and puts signal security at
stake.
Technologies developed will be utilized for high data rate links for satellite-based links
(LEO –ISL, LEO GEO, GEO-Ground) as well as for optical feeder links for high throughput
satellites. A single optical feeder Station can cover vast geographical areas without
number of RF feeder stations and their terrestrial links, which requires vast amount of
ground infrastructure. These technologies can be extended to Terabits links for future
Optical communication and HTS links.
Multi Wavelength Fiber Laser Generation Technique (SAC)
Multi-wavelength laser generation from a single source of laser has attracted considerable
attention among researchers over the last few decades. The MultiwavelengthFiber Laser
Sources have potential Applications in dense wavelength-division-multiplexed (WDM)
in High Throughput Satellite in optical communication, optical instrument testing and
characterization.
Such light sources are particularly in-demand because they provide an efficient and
C1.2
economical solution to increase the flexibility of WDM system. It has various advantage
such as low cost and low insertion loss. The requirements for such optical sources are a
high number of channels over large wavelength span, moderate output powers with
good optical signal to noise ratio (OSNR) and spectral flatness, single longitudinal mode
operation of each laser line, tunability and accurate positioning on the ITU frequency
grid. Technologies developed in this research will be utilized for optical feeder link for
high throughput satellite.
42

--- Page 57 ---
HUMAN SPACE PROGRAMME
The scope of the work shall include to explore the several techniques used for multi
wavelength generation namely comb filter, cascaded modulation, Brillouin scattering
technique, and arrayed waveguide grating.
Compact Optical Terminal Development for Optical Inter-Satellite Link (SAC)
The upcoming data rate requirement need a paradigm shift from conventional RF
satellite link to free space optical link. RF link has some advantage over free space optical
(FSO) link where atmosphere is involved. But for inter-satellite link, FSO link is the only
viable solution in terms of size, weight and power. The added advantage of FSO link is
C1.3 high data rate, narrow beam width, low EMI/EMC etc.
ISRO has initiated the development for FSO inter-satellite link. The base band data will be
modulated using optical carrier which has frequency in THz. Using a compact terminal
consisting of optical telescope, optical communication subsystems and pointing
acquisition and tracking (PAT) mechanism, ISL can be realized. This will also effective
reduce the number of ground segment and will add space diversity.
Multi Wavelength Fiber Laser Generation Technique (SAC)
Multi-wavelength laser generation from a single source of laser has attracted considerable
attention among researchers over the last few decades. The MultiwavelengthFiber Laser
Sources have potential Applications in dense wavelength-division-multiplexed (WDM)
in High Throughput Satellite in optical communication, optical instrument testing and
characterization.
Microwave Photonic-based on-board processing will be a feasible solution to meet the
high-speed processing demand of next-generation broadband satellite system with
added advantage of lower mass, lower volume, less power consumption and better EMI
performance.
C1.4
The research areas in MWP are Microwave Photonic Filter, Photonic switching and Beam
forming. PIC based approach for the above areas are also initiated.
General Architecture of Microwave Photonics based Multi-beam Payload
Photonics based Processing Architecture
43

--- Page 58 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
High Power Er Doped Fiber Amplifier (SAC)
High power optical amplifier (EDFA) is inevitable for the realization of free space optical
communication link. This is the device, which amplify the 1550 nm optical signal
directly without the need of any electrical conversion. Er- doped fiber is popularly
used as the gain medium for optical amplifier. The Pump laser will provide the required
population inversion in Erfiber. Different pumping topologies e.g. forward pumping (co-
propagation), Backward pumping (Counter propagation) and Bi-directional pumping
(Co+ Counter propagation) is explored in the development to maximize the Gain,
C1.5 Saturated power and minimize the noise figure.
Fiber fusion and thermal management of fiber plays the crucial role on the operation
life EDFA. For any type of optical communication payload, EDFA serves the purpose of
power house to sustain the communication link. Though many commercial EDFAs are
available, those are meant for ground applications. For space based EDFA, there are lots
of design challenges in thermal design, optical fiber assembly, high power electronics
aspects. SAC have initiated the in-house development of EDFA in different phases with
mid and high power output targets. This development is being carried out in phases. At
present 5W output at ambient has been realized.
Higher Order Optical Switch For Low Latency Applications (SAC)
The increasing user demands required high throughput microwave and optical payloads
where onboard signal processing in photonics domain is the most viable option to meet
the latency requirements of reconfigurable networks.
In photonic switching there are several techniques such as optical MEMS, Semiconductor
C1.6
optical amplifier, waveguide and thermal. In this technology, selection and hardware
realization of the switch will be explored which has capability of high switching order
(16*16 or higher), switching latency (few nano sec.) in optical C-band. The Cross talk (
-40 dBc or better), polarization independent, transparent to data rate up to 10 Gbps with
suitable tele command and telemetry provision are the key features of the hardware.
Digital Signal Processing for Optical Coherent Receiver in BPSK, QPSK or Advanced
Modulation Format (SAC)
For advanced optical communication formats e.g. BPSK, QPSK, 8-PSK etc., the post
processing of electrical signal is inevitable after detection through coherent receiver
C1.7 with single polarization (X channel) or dual polarization (X and Y channel) multiplexing.
Several impairments cause the optical signal distortion and those effects need to
counter through algorithm. Main algorithm stage conventionally consists of Bessel
filtering, Resampling, Quadrature imbalance, non-linearity and Chromatic dispersion
compensation etc.
44

--- Page 59 ---
HUMAN SPACE PROGRAMME
The data rate is typically more than 10 Gbps. In such high data rate, the DSP using FPGA is
very challenging. There is a scope of code development for FPGA to mitigate the effects.
High Sensitivity Optical Low Noise Amplifier (SAC)
Low Noise optical amplifier (EDFA) is the front end of the optical receiver section and it is
inevitable for the realization of free space optical communication link. This is the device
which amplify the weak incoming optical signals for the detection by photodiode.
Single Mode Er- doped fiber is popularly used as the gain medium for optical amplifier.
The Pump laser will provide the required population inversion in Erfiber. Different
pumping topologies e.g. forward pumping (co- propagation), Backward pumping
(Counter propagation) and Bi-directional pumping (Co+ Counter propagation) is
C1.8
explored in the development to maximize the Gain with minimal added noise figure
and improved sensitivity.
To improve the link margin for the compact optical terminal the noise floor of the low
noise amplifier should be as low as possible to provide the best amplification with
minimal noise in incoming modulation signal.
SAC have initiated the in-house development of EDFA in different phases and
development is being carried out in phases. At present -63 dBm with 50 dB gain at
ambient has been realized as the state of the art worldwide.
Modeling of atmospheric turbulence parameters using radiosonde data and
estimation of localized Fried parameter(r ) for new OGS location (SAC)
0
Clear air turbulence phenomena affect the propagation of an optical beam because
the refractive index randomly varies in space and time. Mainly, random variation of the
refractive index of air depends on the air mixing due to temperature variation in the
atmosphere. In fact, sunlight incident upon the earth’s surface causes heating of the
earth’s surface and the air in its proximity. These effects happen at different points in the
C1.9 atmosphere, and hence it is worth discussing the structure of the earth’s atmosphere
briefly. There are many parameters to be considered for the atmosphere but the major
points are Refractive index structure constant (C 2) & Coherence length (r ). C 2 determines
n 0 n
the strength of turbulence and depends on the geographical location, altitude, and time
of day. Close to ground, there is the largest gradient of temperature associated with the
largest values of atmospheric pressure (and air density), therefore one should expect
larger values of C 2 at sea level. Typical value of C 2 for a weak turbulence at ground level
n n
can be as little as 10-17 m-3/2, while for a strong turbulence.
45

--- Page 60 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
it can be up to 10-12 m-3/2 or larger. The refractive index structure constant is related to the
temperature structure constant as C 2:
n
Ct is the temperature structure constant:
Theoretical models of measuring refractive index profile: Hufnagel-Valley Model (HV
Model):
Where h is the altitude, v is the rms wind speed & A is the turbulence level at ground
0
level.
HV model is generally valid for mid-latitude regions where turbulence such as temperature
gradients, humidity and wind speed differ from that of the Indian mainland.
Then defining r which is the diameter of an equivalent aperture where the telescope
0
resolution is approximately the same (diffraction limited) in absence of turbulence:
the larger r is the smaller the effects of turbulence on the propagating wave. Also, it
0
depends on Zenith angle, wavelength, structure constant variation, Height, etc.:
where θis the angle from the zenith in the slant path
As per the above equation turbulence, in a space-to-Earth satellite link one should
expect large atmospheric coherence length at the satellite (uplink), and smaller r with
0
more severe phase distortion at the ground station receiver (downlink). We measured
the r for Delhi throughout the year using Radiosonde data, which captures variations in
0
temperature and pressure with altitude as shown below.
Variation of r for 1 year of Delhi
0
46

--- Page 61 ---
HUMAN SPACE PROGRAMME
C2 Sub Area Atomic Clock Related Technologies (SAC)
Chip Scale atomic clocks (SAC)
Atomic frequency standards are the back-bone of the satellite navigation technology.
SAC has developed indigenous atomic clocks for India’s navigation programme –
IRNSS (NavIC). The key concepts of atomic clocks involve atomic spectroscopy; RF &
microwave electronics; microwave cavities; optics; low noise detection schemes and
digital electronics. In view of supporting the in-house R&D activities, further detailed
theoretical modelling can aid our practical work. Herewith, the following proposed
research on theoretical and experimental studies can enhance our activities towards the
C2.1
optimization of atomic clocks.
In the Coherent Population Trapping scheme, the use of microwave cavities can
be avoided to build atomic clocks. This can, in principle, bring down the size to a
considerable extent. The recent advances in chip-scale atomic clocks has been possible
due to CPT methods. Research need to focus on development of physics package of
chip-scale atomic clocks. Primary area of research include fabrication of Rb/Cs filled
micro-fabricated cell, Modulation of VCSEL for CPT interrogation and assembly of VCSEL
and Cell along with optics and heaters.
Studies on light-shift effects in atomic clocks and analyses of on-board clock jumps
(SAC)
Rubidium atomic clocks are the widely used clocks in GNSS for space based navigation.
These Rb clocks are prone to onboard frequency jumps, which results in the error on the
navigation signals. It is of utmost importance to understand the source of the jumps in
C2.2
the Rb clocks. The prima facie understanding has brought to notice that light-shift effect
is the main cause of these jumps. However, a detailed study is needed to quantitatively
understand the physics behind these jumps. Moreover, in this study the other potential
parameters such as the radiation effect, magnetic effects etc. need to be addressed
which may result in giving rise to clock frequency jumps.
Trapped mercury-ion atomic clock (SAC)
The trapped mercury-ion atomic clocks can reach stabilities and drifts, which are 1 and
2 orders (respectively) better than the rubidium lamp based RF clocks. These are strong
C2.3
potential candidates for the future deep space navigation missions alongside the current
NavIC missions. The area of research include study, design and demonstrate the trapped
mercury-ion-clock physics package meeting state of the art specifications.
Extraction of pure elements and their isotopes for atomic clock (SAC)
Atomic clocks rely on the precise and stable oscillations of atoms to measure time.
C2.4
Elements are available in naturally occurring compounds. The extraction of pure
elements and their isotopes is crucial for atomic clocks to ensure precision,
47

--- Page 62 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
stability and consistency in timekeeping. Pure natural mix of Rubidium, its isotopes
(Rb87 and Rb85) and Mercury isotopes (Hg202 and Hg199) are primarily used in space
atomic clock. Detailed research is required to develop efficient methods for extraction
and storage of such pure elements.
Development of PLL based synthesizer IC for Atomic Clocks (SAC)
Frequency Synthesizer is a crucial subsystem to generate precise RF signals in order to
interrogate atomic transition levels. Development of PLL based synthesizer IC with low
phase noise will greatly help in reducing electronic complexity and realization time of
atomic clocks. PLL Synthesizer IC to be developed with 10MHz (sine) input reference
C2.5
should have minimum 2 outputs with following capabilities,
A. 6GHz to 8GHz or wider main RF output, with a provision to frequency modulate it
with input signal of DC to 1KHz.
B. 30MHz to 100MHz or wider reference digital (CMOS/TTL/LVTTL/LVCMOS) output for
digital electronic circuits.
Travelling Wave Tube Amplifier (TWTA) (SAC)
It is one of the critical technology elements used for efficient high power amplification
in space borne payloads. Amongst all microwave amplifiers, TWTA offers unique
combination of power, gain, efficiency and bandwidth.
Research opportunity in the field of TWTA is primarily oriented around.
A. Development of large signal simulation tools.
B. Study & development of special UHV grade materials & special coating techniques.
on UHV material suitable for high temperature brazing.
C. Development of methods for texturing on copper surface for reducing SEE.
D. Techniques for measurement of high temperature stress & strain in complex shapes.
C2.6 E. Design & development of long life high reliable space cathode.
Future research areas include development of
A. Very high peak power Pulse TWTAs for radar applications.
B. Folded waveguide TWTA and Coupled cavity TWTAs for higher frequency band
power amplification.
C. Brazed Helix technology useful for higher CW power.
D. Microwave Power Modules – combination of Solid state amplifier and TWT with
advantages of both the technologies.
E. Flexible TWTAs for dynamic allocation of frequency, BW & power.
F. Filtered Helix TWT with improved harmonic suppression.
G. Cold cathodes.
48

--- Page 63 ---
HUMAN SPACE PROGRAMME
H. Mini TWT that can be placed right at the back of phased-array antenna.
I. High power source that can be beamed to Microwave rockets.
C3 Sub Area Human Spaceflight Related Technologies (SAC)
Human Spaceflight and Advanced Technology Area of ISRO has a well-defined roadmap
for conducting space flights with humans and development of technologies to support
the missions. Unlike other missions carried out by ISRO so far where mostly observation
or service-oriented hardware was flown as payload, HSP will carry humans (as payloads).
This creates bundle of opportunities for development of human centric technologies in
a large spectrum of domains and disciplines. Some of the technologies fall under the
category of ‘must haves’ while others can be innovative in nature, giving alternatives to
existing technologies or enhancing certain aspects of mission.
SAC is developing various systems towards HSP where audio, video and text
communication systems will enable end to end two-way communication between
ground command and astronauts. The technologies involved in this service include
following:
1. Compact, space qualified camera systems.
2. Baseband units to switch, encode, compress video and audio streams.
3. Noise cancellation based audio communication systems with versions, which can be
wearable and can be panel mounted.
C3.1
4. Modems for RF communications.
5. RF communication network elements like Solid state power amplifiers, switches,
filters etc.
6. Antenna systems including phased array antenna.
ECLSS (Environmental Control and Life Support System) is system of systems which
helps maintain earth like atmosphere inside habitat volume of crew module. This
primarily includes maintaining optimal oxygen level, removing carbon dioxide and
maintaining PTH (Pressure, Temperature, Humidity). SAC is engaged in developing EMS
(Environmental Monitoring System) which measures the values of oxygen and carbon
dioxide concentration in cabin environment along with PTH values. Methane and
ammonia are by product of metabolism in human body. Carbon monoxide is emitted
when something burns. EMS will also measure concentration of these trace gases to
keep check on environmental quality and hazard prevention.
A portable version of EMS called, HEM (Handheld Environment Monitor) also is
developed. Astronauts can use it to check presence of CO2 pockets, origin of trace gases,
tracing source of fire, emergency backup of EMS etc.
49

--- Page 64 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Fire is one of the prominent hazard on board human spaceflight mission. Detection of
fire is complex and many pronged approach is needed to evaluate a fire scenario. At the
same time, one false alarm can cause unnecessary mission abort. An array of sensors and
integration of data from all the sensors is necessary as part of fire detection architecture.
UV flame sensors and optical smoke sensors are first line of detection supported by data
from thermal cameras and temperature sensors. Change in gas concentration indices
also are included in decision making before raising fire alarm. Dousing fire is manual and
water mist based fire extinguishers will be used on board this mission.
First point of interaction for astronauts with their module is display system. As primary
situational awareness instrumentation, display system receives data from mission
computer in the form of parameter values like path, position, velocity and altitude of
orbiter module and displays it as combination of graphs, bars and text. Another set of
information is Environmental Control and Life-support Subsystem (ECLSS) parameters
and medical parameters of astronauts that displays on separate pages. Mission status,
date and time, list of tasks, warnings, alarms, text chat, video conferencing etc. are
facilitated through display systems. Astronauts can navigate between pages using
peripheral buttons on display. They can also command variety of actions using these
peripheral buttons, which change its role based on current context or display page.
In addition to large LCD displays, a dot matrix display is developed which will show only
critical parameters in alphanumerical formats.
Cabin lights are designed with white LEDs with intensity and color temperature control
to automatically sync with time of the day. This feature would help maintain circadian
rhythm of astronauts.
The most significant and critical phase of any human spaceflight mission is atmospheric
re-entry and subsequent rescue of astronauts at rendezvous point of landing. Various
systems are planned and being developed at SAC to support this phase of mission.
Radar Altimeter will be mounted beneath crew module to gauge exact altitude of crew
module and pass it to mission computer so that parachutes can be deployed at right
moment during descent phase. Location transmitter will read the precise location of
landing after splash down through NavIC and GPS and relay the data to rescue team
waiting at a safe distance in sea. An LED based high power VFB (Visible Flash Beacon)
mounted on top of crew module will aid the rescue team in visibly locating the module
in sea. Finally, a satellite phone in hands of astronauts with global coverage gives them
ability to stay in touch with mission control even in last mile of mission.
Following areas are identified where academia can contribute directly. Driving factors of
development shall be low mass, smaller volume, low power, environmental qualification
for space and human rating aspects in design. Introduction of new technologies and
50

--- Page 65 ---
HUMAN SPACE PROGRAMME
improvement in existing technologies for HSP, both are seen as potential contribution
from academia in this program. Indigenous development of these systems also adds
value. The developed technique should also consider feasibility of implementation
without affecting any of the existing functional requirements. Reliability aspects are
of utmost importance in HSP. Hence, development should target reliability aspects
right from concept formation stage and should be followed until building successful
prototypes. Certification of every system for HSP is a significant aspect of development.
Software used in such systems also undergo spell of certification. Certain design aspects
in hardware and software must be built from beginning to aid certification process
towards induction of hardware in an HSP mission.
Development of measurement systems and sensors for gas concentration (SAC)
Human Spaceflight requires continuous measurement of concentration of major air
constituents (O , CO , CH , NH & CO) and more than 200 trace gases including trace
2 2 4 3
volatile organic compounds (VOC) at ppm to ppb levels, which are relevant to astronaut’s
health. These are by-products of metabolism/combustion/chemical reactions in the
cabin.
C3.2
Measurement of these gases can be achieved by discrete sensors for each gas or by
holistic techniques like spectrometry. Both approaches have their own advantages.
Handheld measurement systems can use discrete sensors to build compact, light-weight
and battery powered systems. Other techniques can be used to measure array of gases
from the same sample. Indigenous development of compact and lightweight sensors
and other systems using laser, chromatography, Fourier transform techniques etc. have
good potential for present and future applications in HSP.
Development of mitigation techniques for Communication blackout during re-
entry (SAC)
A spacecraft entering the Earth’s atmosphere is enveloped by a plasma sheath which
results in complete loss or a severe decrease in the strength of RF signals between the
re-entry vehicle and the ground. This is referred as Communication Blackout. It results
in loss of voice communications and data telemetry during the re-entry of manned
space vehicles. The black-out duration can be up to 10-15 minutes and it occurs during
C3.3
the most crucial part of the vehicle’s flight. It coincides with the maneuver phase and
eliminates ground support during this vital portion of the re-entry phase. In case of an
accident during re-entry, this phase is important for post accidental analysis. Due to its
criticality, it is important to develop techniques to mitigate this problem. The theoretical
study and the analysis should be validated through the practical experiments. Practical
experiments may be conducted in the suitable plasma environment to validate the
following:
51

--- Page 66 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• Dependence of EM wave attenuation on plasma profile.
• Dependence of EM wave attenuation on operating frequency w.r.t. plasma frequency.
In principle, the most obvious way in which the reentry communication blackout
problem can be alleviated is by designing the communications system with a system
margin greater than the plasma signal attenuation encountered during reentry. Typical
plasma attenuation may exceed 100 dB, thus the required system margin is unrealistically
large and cannot be achieved in practice. Hence, other alleviation techniques should be
investigated which can be used in conjunction with the system margin. Worldwide many
experiments have been done using following techniques to overcome communication
blackout:
• By avoiding attenuation region in plasma sheath: Higher Frequency method.
• By reducing concentration of electrons in plasma sheath: Aerodynamic shaping,
Injection of coolants.
• By altering the properties of plasma to minimize its interaction with the
electromagnetic waves: Magnetic Field Method.
Development of techniques to enable communication during this phase or to mitigate
complete communication black-out can help existing and future missions of HSP.
Experiments and finding that can aid to the understanding of phenomenon also can be
seen as value addition.
Development of wireless communication systems (SAC)
Introduction of wireless networking enhances communication in the vicinity of a
spacecraft and also facilitates many aspects of communication within a spacecraft
including mobile crew monitoring and communication, environmental monitoring
and control, structural monitoring, and situational awareness. Wireless system designs
should also consider conditions of operational space environment.
C3.4 It is required to develop wireless systems that demonstrate reliable data transfer
across avionics components, subsystems, and interfaces to simplify system integration,
reconfiguration, and testing. Solutions that enable new avionic architectures and provide
capabilities that expand mission performance while decreasing the Size, Weight, and
Power consumption and cost of the resulting spacecraft are highly desirable.
Applications include sensors communication within habitat volume, communication
during Extra Vehicular Activities, video capturing of separation events etc.
Active Noise Cancellation for Crew Cabin System (SAC)
C3.5 Due to the presence of various payloads, instruments and other systems, the on-board
environment is inherently very noisy. Such high noise exposure for longer mission
52

--- Page 67 ---
HUMAN SPACE PROGRAMME
durations can cause damage to crew hearing system, result in crew efficiency reduction
and also hamper with on-going communication.
To reduce the effect of continuously present noise on crew communication system,
an active noise cancellation system can be designed and developed. With the help of
active noise cancellation, resultant noisy environment can be reduced and improved
QoS communication can be provided.
• Development of algorithm for Active Noise Cancellation in audio band.
• Development of ANC circuitry.
Study of In-flight identification and quantification of species in water for long term
space missions (SAC)
Long Duration Human Spaceflight requires continuous monitoring of water quality to
ensure crew health and safety. Water monitoring equipment like colorimetric water
quality monitoring kit (CWQMK) are already a part of the ISS. For our future space station
C3.6 and interplanetary travel requirements, it is important to initiate the developments of
these systems. These instruments would have immense applications in future space
station, interplanetary travel and other long duration space missions.
Development of apparatus, test setups for experiments related to above subject,
evaluation of data received from such experiments and development of mitigation
techniques for observed ill effects can help in current and future missions of HSP.
Assessment of flame spread of large scale microgravity fire (SAC)
Materials with high flammability must be assessed for the flame spread rate using HEAT
AND SMOKE RELEASE RATE TEST (Reference: NASA-STD-6001)
C3.7
Understanding nature of flame, process of combustion, rate of spread, mass consumption,
quantity and rate of heat release etc. can be taken up as study. Additionally, apparatus,
test setups and identification of methodology, both on ground as well as in micro gravity
also is needed to further the understanding of the subject.
Microbial monitoring in microgravity environment i.e. Non- culture based in flight
monitoring with species identification and quantification (SAC)
Microgravity can affect the growth and survival of microbes. The research on this topic
is essential to achieve safe and healthy long duration space habitation. Non-culture
C3.8
based in-flight monitoring with identification and quantification of microbial species is
targeted for the development.
This research would help in understanding the relationship between humans and
microbes, which may be affected hugely in microgravity. It will enable the understanding
53

--- Page 68 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
of how and where microbes proliferate in confined environment in space.Test setups
and instrumentation required for remote observations can be developed to achieve
the above mentioned purpose followed by findings and conclusions that may become
input or directive for future missions.
Disinfection technique and technologies for microbial control of water systems
and environment in microgravity (SAC)
Disinfection and de-contamination are highly essential to achieve safe and healthy long
duration space habitation. ISS has a decontamination system which was designed with
crew members’ safety in mind by using high-power, ultraviolet, light-emitting diodes (UV
LEDs) to sanitize surfaces. This cleaning process takes only a matter of minutes before
and after the crew conducts the experiments. The sanitation process also removes
C3.9 airborne contaminants -- such as biological and chemical impurities -- and cleans up
spills inside the glovebox, providing optimal accommodations for cell science and life
science research. It also has an exchangeable glove system that was redesigned to be
better suited for these types of studies.
These disinfection systems based various technologies like the Ultraviolet Germicidal
Irradiation (UVGI) method etc. are essential for long duration space missions/Space
Stations for disinfection/removal of microorganisms. Other alternate techniques also
can be developed which are safer and more efficient.
Application of AI and ML in crewed missions (SAC)
Currently, System controls are based on ground based command or crew inputs through
button/switch controls which require specific user action. Warning systems are based
on predefined criteria and thresholds. AI and ML are relatively in nascent phase as far as
space systems are concerned. However, the potential of technique and its application
C3.10 in future cannot be ignored. Hence, exploring possibilities of AI and ML in HSP is
encouraged with all potential applications. Some are listed below.
1. Voice based system commanding mechanism without restricting/requiring use of
any limb action.
2. An early warning system which learns from previous data to warn on possible
occurrence of a hazard.
Compact fire suppression systems for crewed missions for micro gravity
applications (SAC)
On board fire in HSP is one of the most serious on-board hazards. Every HSP mission
carries fire suppression system. FSS should be safe for humans, should be quick
C3.11
and efficient in dousing fire, should be clean and its application should be safe for
onboard electronics. Fine water mist based FSS is in use onboard ISS now. Indigenous
development of compact, portable, easy to use and safe FSS is needed for current and
future HSP missions.
54

--- Page 69 ---
HUMAN SPACE PROGRAMME
Research in microgravity is indispensable to disclose the impact of gravity on biological
processes, organisms, materials, fire and functional systems. “True” weightlessness, for
more than a few seconds at least, can only be achieved in space or zero-g flights in
atmosphere. Drop towers, drone based agile platforms etc. have potential to bring out
microgravity experiment platform. Test setups, approaches, new ideas to carry-out such
tests can be used in existing and future missions of HSP.
Next generation fire detection systems (SAC)
Fire is one of the most critical on-board hazard for any HSP mission. Detection fire is of
paramount importance. Sensors must have very high sensitivity to variety of fire, flame
and electric spark. At the same time, it should offer high immunity to false detection.
Most mission experiences have reported early detection by humans through smell,
C3.12
rather than on-board sensors. Development of “Electronic Nose” which can detect very
low concentrations of combustion products can help in early detection of fire.
Fire is detected by measurement of concentration of specific gases, heat, temperature,
flame etc. Novel approaches n detection, new parameters that can aid to detection of
fire also is needed to enhance the fire detection scenario.
Display and other situational awareness technologies (SAC)
Visual information (for situational awareness) is made available to the crew either
through print pages or displays. A more effective method should allow crew to quickly
access context based information.
Development can be focused on fixed and portable display devices with higher efficiency
C3.13 (lower size, mass and power) and better human centric aspects, taking advantage of
advancement in display panel technology like flexible films displays etc.
Augmented reality based devices can be used to provide context based information to
the crew for information such as visual alert, holographic communication and object
information. AI and ML can be included in such systems to make them more efficient
and effective.
Instrumentation for docking (SAC)
Docking of spacecraft with space station or other manned modules for human or cargo
transfer is an autonomous activity in most contemporary HSP missions. ISRO envisages
development of these technologies to support automated or assisted docking while in
orbit. Laser based or other types of ranging systems, camera based video systems, RF
C3.14
based systems are required for beacons, altimetry or distometry, velocimetry, optical flow
techniques, close range photogrammetry and other parameters of situational awareness
either in assist mode or in close loop mode for automated docking. Development of
sensors, integrated systems and demonstration models can help in future docking
missions of HSP.
55

--- Page 70 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
56

--- Page 71 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
A Area SATCOM and Navigation Payloads (SAC)
A1 Sub Area System Engineering (SAC)
LEO Constellation for Regional Coverage: (SAC)
Advance technological changes in satellite communication has led to reduced payload
manufacturing cost & launch cost per kg to Low Earth Orbit (LEO) orbit which has
made LEO orbit a popular choice for broadband connectivity from space. LEO orbit
has major advantage of lower latency and ability to cater smaller user terminals.
Broadband LEO constellation can complement the terrestrial networks by serving
unserved and improving Quality of Service (QoS) in underserved region. Such networks
can be integrated with future technologies like 5G, 6G & Internet of Things (IoT) where
connectivity between the devices is a prime requirement, which is major concern for
devices located in extreme topography with no terrestrial connectivity.
The research areas in this field include:
• Development of algorithm for inter-satellite link dynamic routing/handover for data
downlink/uplink to/from gateways
A1.1
• System studies on integration of LEO broadband constellation & future terrestrial 6G
technologies
• Development of on-board resource management algorithm based on user demand
• System study and algorithm development for LEO-GEO & LEO- Medium Earth Orbit
(MEO)-GEO multilayer constellation routing
• Development of single aperture multi-beam, compact and light weight antenna
integrated with compact lightweight trans-receiver module
• Development of compact ISL terminals for LEO-LEO and LEO-GEO communication
• Compact ISL terminals for LEO-LEO, LEO-GEO communication: compact optics,
pointing and tracking system, optical modulators etc.
• Development of translucent/transparent on-board processing digital system based
on commercial processor/FPGA technology
Software Defined radio based Satellite architectures for Future Satcom systems
(SAC)
In present scenario, low cost small satellites (Micro or Nano Satellites) are being launched
or planned for launch on LEO orbit to provide communication services over the Globe.
A1.2
Small satellites provide an efficient and cost effective solution to different communication
services as compared to bigger satellite platforms targeted for GEO orbit. Due to their
low mass, power and volume envelope, the payload also has to be designed considering
these constraints.
57

--- Page 72 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Software defined radio (SDR) based payload architectures can provide solution for
compact/miniaturized design which requires low mass, low DC power consumption
& less volume. Present SDR systems can receive/transmit signals directly at RF level
up to C-band. This will eliminate the requirements of the complex frontend hardware
which in turn provides savings in mass, volume and DC power consumption. SDR based
communication payload architecture is well suitable for Indian Nano Satellite Bus (INS)
and Indian Micro Satellite Bus (IMS). SDRs will also be useful for future communication
payloads for GEO/LEO satellite.
• Common RF transceiver (single chip/module) having RF front end and Digital
subsystems (direct sampling based ADC and DAC modules) to operate from UHF to
Ku band frequencies.
• Studies and implementation of different signal processing algorithms for regenerative
processing and flexibility in terms of channelization and bandwidth.
• Development of integrated wideband RF front end with LNA, Bandpass Filters &
Precautionary and Liquidity Line (PLL) on RF Transceiver module.
• Development of Direct Sampling based ADC and DAC modules which can be
integrated with wide band RF front end.
Hybrid Satellite/Terrestrial networks and their compatibility with 5G cellular
system (SAC)
As the spectrum resources are becoming limited and trend is towards delivering high
speed data rates in both satellite and terrestrial mobile communication. Hybrid network
of terrestrial and satellite systems complementing each other shall be developed for
ubiquitous coverage, seamless connectivity and high data rates.
Research areas in this direction are:
• Studies on Satellite – Terrestrial system architecture compatible with 5G Networks
A1.3
• Channel modelling considering both land-mobile and earth-to-space channels
• Investigation of Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO), precoding and other
signal processing techniques for enhancing capacity of mobile satellite systems and
ensuring coexistence of terrestrial and satellite systems.
• Protocol level integration of satellite and terrestrial system and development of
satellite-5G testbed.
• Investigations on satellite platforms and terminal architectures complementing
terrestrial 5G networks.
Development of signal processing and resource allocation algorithms for multi
gigahertz on-board processors (SAC)
A1.4
With the advancement in signal processing capabilities, the trend is towards
channelization and processing of wideband signals covering gigahertz bandwidth.
58

--- Page 73 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Similarly, the necessity to dynamically and efficiently allocate a communication payload’s
on-board resources such as power and bandwidth over the desired coverage requires
the development of algorithms for beamforming-precoding, beam-hopping etc.
Research areas in this direction are:
• Development of signal analysis algorithms for wideband signals (multi-gigahertz
bandwidth). Sparse signal analysis/compressed sensing based algorithms can be
targeted.
• Development of translucent processing algorithms which bridge transparent and
regenerative payloads through partially decoding packets on satellite.
• Development of algorithms for beam-hopping, digital beamforming, and precoding
for efficient spatial allocation of on-board resources.
• Satellite system design and architecture for multi-gigahertz signal processing
payload.
Studies on Advanced Navigation systems (SAC)
Satellite navigation has become a key infrastructure element worldwide, enabling
numerous applications along with great economic activity. These systems have been
conceived as cornerstone of the national security and playing that role effectively. The
significance of these systems is evident from the fact that currently there are six global
navigation satellite systems (GNSS) which are either operational, under deployment or
modernization. The system capability is evolving in both civil and defence domains.
Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System(IRNSS) system is now a full-fledged
operational system which is providing navigation services over Indian region. The
evolving user requirements and global scenario will certainly require continuous
research and development to acquire and utilize newer technology in this field. Few
such potential areas are enlisted below:
A1.5
• Use of IRNSS signals for navigation with “signals of opportunity” of terrestrial networks.
• Systems studies for autonomous satellite navigation for MEO constellation.
• Development of simulation tools for situation awareness for navigation end users
supporting their mission planning. Such tools will consider the complete navigation
systems and provide the information about the system accuracy, availability, integrity
and reliability for any operational situation.
• System studies on provision of standalone Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT)
services for the missions on extra-terrestrial bodies like Moon/Mars.
• End-to-end performance analysis of IRNSS signals in LMS channels using software/
hardware simulation platform.
• Research on security features of navigation signals such as anti-spoof and message
authentication.
59

--- Page 74 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• Studies on navigation signal generation, multi-level signal/sub-carrier design and
multiplexing using multicarrier constant envelope modulation schemes.
• Studies of various signal modulation schemes like Minimum Shift Keying (MSK),
Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying (GMSK), Orthogonal Frequency-Division Multiplexing
(OFDM), etc. as potential candidates for the future navigation signals. Studies should
also include overall receiver performance analysis for such signals.
• Studies of interference mitigation techniques like wavelet based de-noising or other
compressive sensing methods on receiver performance.
• Research in utilizing space service volume capability of GNSS signals.
• Clock ensemble algorithm development for improvement of on-board timing system
performance.
Space based Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Automatic
Identification System (AIS) (SAC)
Automatic Identification System (AIS) is a universal ship-borne terrestrial system used to
improve the maritime safety and efficiency of navigation by enabling ship to ship and
ship to shore communication.
Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) is the aircraft surveillance
technology in which aircraft provide data such as position, velocity, and identification
from on-board aircraft systems.
AIS and ADS-B both rely on message transmitted by users regarding their navigation
status/location. Space based AIS and ADS-B augment the surveillance capability beyond
A1.6 the terrestrial system range with global coverage (remote, polar and oceanic areas),
unrestricted by location. AIS & ADS-B payloads, hosted on low earth orbit (LEO) platforms
receive AIS/ADS-B messages, process them and relay them back to ground for usage by
service provider to end user.
Satellite receives the message from multiple AIS and ADS-B terminal at a same time
which causes on-board message collision or messages may get garbled. Since, this is an
upcoming area, there are several challenges:
• Development of On-board algorithm for detect, de-collision and decode of AIS and
ADS-B message in low SNR (<9 dB).
• Development of low-size, weight and power (SWaP) digital processor.
• Development of low noise sensitivity (<-105 dBm) AIS and ADS-B RF front end.
Next Generation Data Relay Satellite System (NexGen-IDRSS) (SAC)
ISRO has conceived and is developing a Data Relay Satellite System i.e. IDRSS primarily
A1.7
to provide Data Relay Services to Gaganyaan mission. In addition, it is also capable
of providing TM/TC services to LEO satellites as well as high data rate relay link from
60

--- Page 75 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Antarctica. However, IDRSS first generation of satellites are targeted for specific
missions. In addition to the services provided by the IDRSS 1st generation satellites, next
generation of IDRSS satellites will have enhanced capabilities to provide higher data rate
services to a variety of users. Some of the services, which will be targeted through these
satellites, are:
• High Data rate relay link from Antarctica station
• Audio/Video/data relay to Human space flight mission.
• High data rate relay from LEO imaging satellites.
• Audio/Video/Broadband Internet services for Bhartiya Antariksh Station.
The payload will require following technologies to be developed to cater to these
services:
• Large Deployable Antennas of the order of 4.5 mts in foldable configuration for better
G/T and EIRP performance in S-band
• Advanced Phased Array Antenna for targeting multiple LEO satellites for TM/TC
operation
• Microwave/Optical Intersatellite links for High Data rate optical communication
between satellite to satellite and satellite to ground operation.
• Advanced single channel Mono-Pulse Tracking system.
Interplanetary Communication System (SAC)
The recent increase in lunar missions, like landing, manned lunar mission and returning
on the South Pole region and demonstration of technologies related to robust thermal
systems for the operation of spacecraft for more than one lunar day (~14 Earth days)
for exploration of the lunar South Pole region, paves the way for planning future lunar
missions. Further, interplanetary missions like Venus and Mars landing missions are also
planned by ISRO.
The planned lunar and interplanetary missions would require interplanetary
communication system for supporting a moon habitat, high resolution imagery,
interplanetary exploration and safety-of-life service for manned missions. The
A1.8
interplanetary communication system requires constellation of small satellites, deep
space data relay satellite network and RF beacon system for establishment of high data rate
connectivity, local network, connecting with International Mobile Telecommunication
(IMT) systems and search & rescue system in emergency situation.
Interplanetary Communication System Network:
Utilization: Support for future human missions to moon and future interplanetary
missions with high-speed data communication.
Technologies:
• New waveform, network protocol design as per existing terrestrial standard
61

--- Page 76 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• Interoperable communication system design
• Re-configurable, miniaturized antenna/RF/Digital subsystems, advanced one/two-
way ranging, orbit determination, and autonomous operation
• Tolerance to extreme temp. variation, radiation, vibration, shock, etc.
• Satellite aided search & rescue system based on position estimates using Doppler
tracking
• RF beacon deployment mechanism on the moon or Mars surface
• Reliable and continuous communication among lander, rover and orbiter for long-
term exploration
Millimetre-wave Satellite Communication Systems (SAC)
The ever increasing demand for data and the proliferation of digital communication
devices has led to a spectrum crunch in conventional satcom bands. To increase the
available bandwidth for user terminals in Ku and Ka bands, it is proposed to shift the hub
frequencies in Q/V bands or W band. While there are several challenges such as limited
technological readiness and severe atmospheric impairments, the advantages obtained
from freeing a large section of Ku/Ka spectrum are quite significant. Similarly, it is also
A1.9
proposed to have LEO constellations in Q/V bands offering high data rate broadband using
small user terminals. Towards this several technologies and studies can be carried out:
Research areas in this direction are:
• Channel modelling and availability analysis for Indian land and Indian ocean regions
in Q, V and W bands.
• Design of phased array based multibeam transmit/receive antennas for high data
rate communication incl. development of beamforming core chips.
A2 Sub Area Digital Systems for Future Communication Satellites (SAC)
The current success of satellites is primarily in the fixed satellite services, broadcast
satellite services and broadband/internet-related satellite services. In the satellite
communication business, the trend for ever-increasing capacity, flexibility and availability
of service, as well as increasingly more affordable, more compact, lighter, and even more
stylish and ergonomic ground and personal terminals, has become need of the present.
It is also believed that satellites in future still play a key role in providing mobile services
A2.1
despite the setbacks that came with early market failures.
Onboard digital signal processing has potential for offering innovative satellite services.
Availability of space-qualified high-capacity high-speed Field Programmable Gate
Array (FPGAs), availability of high-speed Analog to Digital Converters (ADCs) / Data
Assimilation Converters DACs and development of specialized-function Application
Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) have made advanced services a reality. Managing
62

--- Page 77 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
mass, power, complexity, functionality and reliability for such payload is of paramount
importance for offering services at acceptable cost. The emphasis worldwide is on:
• Increasing the performance (i.e. service availability)
• Quality of experience(i.e. less delay)
• Reducing cost/bit of information
• Efficient use of spectrum
• Network integration with terrestrial system
• Flexibility (i.e. reconfigurable payloads)
• Integration with navigation and observational satellite systems
• Security of communication
• Resistance to interference and jamming
The accomplishment of above tasks would require developing techniques for:
• Innovative and efficient spectrum processing and sensing algorithms
• Innovative techniques, protocols and architecture
• Innovative business models
The satellite technology is divided in to two major category
1. Communication satellite related technology
2. Navigation satellite related technology.
A3 Sub Area Communication Satellite Related Technology (SAC)
Advanced Coding and Modulation for Satellite Communication (SAC)
Recently the terrestrial communication system of fiber optical cables has grown
tremendously. In order to develop a harmonious infrastructure with terrestrial
communications systems, the speed of satellite communications must be increased to
meet the speed of terrestrial communications system. It is useful to consider a so-called
Internet satellite and its development.
One generation of 10 years may be long, but it must be reasonable because it may be
about a generation of infra structure. An Internet satellite is meant one that provides
A3.1
fixed, broadcast and mobile satellite communications.
Current Situation and challenges
Most of the communication satellite in ISRO like Indian National Satellite (INSAT)
and Geosynchronous Satellite System (GSAT) class of series satellites used mostly
Quadrature Phase Shift Keying (QPSK) and Binary Phase Shift Keying (BPSK) modulation
system. The reason of using these modulation systems, because of their simplicity and
better performance compare to other modulation systems in satellite communication
scenario. They are still the popular choice, even in worldwide satellite communication
63

--- Page 78 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
scenario. There are two major approaches for modulator design heterodyne and
homodyne. Heterodyne approach basically involves two level of up conversion i.e. the
first modulation at Instruction Fetch (IF) label and then up conversion to desire Radio
Frequency (RF) frequency. In homodyne approach involves direct conversion from
zero IF to desired RF frequency. Till now mostly all major modulator design is based
upon heterodyne based approach. But now current state of art design is based upon
homodyne approach. Following figures shows direct S and Ka band modulator design
for Gaganyaan project. The challenges are left in these modulation are to handle high
data rate, where the hardware or component used earlier design will not be useful. The
other challenges are reduction of size and power consumption of such system. So, high
data rate system using our current modulation scheme with reduces size and power is
the current challenges.
Block Diagram and DVM model of Ka Band Modulator
Channel coding for satellite communication (SAC)
The large distance between the transmitting spacecraft and the receiving earth station
and the limited transmitting power result in a very poor signal- to-noise ratio at the
A3.2
receiver side. The consequence is a large amount of transmission errors. At the same time,
the data bits are highly compressed before transmission to allow as large as possible a
64

--- Page 79 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
number of images to be transmitted in the limited data rate. But especially compressed
data bits are very sensitive to transmission errors. Therefore, channel coding method is
also one of the most important technologies.
Current Situation and challenges
Currently most of the satellite made by ISRO used convolutional code with different code
rate 1/2, 3/4, 7/8 in concatenation with Reed-Solomon (RS) code in some of the satellite.
This type of channel codec works well since last 20 years in satellite communication world.
However due to increasing in demand of quality of service and several upcoming deep
space explorations, it is now essential that change channel codec for future mission. The
Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems has suggested few of the channel code
for future satellites and deep space explorations. The current state of the art channel
codec is
• Turbo convolutional codes(TCC)
• Turbo product code (TPC)
• Low density Parity check code(LDPC)
New channel coding Scheme
For our satellites and deep space mission Turbo convolutional code and LDPC code are
the two main area of thrust for future mission.
• Turbo Convolution Code
Parallel-Concatenated Convolutional Codes (PCCC), known as turbo codes,
allows structure through concatenation and randomness through interleaving. The
Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems (CCSDS) Telemetry Channel Coding
Recommendation establishes a common framework and provides a standardized basis for
the coding schemes used by CCSDS Agencies for space telemetry data communications.
This standard traditionally provides the benchmark for new and emerging coding
technologies Turbo codes have an astonishing performance of bit error rate (BER) at
relatively low Eb/No. Turbo codes were chosen as a new option for this standard in 1999,
only 6 years since their official presentation to the international community: this was
the first international standard including turbo codes. The reason was the significant
improvement in terms of power efficiency assured by turbo codes over the old codes of
the standard. In Chandrayaan-1 mission of ISRO, we have used Turbo convolutional code
as per CCSDS standard 131.0-B-1 for low data rate telemetry application. We have also
planning to use this turbo code for human space program.
• Low density parity checks code (LDPC)
The another important error correcting code, whose performance close to Shannon limit
know as low density parity check code. The LDPC code is also a close contender of turbo
code. LDPC codes have a remarkable performance with iterative decoding that is very
65

--- Page 80 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
close to the Shannon limit. When compared to the decoding algorithm of convolution
code, LDPC decoding algorithm has more parallelization, low implementation
complexity, low decoding latency, as well as no error-floors at high Signal-to-Noise Ratio
(SNR) as turbo code. The next generation satellite communication systems e.g. digital
video broadcast satellite/terrestrial (DVB-S2/T2) have readily adopted LDPC code for
Forward Error Correction (FEC), mostly due to its near Shannon performance at very low
signal to noise ratio. However, the channel code performance also depends upon the
modulation scheme.
The use of advanced channel coding techniques (e.g. TC and LDPC codes) is the state-of-
the-art technology used in current satellite systems to provide broadcasting services to
fixed terminals in the Ku/Ka frequency bands into two-ways (i.e. Digital Video Broadcasting
– Second Generation (DVB-S2) in the forward link and Digital Video Broadcasting –
Return Channel via Satellite (DVB-RCS) in the return link, respectively), in which the
Additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) channel is usually assumed. In particular, DVB-S2
considers irregular LDPC codes of either 16200 or 64800 bit code words and 11 coding
rates (i.e. ranging from 1/4 to 9/10). With respect to DVB-RCS, double-binary turbo codes
are assumed with 12 frame sizes (i.e. ranging from 48 to 752 bit couples) and 7 coding
rates (i.e. ranging from 1/3 to 6/7).
Sync word less Concatenated RS and convolutional code encoder and decoder
development
The recommended concatenated coding system in satellite communication consists of
a Reed-Solomon outer code and a convolutional inner code (which is Viterbi decoded).
In typical scenario there is requirement of sync word for synchronization for RS decoder,
which lead to reduce the overall efficiency of data transmission and also the overall
throughput. The proposed activity will remove the requirement of sync word in each
data packet which will improve the overall data efficiency. The proposed activity will be
useful for future payload like Gaganyaan etc.
Digital Processors for High Throughput Satellites.
Conventional high throughput satellites employ limited, RF based processing due to
unavailability of wideband signal processing hardware. For future high throughput
satellites, it will be necessary to employ processing techniques to distribute the on-
board resources in an optimal fashion and extract the maximum possible throughput.
The relevant research areas would be:
1. Development of system on chip with integrated wideband, direct sampling data
converters and RF transceivers.
2. Development of on-board partially or fully reconfigurable, failure tolerant, Multi-core
Processor based signal processing system
66

--- Page 81 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
3. Development of multi-channel wideband adaptive signal processing system for
digital beamforming and channelization in broadband multi-beam communication
payloads.
4. Data compression algorithms for inter-board data communication.
Precoding for V/High Throughput Satellites
Precoding is to counteract the multibeam interface when high/full frequency reuse is
employed in V/HTS so that noncomplex UTs can maintain a high Signal to Interference
plus Noise Ratio (SINR), even the same carrier frequency is used by adjacent beam. To
achieve this precoding employs the channel state information (CSI) toward each UT to
mitigate the interference. Signal processing for optimization of precoding matrix and
implementation of Precoding function in next generation V/HTS. Some research areas
are calculation of Precoding Matrix, and Efficient Implementation of Precoding Matrix in
satellite.
A4 Sub Area Navigation Satellite Related Technology (SAC)
Modulators for Navigation Satellites (SAC)
This Satellite Navigation has revolutionized the navigation world, opening new
opportunities in an increasing number of sectors that require high precision. ISRO has
taken up the project for the implementation of an independent regional navigation
system currently known as Navigation with Indian Constellation (NavIC). The project
Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS) envisages establishment of regional
navigation system using a combination of Geostationary Orbit (GEO) and Geosynchronous
Orbit (GSO) spacecraft’s. NavIC is already providing two types of services restricted and
unrestricted services or public domain services in L5 and S Band. Binary offset carrier
(BOC) and Binary phase shift keying (BPSK) is use for these services. In NavIC, we are
using different method for combining these two modulation scheme in order to get
constant modulation envelope i.e., the total transmitted power does not vary over time.
A4.1 So that the transmitted information is not contained in the signal amplitude and the
transmitted signal amplitude becomes less critical. However, in future NavIC satellite we
are going to transmit L1 band signal also for better interoperability and compatibility. In
L1 band, we need comply the power spectral density of Multiplexed binary offset carrier
(MBOC) modulation. There are other navigation players, who are transmitting their own
custom modulation scheme in L1 band. These are mention below.
• CBOC: The Composite BOC is the solution adopted by Galileo for the Open Service in
E1/L1.
• TMBOC: The Time-Multiplexed BOC is the solution adopted by GPS for L1C.
• Quadrature Multiplexed BOC: Adopted by compass.
A suitable modulation scheme, which comply MBOC power spectral density may design
and develop to complete the future requirement.
67

--- Page 82 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Coding Scheme (SAC)
Like other wireless communication signals, navigation signals are subject to noise,
multipath and shadowing effects which may induce errors in the received data. Modern
navigation signals employ some techniques to detect and correct these errors.
Galileo, modernized GPS as well as space-based augmentation systems (SBAS) (e.g.
Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), European Geostationary Navigation Overlay
Service (EGNOS)) messages make use of FEC. In the following the various error protection
techniques used by these systems are described and some details are given for the
encoding and decoding processes. The fundamental principle of channel coding is to
add redundancy to the navigation message, which is used by a receiver to detect or
correct possible errors in the received symbols. The redundant bits added by the encoder
are a function of the original information. The original bits may or may not be directly
visible in the encoded message. In the first case the encoding is called systematic while
in the second case it is called non-systematic.
Channel coding techniques can be further divided into block codes and convolutional
codes. Block codes operate on fixed sized blocks of data, each of which are encoded
A4.2
separately, while convolution codes operate on a continuous stream of input data. Both
kinds of codes are employed in Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), a few of which
are detailed in following Table.
Recently china (Compass) is also transmitting signal in L1 band having own custom
Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem (BCH) and LDPC codes. In NavIC signal, we are also
planning to transmit L1 band signal for better interoperability and compatibility.
So there will be a need to develop custom channel coding of navigation signals.
Optical Interconnects for High Speed Signal and LO distribution (SAC)
There is a need for High bandwidth (BW) serial data transmissions. Optical Interconnects
are required to minimize power consumption, mass and volume. They are practically
A4.3 lossless propagation in an optical fiber within a Digital sub-systems module. The other
significant advantages are Immunity to Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) and Electro
Magnetic Compatibility(EMC), are mechanically flexible and galvanic ally isolated and
provides low phase noise degradation.
68

--- Page 83 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
High-Performance DSP for Software Defined Payloads (SAC)
To meet the requirement of high speed and reconfigure software defined payloads,
a high performance Digital Signal Processors (DSP) processor which can meet space
electronics quality guidelines are required. Their performance should be benchmarked
A4.4
for following applications
1. DVB-S2 modem: 2 Gb/s transmit, 1 Gb/s receive
2. Fast Fourier Transform FFT (complex 16 bit fixed-point): 150 GOPS (Giga Operations
per Second)
Digital Cancellation Scheme for High-Order Passive Intermodulation Interference
(SAC)
Passive intermodulation (PIM) is a phenomenon that additional signals at new
frequencies (not only the harmonic frequencies) are generated when signals containing
A4.5 two or more different frequencies are processed at the passive devices, such as duplexes,
cable connectors, waveguides and antennas. PIM would worsen the antenna gain-to-
noise-temperature (G/ T) value, thereby further disrupting the whole system. A full-
digital PIM canceling adaptive scheme can be explored based on Least Mean Square
LMS algorithm.
Onboard Clock Ensemble for clock anomaly handling (SAC)
To improve the clock accuracy in future navigation payloads it is required to generate
the output frequency signal based on an ensemble of input clocks with optimized
performance and improved robustness by clock anomalies handling. Following three
A4.6 algorithms can be developed: Measurement Filtering (MF), based on a cascade of low-
pass recursive filters with exponential window functions. Clock Fault Detection and
Correction (CFDC), with associated logic based on MF outputs, onboard Clock Ensemble
(ONCLE), based on weighted averaging according to filtered frequency information
covering clock anomaly handling.
On-board Autonomous Orbit Determination of Navigation Satellites using
inter-satellite ranging (SAC)
Autonomous orbit determination of a navigation constellation is the process by which
the orbit parameters of navigation satellites are autonomously calibrated onboard the
A4.7
satellites without the need for external aids. It commonly uses a satellite onboard data
processing unit and a filtering method to process the measurements of inter-satellite
ranges. The onboard data processing unit is the main module of autonomous navigation
systems.
69

--- Page 84 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
FPGA/ASIC Design Methodology (SAC)
Following areas for research in FPGA/ASIC Design for onboard signal processing:
• 28 nm Fully Depleted Silicon On Insulator (FD SOI) to be evaluate for low power
Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) development for future high speed
A4.8 Digital Subsystems
• Formal Verification to Verify Single Event Upset (SEU) Mitigation Techniques for
increasing design reliability
• High Level Design Methodology for faster design rollout
• Linux Operating system for space applications.
A5 Sub Area Development of Ferrite Material for Space Use (SAC)
Microwave circulators and isolators are used in communication payloads to improve
impedance matching and to avoid multiple reflections. Ferrite material is used in the
waveguide junctions because of its non-reciprocal properties, resulting in circulation
when magnetized.
Understanding the structure of the ferrite material requires knowledge of chemistry,
theory of magnetism in ferrites, the non-reciprocal characteristic of ferrite junction
at microwave frequencies due to gyromagnetic effect, which involves physics and
advanced mathematics.
The important properties of a ferrite are:
Saturation Magnetization, Ms: This property is related to the spontaneous alignment
of electron spins parallel to the applied magnetic field.
Gyromagnetic Line width, ΔH: It is a measure of ferrite magnetic losses in the vicinity
A5.1
of ferromagnetic resonance.
Effective line width, ΔHeff: It is a measure of ferrite magnetic losses for off-resonance
operating points (below and above resonance).
Spin wave line width, ΔHk: It is a measure of attenuation factor of spin waves excited
above a power level.
Magnetization temperature coefficient, α: It is a measure of relative change in
magnetization with respect to temperature.
Curie Temperature, Tc: Temperature above which ferrite material has no magnetic
properties.
The table below shows the ferrite material properties sought for to be used in circulators
for space use:
70

--- Page 85 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Application Requirement Material Property
Low Power Circulator/ Low Insertion loss, Wide Minimum ΔHeff, α
Switch Bandwidth, Compact
Maximum ε
Ms as per the frequency
High Power Circulator/ Low Insertion Loss, High Minimum ΔHeff, ΔHk, α
Switch average and peak power
Ms as per the frequency
handling
High Tc
Research undertaken/to be taken up in Ferrite Devices at SAC
1. Low power and High power Wideband Coaxial circulator
2. High power waveguide circulator at Q-V band and millimeter wave
3. Ferrite Phase shifter
4. High power and low power Ferrite switches
A6 Sub Area Amplifier Technology (SAC)
The microwave and RF amplifiers present in various communication and navigation
payloads includes low, medium and high power amplifiers over different frequencies
ranging from UHF to Q/V-bands. III-V group (Gallium Arsenide (GaAs) and Gallium
Nitride (GaN))based semiconductor technology in the form of discrete RF transistors and
Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuits (MMICs, packaged & unpackaged) are being
utilized for the design and realization of high performance solid state amplifier circuits
and subsystems.
The next generation satellite communication systems require high output power
amplifiers with high efficiency and linearity in small size, low weight having better
reliability. To meet the desired performance from amplifier subsystems, control circuits
like digital attenuators, phase shifters, voltage variable attenuators, switches etc. are
A6.1 also designed, realized and successfully used in various payloads in the development
of channel amplifiers and Solid State Power Amplifier SSPAs. At the lower end of
frequency spectrum, at UHF to C-band, availability of GaN technology is offering newer
breakthrough in realizing the power amplifiers which may even be replacing Travelling
Wave Tube Amplifier (TWTA) in future satellites.
The Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System (IRNSS) provides regional navigation
satellite system using a combination of GEO and GSO spacecraft over the Indian region.
GaN based SSPA are emerging as a viable alternative to TWT amplifiers especially at L
and S-band used in these navigation satellites.
Scope of the work exists in the area of simulation and design of medium to high power
compact SSPA with size comparable to TWTA or even smaller. ISRO had already designed,
developed and successfully demonstrated communication at Q/V-band in one of its
71

--- Page 86 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
mission. High throughput satellites are being proposed at millimeter wave band in
future, requiring further technology development utilizing state-of-the-art techniques
in the development of miniaturized driver amplifiers and high power SSPAs with highly
efficient RF power combining techniques. There is a requirement of wideband, high
power MMIC power amplifier designs upto V-band. To achieve higher power, low loss
combining techniques and development of planar or 3D miniaturised RF power dividers
and combiners are required at these frequencies.
ISRO had also designed and developed a 2-channel Switch Matrix at Ka-band utilizing
high isolation Single Pole, Double Throw (SPDT) switch MMICs and split block assembly.
There is research scope in developing state of the art packaging technique for preserving
high isolation from such RF switches. There is also research scope in development of
thermal modelling and thermal management techniques for high power amplifier
MMIC. Multi-function MMIC design & development for driver amplifiers and multi-
channel transmit modules are also new areas of research.
Areas of research are:
• Wideband, high power SSPA & Channel amplifiers in UHF, L, S, C, Ku, Ka and Q/V-band.
• GaN based high power compact SSPAs at UHF, L and S-Band.
• High power amplifier GaAs and GaN MMIC designs.
• State-of-the-art technology for design & development of compact SSPA at Q/V-band
with waveguide RF interfaces.
• Spatial power combining techniques at millimeter wave frequencies.
• High efficiency Continuous Waves (CW) SSPAs with associated thermal & power
management.
• Implementing Efficiency enhancement techniques in S, C, Ku-band Power amplifier.
• Thermal modelling & thermal simulations of MMIC power amplifiers.
• Modelling & simulation of entire amplifier module consisting of MMICs for the effects
of bondwires, package cavity etc. on RF performance at Ku-band & beyond.
• Design & development of ASIC for the tele-command interface control circuit for
channel amplifier & SSPAs.
• Design & development of high isolation switches and voltage variable attenuators at
Ku & Ka-band.
A7 Sub Area Reconfigurable Filters for Satellite Communication (SAC)
The use of reconfigurable payloads in satellite provides significant advantage over
A7.1 current state-of-art satellite configurations. Re-configurability of payload allows for
multimode and multifunctional operation. Agility opens the way for reconfigurable
72

--- Page 87 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
payloads that can be tuned during mission time while in orbit. The ability to reconfigure
the operating frequency band offers key advantage to adapt long-lifetime satellites to
rapidly evolving user requirements.
Flexible Payload Configuration
A switchable filter bank can act as alternative solution to a tunable filter where discrete
flexibility is required. One such approach, used in the past, employs multiple IMUX and
OMUX units, addressing different frequency plans, with extra RF switching functionality
to change between them. This solution, however, is costly both in terms of added
component costs and the increased mass and volume of the satellite.
Reconfigurable Filters
Microwave Filters used in the communication payload have very stringent in-band and
out-of-band requirements. If Tunable/Reconfigurable filters are used to replace these
filters in payloads, they must meet these stringent requirements. In particular, they must
have High Q, maintain required bandwidth, must have reasonable return loss and should
provide required rejections at specified frequency points. These filters should also be
able to meet average and peak high power requirements. High Q filters presently used
in the satellites are primarily made from 3-Dimenssional Waveguide Cavity Resonators,
Dielectric Resonators or Coaxial Resonators. Filters made from these resonators meet all
the stringent requirements of the payload including high power handling. Depending
upon the application, frequency of operation and power handling requirement, one
of the above resonator technology is chosen for realizing payload filters. Tunable/
Reconfigurable filters required for the satellites will also be required to be realized using
these 3D resonator technologies to meet payload requirements. Most of the present
day research has been focused on micostrip based tunable filters or SIW based tunable
filters. The important constraints related to High power, High Q applications makes these
reconfigurable technologies unsuitable for payload applications.
Recently, some progress has also been made in the tunable 3D high Q filters using
mechanical motors, piezoelectric actuators and micromechanical switches for aching
73

--- Page 88 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
desired tenability. Some of the major challenges involved in the development of such
3D high Q tunable filters are:
• Maintaining required bandwidth and reasonable Return Loss over wide tuning range.
Non-uniform variation in resonant frequency of various resonators of the filter and
variation in coupling values (External & Internal) of the filter with frequency could
lead to degradation in Return loss of the tunable filter.
• Maintaining High Q over wide tuning range. Tuning of resonator over wide tuning
range could lead to significant reduction in its Q-factor.
• Ensuring High average power handling capability and required Multipaction margin
of 6dB. Implementation of tuning mechanism should not lead to degradation in
power handling capability of the filter.
• Qualification of Tunable filter for Space Application. Tunable Filter along with its
tuning mechanism, should endure QM level environmental tests.
• Ensuring required Reliability of the tunable filter and its tuning mechanism over its
operating life. Reliability of the tunable filter could be impacted due to wear and tear
of moving parts or due to increase in the number of parts.
• Minimizing the power consumption and complexity for the tunable filter.
Recent Advances in Reconfigurable Filters:
Though, the optimal design of Tunable/Reconfigurable microwave filter suitable for
payload application is yet to be developed, many researchers around the world are at
work with this goal in mind. To obtain a tunable cavity filter and thus a tunable mux, the
resonant frequencies of the resonators that comprise the filters must be reconfigured.
Depending on the resonant mode and its electromagnetic field distribution used in the
cavities, this can be achieved by different approaches. These approaches have led to
various results in terms of achievable unloaded Q factor, spurious-free tuning range,
or mechanical simplicity. Tuning can be performed using mechanical, magnetic, or
electrical commands. Some of the recent advances in the field of 3D tunable filter are
given below:
Mechanically Tunable waveguide cavity filters (SAC)
a) Bellow-Mounted Tunable Filters (SAC)
Waveguide cavity filters have been widely used in satellites, due to the high-Q and high-
power handling capability. In addition, cross-coupled circular-waveguide dual-mode
A7.2 filters, typically operating in TE113 mode, offer mass and size reduction and excellent
RF performance. Mechanically tunable waveguide cavity filter maintains both High-Q
and high-power-handling capabilities. A mechanically tunable waveguide filter can be
implemented using bellows. The bellows is a flexible electroformed copper structure
which acts as a tuning element. It is a thin-walled (nominally 0.002-in thick) metallic
74

--- Page 89 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
closed-end piston with a designed profile and specific number of convolutions. The
bellows-mounted tunable filter offers a very low loss performance over a wide tuning
range. A very stable transmission response over a very wide tuning range is also a
distinctive feature of this technique. However, there is a tradeoff between RF and
mechanical performance when designing a bellows profile. Mechanical operating
characteristics are maximized by increasing the number and amplitude of convolutions,
whereas RF performance relies on bellows with fewer convolutions.
Fully Tunable TE011 Cavity Filters (SAC)
A fully tunable filter for a completely flexible transponder requires tunability of both
the bandwidth and center frequency of the filter. RF performance of the filter should be
maintained over wide tuning range. In cylindrical cavity filter operating in TE011 mode,
electric field strength and current distribution approach zero at the edge of the cavity
end walls making it possible to use tuning discs without Q degradation, which in turn
leads to the potential for incorporating small and low power consumption motors due
to the contactless tuning feature. A movable plunger with diameter smaller than or
equal to that of the cavity is used for filter tuning.
The A contactless plunger is used to provide a reactive short-circuit condition at the back
of the metal disc ensuring good electrical contact, creating a near shortcircuit condition.
This type of plungers consists of quarter-wavelength transformers. The three-section
plunger incorporates two low-impedance sections and one high-impedance section.
Providing an RF enclosure to the resonator prevents unwanted modes from interfering
and degrading the operating TE011 mode. The achieved Q of approximately 10,000 for a
Ku band filter is reported in the literature. This design, however, has narrow spurious free
window due to presence of low-Q TM111 mode.
Coaxial Tunable Filters (SAC)
A7.3 Coaxial resonators offer moderate-Q and have been implemented for satellite channel-
filtering applications. Coaxial technology is suitable for tunable filter applications
75

--- Page 90 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
because of the ease of tuning, which is a well-known characteristic of coaxial resonators.
A design of a manually tunable coaxial filter is shown in following figure. In this design,
Tuning is achieved by rotating a shaped cam above the resonator post which in turn
changes the capacitive loading of the resonator. Variation in capacitive loading required
for tuning resonant frequency of coaxial resonator can also be achieved by varying the
height of tuning disk used at the top of the resonator.
Synthesis and Analysis of Microwave Filters Based on Available
A8 Sub Area
Computational Methods (SAC)
To design a microwave filter, synthesis of electrical circuit is required. Synthesis generates
complex polynomial for filter transfer function. Coupling matrix synthesis is a popular
approach for extraction of the electrical parameters from the complex polynomials. The
extracted parameters of coupling matrix are the circuit building blocks for a required
filter response realization.
The coupling matrix can be configured/modified for any desired topology of the filter and
its corresponding (transmission/Reflection) response. Methods for direct optimization
of the coupling matrix for desired transmission/reflection response are also available
in literature. Prospective and retrospective use of the coupling matrix for any desired
RF response for adaptive resonator topology can be very helpful for time efficient and
better electrical performance designs.
Software development for numerical electromagnetic analysis and optimization of
standard geometries like rectangular, circular, coaxial resonator based microwave
filters with GUI will initiate efforts towards indigenization of Electro-Magnetic (EM)
A8.1 solvers. The scope of software development can be further expanded to more complex
geometries. Numerical electromagnetic techniques like Mode matching, Finite Element
Method (FEM), Finite-difference Time Domain (FDTD) can be used depending the nature
of geometry. The existing Commercial EM tools are highly expensive and hence good
amount of foreign exchange can be saved after successful completion of this activity.
Reflectionless Microwave filter
A long-overlooked opportunity to enhance the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and dynamic
range within a signal chain and to reduce harmonics/spurious content within these
circuits is to address a seemingly innate property of filters: their out-of-band reflective
behaviour. Reflectionless filters utilize a novel circuit topology to effectively eliminate
the standing waves created by traditional filters without additional components (such
as pads). This unique property gives designers a new way to improve the system
performance of a wide array of broadband circuits, or any circuits suffering from out-of-
band impedance mismatch. The typical performance of conventional filters (reflective
filters) only exhibited a matched impedance at its ports within the filter’s pass-band.
76

--- Page 91 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
The stop-band regions of these filters are intentionally designed to have very poor
impedance match. As a result, undesired stop-band signals, including harmonics,
interference, and noise, are all reflected from the filter ports back through the signal chain.
If these unwanted signals are reflected back to another reflective device, a standing wave
effect emerges. This standing wave will persist and build on itself until the attenuation
of the transmission path between the two reflective components dampens and absorbs
the unwanted signal energy. The reflectionless filter is a set of filter topologies and
designs that inherently exhibit a broadband matched impedance. The major advantage
of reflectionless filter topology is that these filters are readily cascadable, so sharper
roll-off and greater stop-band rejection may be achieved by adding filters as modular
building blocks. The figure below shows the improvement of the receiver chain with the
introduction of reflectionless filter.
The problems of (a) intermodulation expansion in a receiver’s low-conversion stage due to
multiple out-of-band RF signal power reflections produced by reflective-type filters and
(b) mixer conversion gain reduction resulting from generated standing waves in
interconnection transmission lines. LPF: low-pass filter; IF: intermediate frequency.
77

--- Page 92 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Recent Advancements
Reflectionless Bronchopleural Fistula (BPF) devices developed mostly in planar
realizations. However, to much lesser extent they are also have been demonstrated in
other technologies. Below are the technologies where nonplanar reflectionless BPF
components have been demonstrated are shown in figure:
1. MMIC and low-frequency technologies: Reflectionless BPFs in MMIC technologies
are demanded for modern, energy-efficient, compact RF front-end chains.
A theoretically perfectly matched symmetrical BPF network with even- and
odd-mode subcircuit compensation, an integrated, passive, two-port absorptive BPF
is developed. This prototype exhibits a quasi-elliptic-type bandpass filtering response
centered at 2.5 GHz with return loss levels above 15 dB from dc to 10 GHz for a chip
area of 1 mm2. It should be noted that commercial counterparts of this solution are
already available showing promise for deployment in future RF transceiver modules.
On the other hand, although, thus far, they are used only in low-pass filtering
components (which can be easily extended to BPF ones after appropriate lowpass-
to-bandpass frequency transformations), the novel classes of reflectionless filters for
very low-frequency applications. The future need is to demonstrate and extend this
concept for Ku and Ka-band.
2. Acoustic wave technology: BPFs in acoustic wave realizations are leading
frequency-selective devices in mobile communications systems, due to their high
quality factor (Q) and compact footprint However, most show some major limitations in
terms of their very narrow operational bandwidth and frequency-static filtering transfer
function being mostly of the reflective type and because of their spurious mode creation.
By efficiently combining the acoustic-wave lumped, element resonator (AWLR)
concept presented in for enhanced-bandwidth, quasi-elliptic-type BPF realization
with the complementary diplexer approach.
3. Multilayer technology: The exploitation of microstrip-to-microstrip vertical
transitions with slot line resonators in multilayer schemes has proven its potential in
the development of ultra-wideband BPFs aimed at broadband and RF receivers. Using
this concept and the lossy-stub-loading philosophy for reflectionless BPF design,
new ultrawideband BPFs that simultaneously exhibit a very broad, symmetrical,
reflectionless behaviour can be developed shown in figure.
78

--- Page 93 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Examples of reflectionless BPFs in nonplanar technologies. (a) An input reflectionless AWLR- based
BPF using a complementary diplexer approach for TZ tuning. (b) A symmetrical, reflectionless,
wideband BPF on multilayer technology using input/output multistage lossy stubs. (c) A
symmetrical reflectionless BPF with substrate-integrated coaxial resonators using a two-port
complementary diplexer approach.
Ceramic filters
As the name implies, RF & IF ceramic bandpass filters are manufactured from ceramics
that exhibit the piezo-electric effect. One of the most common ceramics used is known as
Lead Zirconate Titanate (PZT), lead zirconium titanate. The ceramic element uses its very
high Q mechanical resonances to provide the resonant feature. They have bandwidths
that are typically measured between 0.05 and 20% of the operating frequency. Often
the Q levels range between around 500 up to 10 000.
Ceramic filters are electronic components that are widely used in IF and RF bandpass
filter applications for RF circuit design in radio receivers and transmitters and the like.
They may also be used as resonant elements in a variety of electronic circuit designs.
79

--- Page 94 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
A9 Sub Area Receiver & Frequency Sources Technologies (SAC)
Compact, low power consumption and small volume are the system requirements of all
times. In this direction a major emphasis and thrust has been provided over the years
for development of miniature Low-Noise Amplifier LNAs, Receivers and Frequency
converters over frequencies ranging from UHF to Q/V band. MMIC technologies combined
with advance packaging techniques are being utilized for various communication and
navigation payloads. Higher operating bandwidths and gain requirements combined
with stringent spurious performance poses a challenge for development of compact
systems as stringent filters are also to be incorporated.
Areas of Research are:
A9.1
1) Beam Forming Receiver
2) Receiver Design for Doppler Shift
3) Flexible Receivers in terms of frequency and bandwidth
4) Design and development of RF switches, Variable Valve Actuation (VVA) and Video
Graphics Array (VGA) upto Q/V band
5) Fully integrated Receiver (RF, Local Oscillator (LO) & DC/DC in single package)
6) Medium Power Beacon Sources
7) Design of Synthesizer Integrated Circuit (IC)s
A10 Sub Area Electronic Power Conditioners (SAC)
Electronic Power Conditioners designed to supply power in wide range for RF (Transmit
and receive section) and Digital Processors of communication and navigation payloads.
EPCs are designed with efficient power conversion topology, high switching frequency,
EMI mitigation, low output noise, output voltage sequencing, load sharing, temperature
compensated output voltages and categorized as miniaturized low power for RF front
end, highly efficient high power for power amplifiers and high peak current channelizer
for digital processors. EPC from 1 W to 650 W output power designed and developed for
A10.1 space applications are modular HMC based EPC card embedded in Receiver package,
EPC for dynamic load switching of digital processors, EPC for pulsating load of iRAFS,
EPC for Modulators, high power EPCs for 250 W SSPAs etc.
New EPC development emphasizing the high frequency miniaturized EPCs, advance
noise mitigation techniques in compact footprint of EPC, very low voltage (~0.8V) and
high peak current EPCs for digital processors, efficient very low noise modular supply for
digital devices. to meet the requirement of subsystems of upcoming digitized SDR, HTS
and LEOCOM communication payloads.
GaN FET based EPCs (SAC)
A10.2 Wide bandgap semiconductors such as the Gallium Nitride (GaN), and Silicon Carbide
(SiC) are promising transistor technologies for future generations of power electronics
80

--- Page 95 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
circuits. GaN FET-based DC-DC converter is useful for space applications in that GaN
FET has a high immunity and it becomes less susceptible for any false turn-on due to
ionizing radiation.
GaN FET EPC for LEOCOM The present EPC (40W-50W output power) design using
Teledyne GaNFET TDG650E60BEP as power switching element is realized to power
15W C-band SSPA. All the components are available in space grade except the GaNFET
which is a plastic package and hence, qualified only for LEO applications. In an effort
to miniaturize EPC size while increasing efficiency, it becomes challenging task in high
power EPCs to achieve required goal.
GaN FET EPC for GEOSAT: The present EPC (10W output power) design using Intersil
GaN FET ISL70024 (Intersil Driver ISL70040) as power switching element is realized
to power low power RF subsystems. All the components are available in space grade.
Achieved efficiency of the converter is 70% at 10W output power and 400KHz switching
frequency. Further increase in switching frequency (above 500 KHz) with high frequency
PWM controller is being designed and development is in progress. EPC is featured with
no wall mount components, can be integrated in same package with RF subsystem.
Active EMI Filter (SAC)
With increase of switching frequency of dc-dc converter reduces the size and weight of
the power supply on the one hand, and leads to more serious EMI problems on the other
hand. Conventionally, a second-order passive electromagnetic interference (EMI) filter
is used to mitigate the conducted EMI noise generated by the power converter. These
A10.3 passive LC filters tend to be bulky and could occupy up to 30% of the system volume.
Active EMI filters, on the other hand, offer dynamic and adaptive filtering capabilities,
enabling precise control over the attenuation of EMI across a broad frequency spectrum.
The presently designed AEF has been tested with two EPC boards having switching
frequency of 110KHz and 230KHz. AEF was able to attenuated the switching frequency
noise around 37 dB and 20 dB respectively.
15 W HMC Module for low power RF subsystem (SAC)
With the advent of advanced high-throughput communication satellites, requirement
of RF front end subsystem will be in larger number, hence the development low power
HMC dc-dc converters that can cater power supply requirement of all types of low power
RF subsystem is very essential. This low profile HMC module can be used as embedded
card in package of with RF subsystem. It will improve EMI performance and compactness
A10.4
of package.
Hybrid DC- DC converter is realized by implementing the ICs chip and wire technology,
by increasing the switching frequency which drives the ability to use smaller magnetic
components. Most of the low voltage DC to Dc converters Module available is operating
at internal switching frequency up to 500 Khz for space use, few of them are design for
1MHz.
81

--- Page 96 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
The present Triple output 15W HMC at switching frequency 510 KHz is designed by
using flyback converter topology along with post regulators for better cross regulation
with turn -ON/OFF voltage sequencing between positive and negative supply lines.
Protection features are ULVO, current protection with primary as well as secondary side
current sensing circuit at positive voltages and foldback at negative output voltage line.
HMC includes TM and TC interface circuit. Efficiency of HMC is around 65 % at max load
condition. This low profile HMC is suitable for all types of low power RF subsystem i.e.,
Rx, DA, LNA, converters and other sub systems. Size of the HMC is 75 * 105 * 16 mm^3.
90W HM-EPC module along with post regulators (SAC)
The evolution of new generation FPGAs demands highly efficient and reliable power
management systems to meet their growing performance requirements. EPC along with
post regulators need to be designed in well-coordinated manner to manage number of
output power rails required by digital subsystems.
The EPC is designed with active clamp forward converter with synchronous rectification.
A low power flyback converter is also implemented to derive low power output and
generating housekeeping supplies. The Substrate level testing is completed. Size of
A10.5
HMC is 3.2’’x 3.2’’ x 0.7’’.
Whereas post regulators are designed with advanced POL and LDO regulators. HMC
with three tunable outputs (0.8V-1.9V @9A, 1.8V to 2.5V @4.5A, 1.8V to 5V @1A) is to be
designed.
Some of the post regulators demand PMBus controlled low voltage and high current
output like 0.8V @45A. Droop control, fast dynamic response, capacitive loading, low
PARD and stringent load regulation; are the major challenges. GaN based Synchronous
buck converter is tested for the application.
Planar Technology Development (SAC)
Towards the self-reliant, in-house Planner technology development will put thrust to
A10.6
low profile miniaturized DC to DC converters for payloads. Developed single output
Transformer for 100W EPC, Vin: 70 ±5V, Vout: 5V ±1V OR 3.5V ±1V @ 10Amp.
Development of Digital controller simulator for EPC realization (SAC)
Development of software and hardware toolkits shall be carried out, that allow fast
prototyping of any power controller.
Digitally Programmable controller reference kit can be developed, which is a hardware
board that contains DPC chips and auxiliary circuits along with all its signal interfaces.
A10.7
Once connected to PC and power components, it allows designer to program power
controller algorithm, that will help faster implementation and realization.
Scope of research proposal:
• Complete theoretical analysis of EPC including modelling and simulation with suitable
topology selected.
82

--- Page 97 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
• Simulation and circuit optimization for dual& four phase controllers
• Incorporation of advanced techniques to miniaturize the size and increase the
efficiency of the EPC like low magnetic loss, synchronous rectification etc.
• Miniaturize the design with high frequency operation and use of GaN switching
device.
• Designing of efficient HMC layout maintaining signal integrity while reducing
board size and obtaining higher switching frequency above 500 kHz up to 1MHz.
Implementation of planar magnetics within the HMC.
• Low loss Turn -On sequencing circuit for multiple high power output voltage lines in
a single converter.
• Loss breakup analysis to maximize EPC efficiency.
• Complete theoretical analysis of AEF with EPC including modelling and simulation.
• Implementation of AEF in higher switching frequency converters above 500 kHz up
to 1MHz.
• Designing of efficient Printed Circuit Board (PCB) layout maintaining signal integrity
while reducing board size and obtaining higher switching frequency above 500 kHz
up to 1MHz.
• Further optimization of compensation network to achieve desired attenuation over
wide range of frequency.
• Realization and delivery of AEF + EPC with compliance of electrical specifications.
• Realization and delivery of EPC with compliance of electrical specifications of all of
the subsystems.
RF Characterization of Communication and Navigation Payloads
A11 Sub Area
(SAC)
Planar Technology Development (SAC)
Communication payloads include bent pipe, SDR based and spectrum processing
configuration. Navigation payloads have data transmitter type configuration, which
provide Position, Velocity and time solution to user. These payloads are characterized
for different parameters such as IO transfer curve, frequency response, group delay,
noise figure frequency conversion error, 3rd order intermodulation, spurious etc. for
A11.1 communication payloads & Error Vector magnitude (EVM), BER, phase noise, carrier
suppression, magnitude/phase imbalance (IQ imbalance), absolute delay, code/carrier
coherency etc. for navigation payloads. These parameters are characterized using an
Automated Test System (ATS). The ATS is an interconnection of stimulus and measurement
equipment to test a transponder (communication/navigation) in an automated fashion.
The data is processed on a controller to provide the parametric results, which needs
to be complied with the payload specifications. The processed data is displayed and
83

--- Page 98 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
stored in variety of formats such as excel, pdf, text, database etc. The ATS is generally
developed on platforms such as LabVIEW, Matrix Laboratory (MATLAB), and Python etc.
ISRO is actively involved in development of payloads for variety of user applications for
which high speed ATS development is required to test payloads in production mode as
well as applying suitable DSP algorithms for estimation of various parameters.
Payload testing also requires design and development of various ground components
(low power and high power) such as Switching & Interconnect Network, switch matrix,
waveguide/coaxial adaptors, couplers, dividers, high power waveguide terminations etc.
to enable realization of ground test setup for communication and navigation payloads.
Future research scope exists in ongoing activities:
• Development of web based Miniaturized ATS to characterize payloads from UHF to
Q/V band and above, having very narrow to very wide bandwidths (5 KHz to 500MHz),
using DSP techniques.
• Development of fast phase array antenna (PAA) measurement technique (in near/far
field conditions) for LEO payloads
• Design of PAA test setup as well as qualification in thermovac & compact antenna test
range (CATR) chamber.
• Characterization of multiple transponders in parallel using DSP techniques.
• Mismatch Fault isolation analysis using time domain techniques.
• Design and development of very high power waveguide terminations (> 2KW) at Ku
and Ka band
• Design and development of high power pressure windows at S, C, Ku and Ka bands
(quartz or alumina based).
• Design and validation of stimulus for various scenarios for communication, navigation,
ADS-B, AIS, Radar, spectrum processing.
• Development of efficient technique for ground setup RF calibration setup for
wideband multibeam/communication payloads.
• Feasibility analysis of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI/ML) concepts
application in analysis of payload test data generated during multiple phases of
testing.
• Query based trend analysis on centrally stored payload test data, generated at
different geographical locations.
• 5G NTN testbed design & development.
• Array antenna diagnostics & practical phase shifter uncertainty demonstration using
deep learning approach.
• Measurement of nonlinearity with memory effects.
84

--- Page 99 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
• Test methodology for characterization of multi-beam payload with reduced test
interfaces
• G/T measurement in ALC mode
• Characterization & calibration of multi-port amplifier
• Document processing & information retrieval using large language modelling
• Near field characterization of payloads having phased array fed reflectors
Satcom & Satnav Applications & Associated Technologies (SAC/
B Area
IISU/URSC)
B1 Sub Area SATCOM Applications and Technology Development (SAC)
Space Applications Centre, ISRO, Ahmedabad is responsible for SATCOM Applications
and Technology development for eventual use of Societal and Strategic users of the
country. Besides meeting the application needs, the Centre continues to work on
development of state-of-the-art technologies for SATCOM with an intent to indigenise
technology and product development.
In the last two years, the Centre has been into the establishment of more than 25 SATCOM
Gateway stations in Ku/Ka band to meet national enterprise VSAT communication
demand using upcoming HTS class of satellite. In the Mobile Satellite Service domain,
the Centre has developed applications like Real-time Train-tracking Information
System (RTIS), MSS Network for Tracking of Sub-20m boats, Real-Time Aircraft Tracking
System etc. to meet the custom requirements of user ministries. Besides these efforts,
the centre also focuses on development of technologies like SATCOM baseband ASIC
development, MMIC development for RF Sub-systems, Signal Processing algorithms
for SATCOM baseband technologies to enable communication on the move (COTM) for
Airline, Maritime and Land Applications. The Centre specializes on baseband technology
development pertaining to FSS and MSS. The Centre is working on development of
advance technologies for miniaturization (Satcom Baseband ASIC), cost and power
efficient battery operated MSS terminal development to support voice communication,
IoT and M2M communication using MSS satellites. The Centre is also exploring the
opportunity to promote development of RF and baseband sub-system technologies
indigenously by collaborative efforts.
While efforts are ongoing to achieve self-reliance, there are many new technologies still
that need development in the domain of Satellite Communication Ground Systems like
more powerful processors/ASICs, new source/channel encoding-decoding capabilities,
user terminal miniaturization and baseband algorithms that can enhance user mobility,
versatility, performance in a cost effective manner.
This document incorporates research areas relevant to the satellite communications
ground segment and application development to meet the near future requirements.
85

--- Page 100 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
B1.1 Baseband Technology Development (SAC)
Non Orthogonal Multiple Access (NOMA) based Multi-beam High Throughput
Satellite /Ultra High Throughput Satellite System (SAC)
Researchers are invited to explore the potential of Non-Orthogonal Multiple Access
(NOMA) technology in Satellite Communications (SATCOM) systems. To submit a
proposal, researchers should provide mathematical analysis and explain how NOMA
can be integrated into existing satellite systems from a system-level perspective.
Specifically, they are encouraged to propose methods for combining NOMA with
B1.1.1
pre-coding techniques, outline an implementation plan, and demonstrate the
effectiveness of NOMA in low signal-to-interference (C/I) conditions.
Additionally, researchers are invited to develop and evaluate receiver algorithms that
can handle multi-user detection and successive interference cancellation (SIC) at the
receiving end. The goal is to improve spectrum utilization efficiency and reduce co-
channel interference in SATCOM networks. Researchers should propose innovative
solutions for NOMA-based systems in various application scenarios.
Algorithm and Implementation of real-time Wideband Spectrum Sensing (WSS)
and Automatic Modulation Recognition AMR) system for Blind Signal Detection
(SAC)
Blind Signal Detection (BSD) relies on sophisticated algorithms to efficiently analyze
wideband signals and identify modulation types in real-time. To further enable its
practical application, researchers are invited to propose novel approaches for automatic
spectrum sensing and modulation recognition systems. These proposals should also
address the challenges of identifying communication streams, demodulating signals,
and monitoring interference.
B1.1.2
In addition, BSD systems can benefit from advanced techniques such as carrier-in-
carrier (CIC) or PCMA-based methods for more accurate identification. Researchers
are encouraged to submit their ideas for efficient spectrum sensing and modulation
recognition systems that include:
• Interference detection and mitigation strategies
• Signal demodulation plans with implementation details
• Methods for identifying blind scramblers and channel coding techniques
By tackling these challenges, researchers can contribute to the development of reliable
BSD systems that enable more efficient and effective use of communication resources.
Advance Baseband Technologies for Vocoderless audio communication for Satellite
Phone (SAC)
B1.1.3
In the Ongoing research of efficient datarate communications, vocoderless audio
communication is provided through satellite link in ultra low datarates. This unique
86

--- Page 101 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
choice of vocoderless audio communication and the ultra-low data rates allows and
paves the way for miniaturized low power satellite terminal with voice and data
communication. It will also allow massive number of devices to be supported
simultaneously due to efficient utilization of bandwidth. This novel research development
will help providing voice and data communication in existing low bandwidth channels.
This research is aimed at realizing the low power Miniaturized Satcom Voice and Data
terminal with two-way communication capability for strategic applications aimed at
ultra-portability.
Baseband Technology for Search and Rescue (SAR) systems of ISRO (SAC)
ISRO operates INSAT satellite(s) equipped with a 402-MHz Search and Rescue payload as
well as 406 MHz Data Relay Transponders that are being used for SAR operations using
different types of distress beacons of maritime, aviation and land users.
• Researchers are encouraged to submit their proposal for development of MEO-SAR
emergency locator transmitters with requisite Letter of Undertaking (LUT) processing
algorithm.
B1.1.4
• Data Relay Transponders are usually of 200 to 350 kHz bandwidth and being non-
regulated band suffer from interference from users. The nature of interference
being non-time dependent and sweeping nature causes the communication loss.
Researchers are encouraged to submit development proposal in interference
resistant waveform for sensor data reporting in burst mode of transmission that can
offer better quality of service.
• Proposal on development of Mixed signal ASICs for SAR user terminals are encouraged.
MSS/DRT Network for data collection from Oceanic Platform (SAC)
ISRO has already established a network with multiple GSAT satellites carrying MSS
transponders & INSAT satellites carrying Data Relay Transponders (DRT) transponders.
Also more next generation satellites with advanced MSS/DRT transponders & larger
antenna will be coming up in future. This network can be potentially utilized for data
collection & relaying applications from oceanic platforms. This network can facilitate
the data collected by different oceanic sensors deployed at different locations to
B1.1.5 be communicated to control centre in near real-time. The network can have hybrid
reconfigurable terminals which can communicate in both MSS & DRT bands & provide
unified interface with sensors.
Researchers are encouraged to innovate and propose design of ASICs, low-profile
planar antenna system with beam-forming capability and suitable waveform for robust
communication and leading to low power miniaturized system realization. A very
low bit-rate (25-300 bps), fast acquisition, spectrally efficient spread spectrum burst
demodulator design will add value to the proposal.
87

--- Page 102 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Baseband Sub-systems of Ground Network with multi-homing capabilities for
Gaganyaan (SAC)
ISRO has been working on the Gaganyaan Project, which will also include development
of audio/video processing system for ground segment. All ground stations are
connected to Master Control Centre (MCC) through multiple ground links to achieve
failsafe transmission reliability and service quality. For real-time multiplexed streams
B1.1.6 comprising audio, video and data, the reliability requirement is different for each
type of data stream. So there is a need of an efficient transmission technique for such
multiplexed streams with different reliability parameter settings for each stream over
a multi-homed networking environment. It is also required to have a suitable handoff
mechanism in case of link failover with minimum handoff latency.
Researchers are encouraged to propose a custom protocol stack for seamless multimedia
communication over multi-homing network.
Design and Simulation of digital beam-forming / electronic beam steering-
techniques for high frequency COTM/SOTM (Communication on the Move / Satcom
on the Move) applications) (SAC)
The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has designated specific frequency bands
for its satellite services, including the S-band for Mobile Satellite Service and Ku/Ka
band for aeromobile broadband services. To optimize performance and support critical
communication protocols, researchers are sought to develop advanced technologies.
Specifically, proposals are invited for the design and development of efficient electronic
beam steering systems that can mitigate interference in the S/Ku/Ka frequency bands
B1.1.7
used by ISRO’s satellite services. The proposed systems should also ensure seamless
switching between different communication modes (COTM/SOTM).
Additionally, researchers are encouraged to submit proposals for:
Compact mechanically steerable antenna systems suitable for aero-mobile applications
Hybrid systems that combine mechanical steering with electronic beam control for
improved efficiency and reliability
The goal is to develop cutting-edge technologies that can enhance the performance
and effectiveness of ISRO’s satellite services.
Development of baseband signal processing elements for aero-mobile terminals
(SAC)
The demand for in-flight broadband connectivity is on the rise, driven by increasing
B1.1.8
expectations for high-performance services from aircraft operators. As a result, more
airlines are investing in on-board broadband systems, leading to growing demands for
reliable and efficient connectivity.
88

--- Page 103 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
To meet these demands, ISRO’s satellite-based broadband network uses Ka-band
satellites and ground equipment to provide high-throughput services to aircraft in flight.
However, the challenge lies in offering affordable, low-cost terminals that can support a
multi-beam network with high-performance capabilities.
Researchers are invited to submit innovative designs for Ultra-High Throughput
Satellite (UHTS) class modem technology, which must enable: Wide and fast acquisition
capabilities, Support for large drifts in satellite position and velocity, State-of-the-art
access schemes, such as mobility management techniques for aero-mobile broadband
These advanced technologies will be essential in enabling low-cost, high-performance
terminals that can provide reliable broadband services to aircraft in flight.
Design & Simulation of physical-layer waveform for high mobility wireless channel
(high Doppler-delay channel) (SAC)
Providing reliable wireless communications for high mobility terminals remains one of
the main challenges faced by satellite high-mobility communication systems. because
the high Doppler frequency offset, Doppler rate & delay caused by the high-mobility
nature of the mobile terminal, and low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) circumstances caused
by limited satellites’ link budgets degrade the system performance seriously. This is a very
B1.1.9
challenging aspect in LEO broadband communication. Most of algorithms mainly focused
on the estimation and compensation of Doppler frequency rate and Doppler frequency
offset, rather than reducing the influence of Doppler effect in the communication
system. To solve such a problem in high-mobility satellite communications advance
physical layer waveform may be proposed which is insensitive to Doppler & delay.
Researchers are encouraged to offer innovative solution in form of algorithm, simulation
model as part of their proposal.
Generation and performance evaluation of candidate waveforms for NB IoT and
NTN (SAC)
With the evolution of Internet of Things (IoT), education, healthcare, commerce, and
energy has put strong pressure on current generation of wireless networks to improve
their services by including Non Terrestrial Networks (NTN) for better coverage and
seamless connectivity. The explosion of smart devices and applications has resulted in
the largescale use of the IoT requiring huge data rates, latency, frequent sensing, and
B1.1.10 computation that can exceed the capabilities of current networks. As the requirements
in these applications continue to increase, NTNs will have to offer good energy
efficiency, improved spectral efficiency, very low latency, and high mobility. To meet
these requirements, the radio interface of NTN will have to be flexible and improvised.
Therefore, new modulation methods, access techniques and waveforms capable
of supporting these technological changes need to be generated and evaluated.
Researchers are encouraged to offer innovative solution in form of algorithm, simulation
model as part of their proposal.
89

--- Page 104 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Design & Simulation of baseband technologies for LEO Broadband communication
(SAC)
The LEO Broadband Communication Network consist of Ka/Ku band user terminal,
Space segment & Ka-band Satellite Gateway. Satellite Orbit propagation & Scheduling,
automatic antenna pointing/beam steering, beam acquisition/ switching, Space resource
B1.1.11
management, Satellite handover & security are the major technology challenges.
Researchers are encouraged to propose innovative efficient solutions/algorithms for
above challenges.
Researchers may also propose detailed hardware & software architectures of various
baseband systems in User Terminals & satellite gateways.
Design & Simulation of waveforms for Extremly Low SNR Satellite communication
(SAC)
The satellite communication industry is experiencing a surge in demand for mobile
broadband and Internet of Things (IoT) applications. These emerging use cases require
the development of compact, low-cost, and energy-efficient user terminals that can
operate reliably at extremely low signal-to-noise ratios (SNR) (-30dB or lower), while
maintaining high bandwidth efficiency.
Researchers are encouraged to submit innovative proposals for:
Efficient waveforms that can effectively transmit data in adverse channel conditions.
B1.1.12
Advanced signal processing algorithms that enable robust acquisition, synchronization,
and reliable operation of receivers under dynamic channel conditions, including
extremely low SNR and high Doppler frequencies.
Furthermore, researchers are invited to propose efficient multiple access schemes and
signal processing technologies that can maximize capacity in satellite communication
networks, ultimately enabling the widespread adoption of mobile broadband and IoT
applications.
The goal is to develop novel waveforms and signal processing techniques that can
overcome the challenges of operating at extremely low SNR, while maintaining high
bandwidth efficiency and reliability.
Geolocation of interference using terrestrial technology (SAC)
To disrupt satellite-based communications, it is observed that an interference signal
is being transmitted at the same operating frequency by some unknown source.
This interference signal makes it difficult for the intended receivers of the ongoing
B1.1.13
communication to demodulate the received signal. The location of such malicious
transmitter that is transmitting the interference signal is unknown. This research proposal
is therefore aimed at processing the interference signal to estimate the location of such
malicious transmitter.
90

--- Page 105 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
This research proposal envisages the use of multiple ground based receivers to receive
the signal transmitted by a malicious transmitter and process this signal to estimate
the geo-location of the transmitter. The work/ algorithm must not use any aerial borne
receiver platform and should only consider ground-based receivers that are receiving
the transmitted signal. Researchers are encouraged to offer innovative solution in form
of algorithm, simulation model as part of their proposal.
Optimizing PQC for resource constrained IoT Devices (SAC)
The emergence of Internet of Things and cyber security for spacecraft applications are
two important areas that demand the adoption of an increasing number of security
standards which in turn requires implementation of a diverse set of cryptographic
primitives. This poses tremendous challenges in the design and implementation of PQC
B1.1.14 standards in a single embodiment. The implementation of standards should handle
large key sizes and at the same time should not be too expensive in terms of speed and
energy. This requires optimization of cryptographic primitives implemented in hardware.
The hash module, NTT and multiplication processes, compression and decompression
and sampling need to be implemented with minimum number of resources. The design
should also ensure that the security in not compromised with such optimization.
Enhanced Spread Spectrum Aloha Technology Development (SAC)
Enhanced Spread Spectrum Aloha (E-SSA) is an asynchronous access protocol especially
conceived to provide messaging services over the satellite return link. Protocol is
slightly modified version of the robust 3GPP Wideband Code Division Multiple Access
(W-CDMA) random access waveform (asynchronous burst transmission). The absence
B1.1.15 of synchronization mechanisms simplifies deployment and activation of the terminals.
A wide range of applications based on burst transmissions not significantly capacity-
demanding have been envisaged, such as telemetry, environment and traffic monitoring,
emergency alerts, fleet management, highway tolling, forecast predictions.
Researchers are encouraged to submit their proposal for ESSA system simulation and
Receiver design and implementation plan.
IoT enabled terminal development (SAC)
Implementation of IoT/M2M via satellite deals with mainly two issues: First, the physical
layer level: terminal related constraints (limited in power, energy, and antenna size),
channel (potentially with masking and multipath) and the space segment to ensure
B1.1.16 proper link budget allowing the communication. On the other hand, the need to provide
access to the resource to a large number of terminals. The access layer should also be
able to interface with larger networks architectures.
There are two possible ways of realizing IoT/M2M via satellite. The first scenario involves
the use of a satellite relay terminal that interfaces with terrestrial access technology
91

--- Page 106 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
sensors (backhaul communication link). The second scenario is based on direct
communication with sensors / objects via satellite constellation.
Research proposals are invited for implementation of low power, low cost terminals,
waveforms and other sub-system technology to support IoT over Satellite & Terrestrial
networks.
B1.2 Ground Segment Network and Hardware Technology Development (SAC)
Indigenous VSAT sub-systems technology development (SAC)
In today’s scenario, there is an increasing need to indigenize the baseband subsystems of
Very Small Aperture Terminals (VSAT) due to their stringent power, size, and operational
requirements. To meet these demands, researchers are encouraged to submit innovative
proposals for designing and developing indigenous solutions for VSAT technology.
Specifically, researchers are invited to propose:
Efficient, low-cost designs for RF subsystems commonly used in VSAT terminals, such as:
• Battery Disconnect Unit (BDC)
• Block upconverter (BUC)
• SSPA (Supervisor Security and Privacy Assurance)
B1.2.1 Rapidly deployable VSAT terminals that can quickly establish communication links in
emergency disaster situations. These designs should feature advanced antenna and RF
technologies, supported by state-of-the-art baseband technology for:
• Quick antenna pointing
• Establishing reliable communication links from mobile platforms with limited power
space availability
Extending interfaces to terrestrial devices for providing backhaul connectivity through
the satellite.
The goal is to develop innovative solutions that can meet the complex requirements of
VSAT terminals, while promoting indigenization and reducing dependence on imported
technologies.
Development of Low Profile Ku/Ka band terminal for Mobile Satellite Service (SAC)
ISRO is aiming at realizing the mobile satellite service in Ka-band. Researchers are
encouraged to submit their proposal for Ka-band Mobile Satellite Service system
B1.2.2 solutions with their feasibility and recommendations; Proposals for terminal design,
Proposal for protocol stack development for seamless overlay with existing MSS services,
in case needed. Innovative ideas are encouraged from researchers towards providing
reliable MSS services in Ka-band along with sub-system design proposals.
92

--- Page 107 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Portable HUB baseband system development (ESIM)(SAC)
Earth stations in motion (ESIM) address a complex challenge – how to provide reliable and
high-bandwidth Internet services to what are – literally – moving targets. They provide
broadband communications, including Internet connectivity, on platforms in motion.
There are currently three types of ESIM: ESIM on aircraft (aeronautical ESIM), ESIM on
ships (maritime ESIM) and ESIM on land vehicles (land ESIM). Earth Stations in Motion
(ESIMs) are the result of the most modern satellite technological developments and are
designed to be used on aircraft, ships and land vehicles. They are small size terminals,
with high-precision tracking capabilities, associated with state-of-the-art Ka-band
B1.2.3
satellites providing high-power multiple spot beam coverage, allowing transmission
rates in the order of 10-50 Mbits/s.
Recognizing that there is a need for global broadband mobile-satellite communications
and that part of this need could be met by allowing ESIMs to communicate with fixed-
satellite services (FSS). The advances in satellite and earth station technology make ESIMs
the best solution for users on the move and bring the benefits of high performance FSS
networks to communities that have yet to benefit from true broadband offerings.
Researchers are encouraged to submit their proposal for design, development and
implementation of different ESIMs.
Internet Protocol for Satellite Network (SAC)
In recent years, many routing algorithms have been proposed for LEO satellite networks.
Routing Internet traffic over satellites can be addressed using two alternative approaches.
We can simply consider each satellite as a node in the Internet and use a traditional
protocol stack. However due to the long round trip time (RTT) delay between the
satellites and the terrestrial infrastructure, problems such as routing instability and slow
convergence will be even worse than only using the terrestrial Internet. On the other
hand, we can consider the satellite network a separate autonomous system (AS), with
its own protocols. In this case, an IP packet will be encapsulated in a suitable way when
entering the constellation, and rebuilt when inserted back in the terrestrial network at
B1.2.4
destination. The routing problem is divided into two sub problems: Up-and-Downlink
(UDL) routing and Inter satellite link (ISL) routing.
Again, to ensure quality of services, research in this field is growing and there are various
open issues and research areas in the field of Satellite Networks like –
• Reducing the routing overhead of a dynamic QoS routing in a different traffic is a
challenge.
• GEO satellites have advantage of technological maturity and good coverage but due
to high delay and attenuation limits, transmitting real time information becomes a
problem. A single layer LEO satellite network has poor performance on transmitting
93

--- Page 108 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
long distance. How to combine advantage of both the satellite to improve network
performance.
Multicasting datagram in the satellite networks to achieve larger coverage area on the
terrestrial infrastructure is also a potential research area.
Adaptive protocol (SAC)
To cope with the highly dynamic behaviour associated with the wireless environment
and mobility, it is widely recognized that protocols should be able to adapt to a wide
variety of situations. While protocols in the wired network also adapt to different
conditions in a very limited way, usually at connection-setup time. Once a connection in
a wired network is established, the underlying conditions will remain relatively stable,
other than occasional congestion. This is often not so in wireless mobile networks. The
wireless link experiences a range of conditions e.g., fading, transient service outage,
high error rates, burst error patterns, and highly unpredictable traffic on shared links.
Furthermore, mobility exacerbates the situation by introducing handovers, motion-
induced effects, rerouting actions, and limited battery life.
Adaptive protocols provide productive ground for advanced protocol research. As nearly
all protocol research has been done on relatively static protocol architectures, there is
B1.2.5
much to learn about how to select a different protocol on the fly when the original one
no longer provides the required level of service. Protocol adaptation may be realized in
several ways. Active networking, in which packets may contain executable instructions
(in addition to headers and data), provides one approach to implementation. The
efficient implementation of adaptive protocols in both hardware and software present
interesting research problems. Some of the challenges are listed below:
• End-to-end protocol design that dynamically switches from one interface to the
other, transparently to the application and its user
• Protocol stack development to support adaptiveness
• Development of principles to allow on-the-fly protocol selection in wireless mobile
networks. Identify techniques for deciding when to select a new protocol, for switching
protocols, and for efficiently implementing this feature in software and hardware.
SATCOM in Non-Terrestrial Network (NTN) of 5G (SAC)
With the advent of 5G terrestrial network, Satellites are being proposed as an integral
NTN component. ISRO is keen on extending its reach to be a part of next generation
B1.2.6
5G communication, especially in the light of new satcom policy of the Govt of India.
Researchers are encouraged to submit their research proposal for system and
sub-system design for facilitating NTN component in 5G using SATCOM.
94

--- Page 109 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Q/V Band Propagation Study (SAC)
Presently Alphasat is the only satellite operating in Q/V band for European region
available for such studies. Recently with GSAT-29, ISRO had established a limited
capacity communication system for experimental purpose between Ahmedabad &
Delhi. Due to congestion in higher band and bandwidth availability & demand, a very
B1.2.7 strong push for Q/V band is expected in future. Very high signal impairments and no
availability of validated models for the Indian Region indicate a need to investigate this
hereunto neglected area. These will serve as vital input for future satellite designs and
deciding QoS and availability figures. Modelling and associated mathematical studies,
development or realization of RF subsystems, beacon from satellite, pan-India study;
Academia & Foreign Collaboration may be explored.
B1.3 ASIC Technology Development (SAC)
Design and Development of miniaturized, multiband S, L, UHF band) / S-band Low
Power Wideband Transceiver Mixed Signal ASIC for SATCOM terminal (SAC)
The mixed signal ASIC will comprise of comprise of front-end LNA, filter, transceiver
with built-in LO for full duplex operations, gain& filter blocks, ADC-DAC etc. The selected
architecture should have all imbalance measurement and compensation techniques
B1.3.1
built into it. The device calibration feature will be an added advantage.
The research proposal should address the development of low power, low cost custom
RF wideband transceiver ASIC in S/L/UHF-band to support communication using
miniaturized handheld and battery operated SATCOM terminals. The proposal should
include all specifications of each sub-block, the reconfiguration parameters etc.
Design and Development of RF-ASIC to support implementation of low-power, cost-
effective electronic beam steering capabilities for aero- mobile communication in
Ka/Ku band. (SAC)
Aero-Mobile terminal in Ku-Band/Ka-Band with beam steering capability could be
B1.3.2
miniaturized using RF-ASIC.
Researchers of this domain are encouraged to submit their proposal for design
and implementation of RFIC for miniaturized, power and cost efficient terminal
implementation.
Development of low cost terminal with Commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) ASICs for
RF front-end (MMIC and LTCC based RF Frontend for miniaturization) (SAC)
The important aspect of any terminal is it being hand held and light weight this trend we
have observed in terrestrial mobile phones as day by day they are becoming light and
B1.3.3
small. If we consider the Satcom terminals, the miniaturization is current necessity of the
situation as to be better usable and appealing for the consumers. The miniaturization is
happening on the baseband front by the development of Application Specific IC’s and
95

--- Page 110 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
single board setup where whole baseband is being included. Hence, the miniaturization
on the RF part needs to be done in order to decrease the weight and the size so that the
whole terminal can be small and light.
There are a few techniques to reduce size & weight of the RF section. One of the most-
utilized techniques is MMIC design in place of discrete microwave circuits where discrete
active and passive components are integrated using either transmission lines on
different substrates chosen according to frequencies. Monolithic Microwave Integrated
Circuits (MMICs) contain active, passive, and interconnect components all on single
wafer and can operate at frequencies from hundreds of MHz to hundreds of GHz. The
size advantage obtained is very drastic as MMIC are of size of um to mm whereas the
Microphone MIC circuits are in range of cm. Most of today’s MMICs are fabricated on
III-V compound substrates such as GaAs, InP, and GaN. This new technique enables us
to make the circuits like LNA, Mixer, Power amplifier etc on a single Silicon doped chip,
which are instead made using discrete components.
Another miniaturizing technique lies in a type of packaging technology named Low
Temperate Co-fired Ceramics (LTCC) where the technology is used for robust assembly
and packaging of electronic components.
It also offers may features like embedded components like capacitors resistors and
inductors, as the passive components are available they can be utilized to make filters.
The technology also allows us to make Substrate Integrated Waveguide filters. Further
as the MMICs are bare dies, they need packaging, and interconnection LTCC proves to be
the best option, which results in an integrated on a single RF module, which is very space
efficient, and light weight. Furthermore, Antennas can also be made in order to make a
more integrated space efficient and lightweight RF module which contains everything
from Antenna to the IF signal.
The utilization of all these techniques can yields us miniaturized RF frontend, which
can be of similar size of that of a compact baseband card thereby yielding us a small,
and light weight hand-held terminal, which can be comparable to modern day mobile
phones.
• Modem ASIC development for Ultra High Data Rate System (100 Mbps- 2 Gbps)
• Mixed Signal ASIC development with built-in low cost SATCOM transceiver for
various low-power IoT applications
Power Saving technique (Backend ASIC design) of ultra-low power Software
Defined Modem (SDM) ASIC (SAC)
B1.3.4 Satcom baseband modem ASIC is being developed for various Satcom ground
applications. Typical application of Modem ASIC, which are battery, operated & demands
low power consumption. The Modem ASIC supports multiple mod-code & wide range
96

--- Page 111 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
of data rate. Based on application ASIC is configured by Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)/
Universal Asynchronous Receiver-Transmitter (UART) interface. Currently even when a
simple configuration is running, the power of entire core is ON and the clock is active.
Idea is to implement various power saving technique in frontend/backend ASIC design
to suspend functionality of partial design or full design based on applications. Following
power saving modes can be thought of considering nature of applications:
a. Fully sleep mode: This mode is very useful in case of burst transmission & reception.
Device will consume minimal power when not active. In this case, only configuration
core is always active. Modem core is enabled whenever required & kept shut for rest
of the time. Typical applications: Reporting Terminal,
b. Partial sleep mode: This will be useful in almost all applications. This mode will
disable the non-functional block for a particular configuration. In only Viterbi is used
is active then other decoder should be shutdown. Entire receiver chain can be turn off
in case of transmit only terminal & vice-versa.
Typical applications: Two way MSS Vessel tracking terminal
Sleep mode can be implemented using following methods
i. Clock gating
ii. Power gating
iii. Multi-Voltage level
B1.4 Applications and Tools Development (SAC)
Development of Hybrid Network for Real-time Person or Asset Tracking using
Machine to Machine Communication Technology and Indian Navigation System.
(SAC)
Currently, ISRO has developed satellite-based solution for tracking of personnel and
assets like vehicles and fishing boats. Although this solution is extremely useful in
remote locations where terrestrial, network coverage is sparse or not existing at all,
there is similar need for such solutions in areas, which are widely covered by terrestrial
networks. A hybrid solution is proposed which can enable communication of mobile
B1.4.1
terminals using both SATCOM and terrestrial networks. This will greatly save the satellite
resources and enable us to serve more number of users.
The network will consist of terminals having the ability to communicate their location
and other significant information with the hub via satellite and terrestrial networks. The
terminal will be equipped with NavIC receiver to detect its location. It should have the
intelligence to detect the availability each of this network and switch between them as
and when required.
97

--- Page 112 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
As an extension of this functionality, the terminal should be intelligent enough to
detect the presence of similar neighbours (terminals) around it. This may be achieved
via point-to-point communication using Bluetooth/Wi-Fi. The Hub can also assist in
finding neighbours. The terminal can find its neighbours and can directly contact them
in emergency. A smartphone may interface with the terminal for visual representation
of location and other information. Mobility management and interface for interaction
between terminals also needs to be developed.
• Development of Spectrum and Waveform Analysis tool using low cost SDR platforms.
• Hub No Man’s Sky (NMS), Network Control Program (NCP) and Web-based tools for
effective Decision Support System
• Propagation studies, Advance Fecal Microbiota Transplantation (FMT) development
and inclusion for improved QoS
• SATCOM System definition, Unified protocol stack and Test Bed development of 5G
with Non-Terrestrial Networks (NTN) element
• NTN standardization efforts and Capacity Development Activities
• Development of mobility management algorithm and Hub Network Management
System for different application
Satellite Communication On The Move (SOTM) (SAC)
Satellite communications-On-The-Move (SOTM) is a communication capability used for
high speed satellite connectivity in moving vehicle. SOTM terminal with vehicle mounted
automatic tracking antenna will provide two-way, high-speed communications on the
move under various operational conditions using HTS (High Throughput Satellite). Using
SOTM terminal, it is possible to provide high speed satcom connectivity for aero-mobile,
land or marine applications. ISRO has developed prototype Ku band SOTM receive
terminal with 0.6m antenna using 2 axis (Az and El) stabilized servo based system and
demonstrated it for live DTH reception in moving vehicle.
Research proposals are invited for
B1.4.2
• Mechanism and Control system design for 3 axis/4 axis automatic antenna steering and
tracking of targeted satellite within +/- 0.1 degree accuracy for Ku band transmission.
• Solutions for estimating highly accurate heading information by INS (Inertial
Navigation System)/ Sensor in dynamic magnetic environment. Magnetometer is not
providing proper heading under dynamic magnetic field condition.
• Technology for Low cost INS with GNSS without compromising performance.
• Compact and light weight Ku/Ka band flat panel/planner array antenna/ Carbon Fiber
Reinforced Polymer (CFRP) reflector for mechanically steered transmit-receive SOTM
system.
98

--- Page 113 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
• Design and development of efficient electronic beam steering system for Ku/Ka band
operations as well as hybrid scanning system (electronic + mechanical)
• Design and development of system to test pointing accuracy of SOTM in lab
environment and algorithms to find out misalignment.
Satellite Network Simulator (SNS) (SAC)
The project’s main objective is to develop a Satellite Network Simulator, which is used
to generate and collect data-driven insights into the satellite network-level planning
and design activities. The simulator will allow an estimation of bandwidth and power
requirements to attain a target system-level capacity. The simulator will model the
Variable Coding and Modulation (VCM), Adaptive Coding and Modulation (ACM), and
Uplink Power Control (ULPC) systems that will be executed in an operational satellite
network. Using the simulator, the system engineer will determine the attainable data
B1.4.3 rates attained in the clear sky and the rainy conditions and gather insights into the
potential avenues of removing or reducing the bottlenecks so that the overall system
capacity is improved.
SNS is being developed in Python language with features viz. to carry out the forward
and return link budget calculations, rain fade modelling, capability of providing DR
site suitability recommendation, ULPC/ACM simulations, selectable DVB-S2 and S2X
modcods in both forward and return link and evaluation of system availability. It will
be useful for System engineering, network planning, throughput evaluation at different
fading levels of existing & future High throughput satellites in higher frequency bands.
B1.5 New Frontiers in SATCOM (SAC)
Development of High Data Rate (HDR)/ Ultra High Data Rate (UHDR) modems for
Home broadband service (SAC)
SATCOM based Home broadband service is one of the emerging field. Ultra High Data
Rate Modems will be essential component of this technology. These modems should be
B1.5.1 capable of supporting upto 1Gbps receptions capability for offering broadband services
equivalent to terrestrial broadband, to remote users. The major design challenges for
such UHDR modems include reconfigurable hardware platform & high-speed data
processing subsystems including demodulation loops, high throughput advanced FEC
Encoder/Decoders & multi-core baseband data processing engines.
Indigenization of Future HTS Gateways (SAC)
ISRO is inclined towards providing Direct to Home Broadway connectivity using HTS
Satellites. This will require Gateways & antenna system in large quantities. Aim is to
B1.5.2
bring down the overall cost with indigenization efforts. Today, across the globe three
major market players are operating and have maximum market share. The trend is to
implement gateways in frequency band of Ka or higher band.
99

--- Page 114 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Researchers and Industry partners are encouraged to innovate and propose efficient
design of 9/11m antenna system, RF-sub-systems, NavIC based TFGU, Hub Monitoring
and Control System, Antenna Tracking System etc. which can reduce design and
production lead time, be cost effective and mass producible design.
Device and method for fragmenting virus/microbe using RF radiation (SAC)
A non-thermal method of virus inactivation (in-vitro) especially SARS-CoV-2 by
physically fracturing the viral outer envelope using microwave radiation at its precise
natural frequency has been developed at SAC. A generic theoretical approach has been
identified to calculate the natural frequency of any spherical virus. Nanoparticle Tracking
Analysis (NTA) & real time Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) analysis was
performed to test the efficacy of the developed prototype on Severe Acute Respiratory
Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). On detailed analysis of test results it was found
that the device was efficient enough to eliminate up to 99% of SARS-CoV-2 upon one
minute of exposure. Antiviral efficacy of developed prototype is successfully tested for
various virus contaminated surfaces such as glass, metal, ceramic and laminate and
B1.5.3 achieved up to 99.99 % SARS-CoV-2 viral elimination within five minutes of radiation
exposure time. Patent granted (patent no. 465801) for the invention titled “Method and
Device for fragmenting virus/microbes using RF radiation at resonance frequency” by
the Indian Patent Office (IPO).
Research Areas include:
• Design and development of miniaturized decontamination system which removes
airborne contaminants -- such as biological (virus/microbes) and chemical impurities.
• Implementation of the technology for destruction of mosquito larvae at an early
stage.
• Sanitization of spacecraft using resonance frequency technique to avoid spread of
microorganism during interplanetary travel.
SATCOM based solution for Early Warning Disaster Management for extreme
weather conditions (SAC)
To enhance the efficiency and reliability of the EWS at unmanned Glacial locations
in events like GLOF (Glacial Lake Outburst Flood), an all-weather SATCOM solution
is envisaged to provide reliable communication links for data transmission. In
B1.5.4 extreme low temperatures and remote sites, providing power with proper backup for
communication setup is challenging, due to non-availability power grid and continuous
power requirement of the equipment and limitation of battery backup. Also, even light
rain and snow/ice accretion on antenna surface can form a water film causing signal
degradation during outdoor operations especially at remote unmanned locations where
the power available is restrained to solar generation. Hence, VSAT solutions with heater
100

--- Page 115 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
and/or manually clearing the deposited snow/water film from the antenna surface is not
feasible. Therefore, there is a need for low cost, durable water/snow repellent coating/
materials which can facilitate un-interrupted VSAT operations at unmanned remote
locations.
Passive flat panel antennas for Ext. C band operations (SAC)
The flat panel antennas offer several advantages over traditional parabolic antennas
including compact size, light weight design and ease of installation. The development
is required for passive flat panel antenna in ext. C band covering the transmit frequency
range from 6.725 to 7.025 GHz and receive frequency range from 4.5 to 4.8 GHz. Keeping
B1.5.5
in mind the advantages of flat panel antenna, the scope of this research is to design and
develop passive flat panel antenna in ext. C band covering the transmit frequency range
from 6.725 to 7.025 GHz and receive frequency range from 4.5 to 4.8 GHz. The desired
antenna gain should be more than 26 dBi and power handling capacity of up to 5W. The
panel size should be restricted to sub 1-meter range preferably around 0.6-0.7 m.
SATCOM Based Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) Operations (SAC)
SATCOM Based Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) Operations refers to the use of
SATCOM technology to enable drones or Unmanned Arial Vehicles (UAVs) to operate
beyond the pilot’s visual line of sight range. BVLOS operations are essential for long
range missions especially in areas where traditional line of sight communication is
impractical or disaster stricken areas where terrestrial infrastructures are not available.
Currently SAC ISRO is developing SATCOM solution for telemetry and control of UAV to
enable BVLOS connectivity. SAC is developing MSS terminal and customized MAVLink
protocol for low data rate & high latency GEO satellite communication link. In future, Ku
band SOTM terminal is to be developed to support high data rate video communication.
B1.5.6
Research proposals are invited for
• Latency and throughput optimization techniques for MSS channel
• Hybrid communication system which combines all other possible communication
link with SATCOM link to ensure seamless connectivity
• Electronically steered antenna for video, telemetry and control data communication
• Multi-constellation integration into a single unified system for uninterrupted coverage
across different geographic locations
• Cybersecurity protocol for SATCOM to protect against hacking, spoofing or jamming
attempts.
IoT and AI-enabled Remote Healthcare Monitoring in Tele-Medicine (SAC)
The integration of Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) has the potential
B1.5.7
to revolutionize the healthcare industry by enabling remote monitoring, early disease
diagnosis, and proactive treatment. This research proposal aims to explore the application
101

--- Page 116 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
of IoT and AI in tele-medicine, leveraging wearable devices and sensors to continuously
collect patient data, which can be utilized for improved treatment outcomes and faster
disease diagnosis.
Research Objectives of this proposal are as under:
• To design and develop an IoT-based tele-medicine system that integrates various
wearable devices and sensors (e.g., accelerometer, altimeter, digital camera,
electrocardiogram, electromyograph, electroencephalogram, electrodermograph,
location GPS, microphone, oximeter, Bluetooth proximity, pressure and thermometer)
to collect patient data.
• To develop an AI-powered analytics platform that can process and analyze the vast
amount of data generated by IoT devices, identifying patterns and anomalies that
may indicate potential health risks or disease progression.
• To investigate the application of machine learning algorithms in predicting disease
diagnosis and prognosis based on IoT-collected data.
• To evaluate the efficacy and feasibility of the proposed tele-medicine system in
improving patient outcomes and enhancing overall quality of life.
To implement the mentioned proposal, a comprehensive review of existing research
on IoT, AI, and tele-medicine will be conducted to identify gaps and areas for
improvement. The IoT-based tele-medicine system will be designed and developed,
incorporating various wearable devices and sensors. Patient data will be collected
from the wearable devices and sensors, which will be transmitted to a centralized
server for processing and analysis. Machine learning algorithms will be applied to
analyze the collected data, identifying patterns and anomalies that may indicate
potential health risks or disease progression.
Expected Outcomes of this project are as under:
• Development of an IoT-based tele-medicine system that integrates wearable devices
and sensors for continuous patient monitoring.
• Creation of an AI-powered analytics platform that can process and analyze vast
amounts of data generated by IoT devices.
• Identification of machine learning algorithms that can accurately predict disease
diagnosis and prognosis based on IoT-collected data.
Satellite-Based Navigation (SATNAV) Technology & Applications
B2 Sub Area
(SAC)
India has developed its own navigation system named NavIC (Navigation with Indian
Constellation). The NavIC constellation is a combination of GEO and GSO satellites
which are presently transmitting L5 (1176.45 MHz) & S (2492.028 MHz) band signals that
are received by the user devices equipped with NavIC receivers. In receiver segment,
various types such as User Receiver, Reference receiver, Timing Receiver and messaging
102

--- Page 117 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
receivers are being developed by SAC and through transfer-of-technology (ToT)
and other collaboration modes, by private companies. These receivers are capable of
providing pseudo-range (Code phase) and carrier phase measurements which can be
processed to provide metre- to cm-level position accuracies. Real Time Kinematic (RTK)
solutions based on differential positioning concept and Precise Point Positioning (PPP)
are techniques used to provide very high accuracy positioning upto cm-level accuracy.
Receivers equipped with these capabilities are usually dual frequency equipment and use
very precise carrier phase measurements. These receivers have very wide applications in
the field of survey & land records, geodesy, 5G, testing driverless / autonomous cars and
precision agriculture. Also, NavIC chips as well as NavIC-in-mobile platforms are coming
up and may be used for ubiquitous location-based services etc.
Furthermore, there are various scientific and technical applications which can be
addressed by using NavIC and other GNSS receivers, Inertial Navigation System (INS),
ground-based navigation system such as Pseudolite system developed at SAC etc.
Different algorithms are required to process these multi-constellation receivers equipped
with INS and other navigation aids. Therefore, new algorithms, software and solutions are
required to be developed. This document highlights various research areas in Satellite
Navigation to cater applications in various fields. Use of GNSS measurements has also
been very promising in meteorological applications such as estimation of Integrated
Water Vapour (IWV) which is ingested in Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) models
etc. Space weather is also one of the very important aspect which is being addressed
using GNSS signals.
This section relevant to applications deriving from ISRO’s navigation satellites
constellations is broadly divided into two major segments of technology development
and GNSS applications which largely include scientific applications also.
Technology Development (SAC)
NavIC signals in general may be prone to interference with other GNSS satellite signals
such as GPS, Galileo and Beidou. The NavIC S-band signal in particular may experience
B2.1
interference from commercially used S band spectrum by Wi-Fi and WiMax services.
Therefore, interference/jamming detection and mitigation algorithms and techniques
need to be vitally developed.
Joint optimization of signal waveforms, spreading codes, and multiplexing scheme
(SAC)
Many existing constant envelope multiplexing (CEM) design approaches rely on the
B2.1.1 assumption that the spreading sequences of different component signals are perfectly
orthogonal. However, in real-world scenarios, the imperfect orthogonality of these
sequences can cause slight distortions in the correlation function following multiplexing,
which may lead to an inherent bias in code tracking. A promising direction for future
103

--- Page 118 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
research involves the integrated design of spreading sequences, chip waveforms, and
CEM. An initial attempt was made to address this, where the symmetry of the code
sequence was incorporated as a constraint in the optimization framework, resulting in a
notable reduction in the inherent bias of code tracking.
Constant envelope multiplexing for general modulations (SAC)
The constant envelope multiplexing (CEM) discussed so far for GNSS are primarily designed
for memoryless DSSS signals with multilevel chip waveforms, where instantaneous
waveform value transitions are assumed. This assumption implies that the components
being multiplexed maintain sufficient side lobes outside their main spectral lobe. Since
the multiplexing operation occurs in the digital baseband using digital logic, and the
envelope constancy must only be preserved up to the high power amplifier (HPA) input,
the assumption of instantaneous transition remains approximately valid, provided that
the bandwidth of the up-converter before the HPA is sufficiently wide. Consequently,
envelope distortions caused by chip transitions have not been a major concern for a long
B2.1.2
time. However, as spectrum resources become increasingly scarce, more complex chip
waveforms with higher spectral efficiency, such as the prolate spheroidal wave function
(PSWF) waveform, are being proposed for future satellite navigation signals, particularly in
the C-band. Additionally, advanced modulations, such as continuous phase modulation
(CPM) and chirp spread spectrum (CSS), are being considered as alternatives to DSSS. For
signals with continuous transitions in their waveforms and memory-based modulation,
existing CEM techniques are not directly applicable. Therefore, the development of CEM
techniques capable of accommodating signals with more general spreading waveforms
or even non-DSSS signals presents an area of promising research. Preliminary results are
emerging in this domain, such as the combination of two components into a CPM signal.
Lunar-PNT Systems for Autonomous Navigation (SAC)
This research focuses on designing and developing PNT systems tailored for autonomous
lunar exploration. Traditional Earth-based GNSS systems are not feasible for the Moon
due to the lack of infrastructure, so a lunar-specific PNT system needs to be developed.
This includes studying the Moon’s gravitational environment, using lunar landmarks for
B2.1.3 positioning, and leveraging celestial navigation methods. The research would explore
potential integration with lunar orbiters to provide continuous coverage, as well as
solutions to address challenges such as lunar terrain-induced errors, dust storms, and
the absence of a global positioning network. It also involves examining the integration
of advanced sensors, like altimeters and gyroscopes, with the PNT system for precise
navigation on the lunar surface.
Impact of Lunar Environmental Conditions on PNT Signal Integrity (SAC)
B2.1.4 This research examines how the unique environmental conditions of the Moon—such as
extreme temperature variations, dust storms, and radiation—impact the performance
104

--- Page 119 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
and reliability of PNT signals. It would explore the effects of these factors on radio signal
propagation, system accuracy, and signal degradation over time. The research would
propose solutions to mitigate these effects, such as the use of low-frequency or high-
frequency signals that may be less susceptible to lunar environmental disturbances.
Additionally, it would investigate the potential for signal interference from the Moon’s
regolith or interactions with solar and cosmic radiation. Ultimately, this topic aims to
ensure robust, reliable, and accurate PNT performance for future lunar missions and
long-term lunar bases.
Impact of LEO Satellite Dynamics on Time Synchronization and PNT Accuracy (SAC)
This research addresses the effects of the unique orbital dynamics of LEO satellites on
time synchronization and overall PNT accuracy. Due to the high velocities and rapidly
changing orbits of LEO satellites, precise synchronization of their onboard clocks with the
ground or other satellites is challenging. The study would focus on the impact of these
dynamics on time error propagation, clock drift, and potential signal interference, and
B2.1.5
propose advanced algorithms for time synchronization across satellite constellations.
The research would also consider the challenges of maintaining synchronization over
long durations and during rapid orbital manoeuvres, which can lead to varying signal
delays. The goal is to develop robust methodologies to ensure accurate timekeeping
and PNT performance for LEO satellite-based services, essential for applications like
remote sensing, real-time navigation, and global communication.
Configurable GNSS Universal Correlator Architecture ASIC for various NavIC
Applications: (SAC)
Development of NavIC + GNSS Baseband ASIC (NavASIC v3) @ 28nm node is carried
out at SAC to cater the requirements of high performance, low power and small size
navigation receiver for civil and strategic users. It has massive correlator based fast
acquisition engine for direct acquisition of NavIC Authorised Long-codes; thereby
achieving the critical Time to First Fix (TTFF) requirement of the order of 10-15 sec. It
consists of 100 tracking channels to process all-in-view open GNSS civilian signals along
with NavIC SPS and authorised signals. It also has external code generator interface so
B2.1.6 that same ASIC can also be catered to future Navigation signals. The chip is targeted at
28 nm technology node for optimized power, performance and area (PPA). ASIC design
consists of ~50 Million NAND2 equivalent gates. SAC carried out ASIC Architecture
design, FPGA prototyping, Front-end design (RTL and gate level netlist synthesis) &
verification whereas Back-end design and fabrication through MPW run was outsourced
to Indian vendor.
ASIC architecture is designed such that it is having a lot of configurability for usage in
variety of applications with different operating modes. 32-bit dual core processor is used
along with GNSS hardware correlators, timing and measurement modules for Baseband
signal processing & Navigation solution computation.
105

--- Page 120 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
ASIC has state-of-the-art Partial Matched Filter with FFT based acquisition engine for
fast and direct acquisition of optimized Long code with time assistance from RTC along
with support for acquisition of open NavIC & GNSS signals. ASIC also has four 2046 tap
matched filter based acquisition modules which support epoch to epoch integration
required for acquisition of signals having same PRN code duration and data-bit period
along with support for BPSK(10) signals.
This ASIC has total 100 tracking channels, which are configurable for processing of
NavIC-SPS, Short/Long signals, and open GNSS signals, which are having different
modulations, PRN code rate, length and data rate. The configurability is achieved by
universal acquisition & tracking correlator design for processing of different types of
signals. ASIC can also process Pseudolite signals.
ASIC can accept digitized IF inputs either in real or complex format from multiple GNSS
RF signal bands such as L1, L2, L5 and S. This ASIC also has external code streaming
interface for accepting PRN codes from an external chip. ASIC has inbuilt anti-jamming
module for CW and Pulse interference mitigation. ASIC also has clock-gating and power-
gating feature for power savings in different operating scenarios.
The design is partitioned in multiple blocks (total 20) & each block is synthesized
separately (hierarchical synthesis) with UPF flow (for power gating) & were connected
through top module with wrapper logic. On-chip PLL IP is used for generating different
processor clock frequencies depending on the application requirement. RTL and netlist
design has been thoroughly verified by Design & SQA teams using different test vectors
& verification strategies. FPGA prototype & emulation of ASIC has been carried out &
tested with simulated scenarios of NavIC and GNSS signals using GNSS simulator. The
chip peripherals include three UARTs, one SPI core with multiple slave selects, one I2C
core along with dual MIL-1553B RT core. The gate-count of this ASIC is ~50 million with
6.5mm x 6.5mm die size & 15mm x 15mm flip-chip BGA package.
Initial board bring-up & testing is carried out and first cut Positioning is obtained
successfully in intermediate 64 pin CQFP package. Power consumption of this ASIC is
180mW to 600mW range in different operating modes. Thorough testing in final BGA
package is under way.
This ASIC has dual core Sparc V8 processor, so that for various applications like vehicle
tracking, RTK, DGNSS operations; there is no need to have external processor in addition
to this ASIC. New Algorithm development can run in any one of the core, while other
core will continuously do PVT positioning.
Development of CMOS /BiCMOS RFIC (SAC)
SAC is involved for design and development of NavIC based receiver for broad range
B2.1.7
of applications, like Civil, Military and Space applications. It is required to develop
106

--- Page 121 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Complementary Metal-Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS)/BiCMOS Bipolar Complementary
Metal-Oxide Semiconductor, Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit (RFIC) to have multi-
chip module solution along-with indigenous baseband ASIC and to have miniaturized
NavIC Rx. for various applications.
Commercial and space grade RFIC is required with the following blocks:
• Tri band integer PLL/ Fractional PLL.
• Triband / wideband LNA
• Image reject Mixer Narrow band and wideband
• Variable gain amplifier
• Low drop out regulator
• Complex filter for IF range
• SPI interface to control the overall receiver block
• Multibit ADC: Multibit low power ADC is required to meet high Anti-jamming
capability.
ADC specifications:
a. Bit resolution: 16 bits
b. SFDR: 86dB
c. Sampling clock: 50MHz
d. ENOB: >14 bits
• MEMs based Temperature Compensated Crystal Oscillator (TCXO): Satellite application
of space-grade NavIC receiver required high acceleration sensitive TCXO. MEMs
based TCXO can meet the 0.5 ppb/g acceleration sensitivity. MEMs based capacitive
resonator is suitable choice for space application and piezo resistive resonator can
meet ground application.
Construction and selection of balanced and near balanced Pseudorandom
Sequences with lower correlation values and large linear complexity (SAC)
Spreading PRN codes are utilized in satellite navigation for ranging, spectrum spreading
and satellite identification in Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) based GNSS systems.
Considering future navigation signals, there is an increasing demand of spreading codes
families of various Length, family size, and correlation properties PRN sequences to be used
B2.1.8
in communication and satellite navigation should have certain statistical and correlation
properties. While designing a sequence for satellite navigation, it is desirable for sequence
to be balanced, have low value of out of phase auto-correlation and cross-correlation,
have well behaved distribution of one and zeros and should be easily implementable
in hardware. Since the sequences in sequences in the field of satellite navigation are
also modulated by data or overlay codes thus, it is also desirable the sequences have
107

--- Page 122 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
low values of out-of-phase odd auto-correlation and odd cross-correlation as well.
Sequences with longer length or time-period greater than few milliseconds are often
partially cross-correlated in a navigation receiver. Large linear complexity sequences
are a potential candidate for signals with anti-spoofing capability. This work involves
designing of a PRN code family where each PRN sequence of the code family should
have the properties of randomness. The code family set should have sufficient number
of codes to satisfy a global constellation of satellites and enough for supporting the
augmentation system, if any. It also involves selection criteria determination and to
compare the performance of a set of codes against the performance parameter matrix
to find optimum codes. Performance parameters for code selection include sequence
balance; run length, orthogonality, auto- and cross-correlation histograms at various
Doppler offsets, excess line weight and values for the low auto-correlation functions.
Design and Development of True Random Number Generators (SAC)
Random numbers are of paramount importance in field such as cryptography, Monte
Carlo simulations, randomized algorithms etc. In contrast to Pseudo Random Number
Generator, physical (true, hardware) random number generators extract randomness
form physical processes that behave in a fundamentally nondeterministic way, which
makes them better candidates for true random number generation. TRNG are useful for
key generation in field of encryption and authentication of satellite navigation signals.
This work objective is to develop a true random number generator, which produces
random numbers that passes through the criteria of randomness, which is given by
a series of statistical tests of National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST Test
suit, Diehard battery of randomness tests etc. In general, TRNG suffers with unequal
B2.1.9 probability of occurrences of one and zero which is known as bias. Thus, the developed
TRNG should also include the post processing mechanism of bias removal. Some of the
RNG constructions are as follows-
• Noise-based RNGs
• free running oscillator RNGs
• chaos RNGs
• quantum RNGs
• The resources utilized by TRNG, its throughput and frequency of operation are some of
the design criteria which needs to be considered while choosing an architecture. The
generated random numbers should pass through randomness property measured
using statistical test.
Multi constellation and multi frequency GNSS positioning algorithms (SAC)
Owing to the complementary nature of the various GNSS signals / services, there is a
B2.1.10
worldwide trend for deriving position solutions of more than one GNSS signal. Known
as multi-GNSS, this has the potential of providing an accuracy superior than any of the
108

--- Page 123 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
GNSS signals when used singly; complementing the number of satellites in case of lower
availability and / or blockage and extension to the space service volume (SSV). Employing
more than one frequency (multi-frequency) to obtain the positioning solution offers the
advantages of enhanced accuracy, resolution of ionospheric effects, etc.
Potential research areas in these two domains may be satellite selection, triple-frequency
for ambiguity resolution, inter-system/signal/frequency bias estimation, etc.
Multi constellation and multi frequency GNSS positioning algorithms (SAC)
GNSS Security, Vulnerability, Encryption, Authentication (SAC)
• Key exchange Algorithms: IRNSS RS service for authorized users involves encryption
and to improve security, encryption keys are changed regularly to avoid brute force
attack and cryptanalysis from unauthorized users. IRNSS RS receivers deployed in
field will have to be communicated with changed keys.
B2.1.11
• Key Distribution/Key management for GNSS strategic applications
• RAIM, Advanced RAIM and TRAIM Algorithms
• Spreading Code Encryption for very long code using stream/block ciphers
• Block-chain technology for authentication/security of GNSS services
• Geo-encryption
• Message Authentication Techniques for NavIC
Multi constellation and multi frequency GNSS positioning algorithms (SAC)
Precise Satellite Relative Location Estimation System for Tandem Satellites
operation (SAC)
Design & development of “precise Baseline/Orbit determination system” for Tandem
Satellites operation. Following are important research area in this topic:
B2.1.12
1) High-precision GNSS receiver
2) Precise orbit & Baseline determination
3) Implementation Dynamic Force Models
4) High-precision orbit propagation
Navigation Simulators (SAC)
The design and development cycle of GNSS Receivers is highly dependent on the signals
provided by GNSS Simulators right from conceptualization to product development
cycle. Following are important research areas in Navigation Signal Simulation:
B2.1.13
5) Low-cost NavIC Simulator
6) Handheld GNSS Simulator
7) Interference Simulator for GNSS bands
8) Low-cost Navigation Educational Kit
109

--- Page 124 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
9) Seamless indoor/outdoor navigation with NavIC and other Signals of Opportunity/
Technologies
10) LEO GNSS and NavIC + LEO GNSS Simulators
Software Defined Radio (SDR) based NavIC system Development (SAC)
SDR is a popular trend that allows the configuration of generic receivers that may
be customized based on specific user requirements. Potential domains for research
proposals in this area may be:
B2.1.14 1) NavIC-GNSS receiver
2) NavIC-GNSS simulator
3) SDR for RTK and PPP
4) SDR for Pseudolite-based navigation System
5) SDR for GNSS + Pseudolite System
Pseudolite-NavIC-GNSS receiver algorithm Development (SAC)
Pseudolite System is ground-based navigation system which may provide very accurate
position within a localized area. These are low-cost systems and can be easily integrated
with other GNSS systems. Following topics may be taken for development of new
algorithms:
1) Successive Interference Cancellation to mitigate near-far problem in Pseudolite
2) Pseudolite-NavIC-GNSS hybrid user position algorithm/ Extended Kalman Filter (EKF)/
B2.1.15 Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF) based algorithms
3) Time synchronization algorithms with GNSS
4) Signal acquisition & tracking in pulse-CDMA mode
5) Pseudolite indoor-positioning algorithms
6) Multipath mitigation algorithm
7) Algorithms for bi-directional Pseudolite based system for interplanetary scenario like
Mars, Moon etc.
8) Pseudolites for landing application at Indian airports
LEO GNSS: (SAC)
Position, Navigation and Time (PNT) services can be provided by mega-constellations
in LEO orbits, which are otherwise primarily meant for providing communication and
broadband internet services across the globe. Following are the research areas in this
domain:
B2.1.16
1) System engineering aspects
2) Doppler Positioning and Velocity Algorithms
3) New navigation processing algorithms for acquisition and tracking
4) GNSS+LEO constellation designs and algorithms
110

--- Page 125 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Differential Positioning & RTK Receiver Algorithm Development for NavIC (SAC)
Differential positioning is a technique which provide cm-level accurate position and
transmits corrections from a base or reference receiver at accurately known location to
a rover receiver through UHF/VHF link. This technique assumes that both base and rover
receivers are observing common set of satellites. Differential positioning is performed
using both pseudo-range and carrier-range measurements. Following algorithms may
be developed:
1) Integer Ambiguity (AI) resolution in carrier-phase measurements
B2.1.17
2) Carrier Phase-Based Positioning
3) Low-cost single frequency RTK receiver algorithms
4) RTK correction generation & dissemination module in RTCM format
5) GNSS Corrections: RTK, RTK-PPP, PPP
6) Network RTK for India
7) NTRIP based interface for NavIC
8) High-accuracy Post-processed RTK positioning algorithms
Precise Point Positioning (PPP) Receiver Algorithms (SAC)
Precise point positioning (PPP) is a technique using Global Navigation Satellite System
(GNSS) satellites to achieve decimetre level or better position accuracy using a single
receiver. This technique relies on the availability of highly precise ephemeris and clock
products from a network of reference receivers without using a base station. PPP also
requires a dual-frequency receiver with precise carrier range measurements. However,
nowadays single frequency-PPP is also being attempted by researchers. Precision usually
in this case means a horizontal position accuracy of 10 cm or better.
1) Precise ephemeris & clock product generation & dissemination
B2.1.18
2) EKF-based PPP algorithms
3) Low-cost single-frequency PPP algorithms
4) Multi-constellation PPP
5) PPP-AR (Ambiguity Resolution) algorithms
6) High accuracy Post-processed PPP algorithms
7) PPP-INS positioning algorithms
8) PPP-RTK positioning algorithms
9) PPP with Pseudolite or GNSS + Pseudolite system
Atmospheric Studies (SAC)
NavIC L5 and S Band signals along with other GNSS signals can be used for estimation
B2.1.19
of better ionospheric TEC and relevant model development. These signals are useful for
ionospheric scintillation studies and also for tropospheric model development.
111

--- Page 126 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• Ionospheric studies over the Indian Region
a. Real-time ionospheric Total Electron Content (TEC) & scintillation map generation
b. Ionospheric tomography model development
• Tropospheric Studies
a. Tropospheric model development for Indian region
b. Tropospheric mapping function development
• Weather Monitoring and forecast through NavIC S-Band
a. Thunderstorm detection using Machine Learning/Deep Learning Techniques
b. Multipath and Soil Moisture model development using AI/ML/DL
Other Topics (SAC)
1) Short delay Multipath Mitigation Techniques in GNSS Receivers
2) S band interference in Satcom and Satnav applications
3) Spoofing Detection: Using Multiple antennas, Signal time of arrival
4) NavIC data processing in RTKLIB
5) Robust positioning with Civilian GNSS signals.
6) Ground Testing of Rubidium Atomic Clocks.
7) Navigation Solution with Multi-Constellation.
8) Ground Characterization of On-board Atomic Clock performance.
B2.1.20
9) Effect of Wi-Fi, 3G/4G/5G on NavIC/GNSS Signals.
10) Design of Global Indian Navigation constellation.
11) Cooperative & peer to peer positioning
12) Positioning for Autonomous systems (robot, drones, marine vehicles)
13) Time to First Fix (TTFF) reduction in GNSS receivers
14) Assisted NavIC
15) Design and development of NavIC Data Post-processing Tools (GAMIT, Berneze,
RTKLIB like s/w)
16) Design of NavIC Advisory generation and dissemination (like GPS’s NanU)
B2.2 GNSS Applications (SAC)
Precision Agriculture (SAC)
India is an agricultural country. Produce of agricultural products can be optimized using
GNSS techniques such as RTK and PPP. This entails significant savings of equipment
usage, fuel consumption, potential for manual error, etc. and can significantly enhance
B2.2.1
productivity. Following algorithms/solutions may be developed:
1) RTK-based precision agriculture solutions
2) PPP-based precision agriculture solutions
3) Low-cost or community-based solutions (e.g. village-level)
112

--- Page 127 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Mobile Application Development (SAC)
• The availability of NavIC-enabled mobile phones will provide improved accuracy
and availability as these mobile phones use all-in-view (multi-constellation) based
processing. Besides GNSS, other sensors in the mobile phones can aid in improving
accuracy as well as availability of position solution in the places with weak or blocked
GNSS signals. Mobile applications can be developed for fusion of GNSS and sensor
B2.2.2
data for location-based services.
• NavIC-GNSS mobile App for location based services using GIS map
• Mobile-based train tracking App for Railways including paperless ticketing
• NavIC/GNSS based Navigation App for blind/physically impaired person
• Android Studio based positioning using raw NavIC/GNSS observables
• NavIC/GNSS anomaly reporting
Scientific Applications (SAC)
The following research activities may be suggested for scientific applications of GNSS.
One may extend this work in future for finding the cloud dynamics and even for hydrology.
This, however, is possible when the measured data is highly dense in nature. With more
precision in measured data, it may also be utilized for finding the cyclonic condition and
movements. Especially, NavIC S-band signals may be very useful for weather studies. Also,
networked GNSS data may be utilized for earthquake research and hazard mitigation.
Data from available network over India, may be collated, in one hand to find the crustal
B2.2.3
movements, while the post-earthquake signatures on ionosphere may be studied, on
the other hand, to identify and index the strength of the earthquake and its extent.
1) Modelling Equatorial TEC perturbation
2) Forecasting of ionospheric scintillation
3) Integrated Water Vapour (IWV) estimation using GNSS
4) Cyclone tracking & Precipitation prediction
5) Seismic studies using TEC
Other Applications (SAC)
1) Marine Applications
2) Disaster Management using GNSS & GAGAN
3) NavIC/GNSS-based navigation for UAV
B2.2.4 4) GIS application involving NavIC/GAGAN and ISRO’s geospatial database Bhuvan
5) GNSS based spacecraft attitude determination
6) Application/software for vehicle parking system including automatic toll collection
7) NavIC based biometric bracelet
8) Low-Cost Surveying and Land Record Mapping using NavIC & GAGAN Receivers
113

--- Page 128 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
9) GNSS for Smart City applications
10) IRNSS Messaging based Applications
11) Timing Applications of NavIC
B3 Area Navigation (IISU/URSC)
B3.1 Sub Area Lunar Surface Navigation System (IISU)
Towards lunar landing and further lunar navigation, an Earth-independent navigation
system is to be established on Moon surface which is essential for robotic/crewed
missions on moon.
For lunar surface navigation, a novel self-configurable and self initializable navigation
system independent of Earth based communication/reference is proposed. At first, a
lunar surface based coordinate system will be fixed by the rover at its landing point.
With respect to the fixed lunar coordinate frame, rover will be propelling compact
IMUs in different precisely known directions so as to place them in locations with best
geometrical configuration. As the IMUs are accurate for short duration, the locations of
IMU landing points on lunar surface will be precisely known w.r.t the fixed lunar reference
frame. Further, these IMUs in different locations with known precise coordinates will be
acting as pseudo-lite stations w.r.t which rover will be able to do lunar surface navigation
B3.1.1
accurately.
Objective and Scope
Establishment of lunar surface navigation for local navigation of the rovers
• Design and realization of accurate and highly miniaturized inertial navigation
systems-Micro INS (Mass <0.2kg)
• Actuator based deploying/projecting mechanisms for placing the micro INS at
different locations for best geometrical configuration
• Realization of CDMA communication between the INS and rover
• Position fix by ranging using the micro INS transmitters
• Development of integrated navigation system with micro INS, LiDAR, Visual
odometry etc.
Pulsar based Absolute Navigation for Advanced Space Missions
B3.2 Sub Area
(IISU)
Pulsars are natural celestial sources which broadcast highly regular timing pulsations
which lead to the proposal for design and development spacecraft navigation system
for GPS denied environments as well as for interplanetary missions. Two types of pulsars
are studied-radio pulsation and X-ray pulsation outputs. Since radio pulsars are very
B3.2.1 faint, huge antenna systems make them impractical for navigation system development.
Whereas X-ray pulsars can be detected with very small X-ray detection system with
size less than a m2. To enable precise timing measurements of these X-ray pulsars,
development of high sensitive detector system with low power, sub micro second timing
accuracy on each X-ray photon received.
114

--- Page 129 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
The basic measurement that yields position and time information is the arrival time
of a pulsar pulse at the detector. This arrival time is then compared to the expected
arrival time based on a timing model of the pulsar that has been developed from years
of observations at ground-based radio telescopes. The difference between the observed
and predicted arrival time can be translated directly into a correction in the position
of the detector in the direction of the pulsar being observed. Observations of multiple
pulsars can thus be combined to provide full three-dimensional position information.
Orbit Determination (AI-ML Based Orbit Determination
B3.3 Sub Area
Enhancements) URSC
Conventional Orbit Determination (OD) techniques use ground station tracking
measurements or on-board sensor data (GNSS Rx, INS …) along with precise orbit
models. The challenges in this approach include precise knowledge of density model
(in case of LEO orbit), accurate estimation/modelling of SRP (Solar Radiation Pressure for
MEO/GEO orbits) and account the environmental un-certainties such as Solar flux, Geo-
Magnetic index etc., Certain cases the system will also suffer from limited observability
from the ground/on-board measurements leading in degradation of the estimated
B3.3.1
orbit. AI/ML techniques are used to improve the space weather prediction by training
the data available (past history). Combining traditional data will also aid in predicting
the behaviour of the orbit based on the seasons, and other environmental conditions,
filling the gaps created due to data paucity.
Algorithms can be developed using data available for missions with precise orbits and
measurements. These data can be trained and developed algorithms can be compared
with the avialable precise orbits.
Lunar PNT (Algorithms Development for Lunar Navigation Systems)
Accurate PVT (Position, Velocity and Timing) information is
B3.4 Sub Area becoming crucial for Lunar missions for precise landing, docking,
re-entry applications. Hence Autonomous Lunar Navigation is
being conceived in various phases (URSC)
Earth Based GNSS and Earth Station support (URSC)
In this approach, ground based (Deep Space Network Stations) and Earth Based GNSS
Receivers will be providing the PVT Services (from GTO through landing and re-entry to
the Earth). This involves development of high sensitivity GNSS Rx with dual-frequency
B3.4.1 and multi-Constellation (GPS, NavIC, GALILEO) capability and Inter-Satellite link (RF
based) and Ranging payload.
SNG Role:
Development of GNSS Rx, On-board Orbit Determination and Timing algorithms on
Integrated Avionics Platform
115

--- Page 130 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• On-board Relative OD [Fusing GNSS, ISR and other sensor measurements] for docking
at GTO, LTO and Lunar orbits
• On-board Relative Propagators
• On-board Propagator for Earth and Lunar Orbits
• Anti-Jamming Algorithms (To support GTO and re-entry phases)
• Ground based Precise Orbit Determination
Independent Lunar Navigation (URSC)
Development of “Moon-GPS” constellation using smaller, cost-effective S/c around the
Moon orbit servicing the area of interest on the Moon surface with navigation payload
ROLE:
• Navigation System Design (Space Segment, Ground Segment and User Segment,
Signals)
• Constellation design for Moon orbiting Satellites with minimum number of S/c
meeting the coverage and DOP requirements
B3.4.2 • Development of On-board ODTS (Orbit Determination-Timing System) for navigation
service
• Feasibility studies on on-board clocks (OCXO, CSAC, Atomic clocks) for meeting
navigation requirements
• Co-ordination for inter-operability and compatibility with other Lunar PNT systems
• On-board nav-processor
• Standards for co-ordinate frames, timing references compatible with other systems
• Derive Lunar-SIS ICDs, Performance standards
• Ground algorithms (for Orbit Determination, Time Synchronization)
GNSS Receivers (Anti-Jamming & Spoofing GNSS Receivers) (URSC)
The positioning of LEO S/c is being carried out using on-board GNSS Rx to provide
independent and accurate orbit information. These Rx provides advantage over ground
ranging stations in-terms of infra structure, accuracy, autonomy and serve as primary
source for relative navigation for docking missions and also provides precise timing on-
board to OBC and payloads. On the other hand, these receivers, being in LEO regions,
are vulnerable to jamming and spoofing of GNSS signals from ground or through space-
B3.4.3
based systems. This creates outages in the availability of GNSS based solution and
spoofing can even lead to estimation of erroneous orbit, posing a severe threat. Hence
it is essential to develop anti-spoofing and anti-jamming systems and algorithms on-
board to maintain the integrity and provide seamless PVT service. It involves:
• Detailed study on the GNSS signals getting jammed, mitigation adopted by other
systems, possible choice of frequencies and proposal of antenna design to reject
116

--- Page 131 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
these signals (direction antenna, filters) and advantage of multi-frequency and multi-
constellation Rx
• In-corporation of authentication mechanisms, along with SDR (Software Defined
Radio) integration
• Development of RAIM algorithm on-board (Anti-spoofing)
• Possibility of fusing GNSS measurements with other sensor data
Multi-User Detection and Signal Processing Techniques (URSC)
The space-based AIS receiver typically receives signals from a large number of SOTDMA
(Self-Organized Time Domain Multiple Access) cells over the receiving antenna footprint.
Therefore, a high number of SOTDMA cells are visible to the satellite and the organized
structure is lost resulting in message collisions which the satellite receiver may or may
B3.4.4 not process. All the received signals are sent back to ground station. The problem is to
process the received overlapped signal and identify the ships from the collided messages
and extract data of each ship separately. For Future Missions we need the following
• To implement Multi-User Detection algorithm on-board
• Feasibility of extending the concept to ADS-B (Automatic Dependent Surveillance
Broadcast) to detect aircrafts
C Area Antenna Systems (SAC)
Multimode Vortex Beam Generating Common Aperture Antenna for future OAM
based communication systems (SAC)
Orbital Angular Momentum (OAM) communication offers a promising solution by
utilizing the unique properties of vortex beams. This research topic aims to investigate
C1 the design and implementation of multimode vortex beam generating antennas to
enhance the capacity and efficiency of future OAM-based communication systems. Vortex
beams can carry multiple OAM modes simultaneously, increasing the data throughput
significantly. However, effective generation, control, and reception of multimode vortex
beams requires advanced antenna designs and signal processing techniques.
Controlled Radiation Pattern Antennas for Anti-jamming GNSS Terminals (SAC)
Jamming and interference can drastically degrade the GNSS position, navigation and
time availability even to the extent of complete cease in service. The low power GNSS
signals from space are overpowered by the excessive noise generated by the jammers,
which consequently saturates the user GNSS receiver front-end. The anti-jamming
C2 terminals have the capability to find the direction of interference and have the ability
to mitigate this interference by creating nulls in the antenna pattern in the direction
of the interference. Generally, these terminals are capable of mitigating interference
from multiple jammers. The number of simultaneous nulling direction depends on the
number of radiating elements used in the terminal. This generally creates a compromise
between the size of the terminal and the number of simultaneous nulling possible.
117

--- Page 132 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Design & Development of Terahertz Array Antennas for Space and Ground
applications (SAC)
The proposed research work will be catering THz communications and imaging systems.
Developing antenna systems at these frequencies will help in solving many problems
related to antenna realization, integration and characterization. Design and development
of terahertz array antennas involves selection of suitable radiating elements (Horn, slots,
C3
patch etc.) and design of appropriate feeding mechanism (waveguide, SIW, Gap WG etc.).
Emphasis to be on the antenna realization technology also (silicon micro machining,
metallization, CNC fabrication etc.) as it forms an important step. The RF design has to
take care of all the limitations arising from the realization methodology. The design
should also address the scalability of antenna architecture to achieve higher antenna
Gains. Suitability of material selection for space missions to be addressed.
Development of Graphene-based Flexible Wearable Antennas (SAC)
The research aims to develop a graphene-based flexible wearable antenna for
UHF (300 MHz – 900 MHz) and L&S-band (1–3 GHz) communication. Graphene’s
exceptional electrical, mechanical, and thermal properties make it an ideal candidate
C4
for next-generation antennas that need to be flexible, lightweight, and capable of high-
performance under diverse environmental conditions. The research scope includes.
Investigating the electrical conductivity and RF performance of graphene in comparison
to traditional materials like copper.
Curved reflectarray for dual band dual circularly polarized Ka-band multiple beam
antenna missions with reduced apertures (SAC)
HTS missions at Ka-band are achieved by utilizing multiple beam antenna technology
using multiple apertures. The objective of present technology is to reduce the number
of apertures by illuminating a curved reflectarray with a dual circularly polarized feed.
The dual band reflectarray so designed may have the capability to reflect the LHCP beam
C5
positively offset by half beamwidth and RHCP beam negatively offset by half beamwidth
thus generating a beam lattice. Two such reflectors can give dual frequency/polarization
four colour scheme for achieving high throughput. Complete study to achieve desirable
gain and carrier to interference ratio (C/I) with prototype development may give
confidence for further study to expose to harsh space environment conditions and
qualification.
Design and development of dual polarized low profile metallic lens antenna (SAC)
Recently, with emerging application at microwave, mm waves and THz frequencies the
C6 antennas must necessary be low-profile, lightweight and high gain systems with wide-
angle-scanning/multi-beam capabilities. Traditional solutions for the said constraints
are reflectors antennas and planar arrays. Reflectors antennas are bulky, whereas array
118

--- Page 133 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
antennas are lossy. Lens antennas, which are not popular at low frequencies due to their
large size, offers a better solution in this context, due to their wide-scanning capability,
broadband behaviour and focusing properties.
The lens antennas can transform various type of divergent electromagnetic waves into
plane waves if their geometry is properly designed and right material is used. Lens
antenna can be made from either dielectric material or purely metal. Both materials are
capable of collimating the incoming spherical electromagnetic waves by correcting the
phase differences.
At high frequencies, metallic Lens antenna have attractive electromagnetic properties
such as high directivity, wide angle beam scanning, wide impedance bandwidth, low
loss, high aperture efficiency etc. Therefore, at high frequency applications, metallic
lens antenna is considered a more promising solution in comparison to phased arrays
or other beamforming techniques. Also the structural complexity is less for this antenna
category.
Plasma antenna (SAC)
The plasma antenna is an emerging technology that partially or fully utilizes ionized gas
as the conducting medium instead of metal to create an antenna. The key advantages
of plasma antennae are that they are highly reconfigurable and can be turned on and
C7 off, which is good for stealth and resistance to electronic warfare and cyber attacks. The
plasma can be freely moved to the desired geometry of the reflector by plasma diode
which enables the beam to be steered quickly without the need for mechanical motion.
When the gas is not ionized, it allows other antennas to transmit and receive without any
interference which is a very useful feature.
D Area Electro-Optical Sensor Technology (SAC)
D1 Sub Area EO Sensor System Design, Simulation and Characterization (SAC)
Development of physics-based models for simulation of Electro-Optical Sensors
(SAC)
Design and development of EO sensors is a very complex process and requires a thorough
understanding of the system behaviour and assessment of its possible outcomes before
one embarks on the development of physical system. A physics-based model of EO
sensors can significantly help in understanding and visualizing performance aspects
D1.1 and also extensive trade-off studies. The model shall capture the functional/behavioural
characteristics of various subsystems such as optics, detectors, electronics and also shall
account for various instrument effects arising due to their complex interplay at highest
abstraction level.
The model shall help in simulating final data/images for a proposed EO sensor
configuration to enable visualization and quantitative assessment of instrument
119

--- Page 134 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
to the design parameters/system, environment/on-board processing/viewing
geometry, etc. Based on the model a software tool needs to be developed that
should interface with COTS design software systems in Optical/Mechanical/Electrical
domain and available RT models for atmospheric effect simulations. In other words,
an end-to-end model shall be developed starting from simulation of ground targets,
illumination conditions, observation geometry, intervening medium/atmosphere,
at-sensor radiance, sensor characteristics, boundary conditions (under which the
sensor is performing) leading to digital counts. The input scene to the sensor model
can be typical laboratory targets, actual ground 3D targets or images acquired from the
other sensors. This is an exciting research field and will help in the development of a
comprehensive model and simulation tool for upcoming ISRO missions.
Design and development of on-board calibration system for absolute calibration
of EO sensors (SAC)
Extensive pre-flight absolute calibration of EO sensors are carried out in laboratory for
establishing the transfer function of the EO sensors. However, due to launch loads, in-
orbit operating environment, and natural aging process of its components, the sensor
characteristics tend to change. This has significant impact on accuracy of Digital Number
(DN) to radiance conversion process, which in turn affects the remote sensing parameter
retrieval accuracies. Hence, it is important to design and develop appropriate on-board
D1.2 calibration system(s) for periodic calibration and updation of the sensor response
function to ensure desired accuracy in DN to radiance conversion. The calibration
system should ensure both radiometric and spectral calibration from visible to Infrared
Radiation (IR) spectral region. These sources can be passive or active. Research is invited
in the areas of design and development of on-board calibration sources e.g. Blackbody
for IR calibration (high emissive nano-particle coating), diffuser plate for Visible/Near-
Infrared (VIS/NIR) calibration, doped diffusers or active sources for spectral calibration.
These systems are required to be compact and stable over long period of time. This can
significantly help in improving the accuracy of payload data.
Design and development of a proto-type LIDAR system (SAC)
Light Detection and ranging (LIDAR) measures distance or characteristics of the target by
illuminating that target with a laser light. A narrow laser-beam can map physical features
with very high resolutions. Typically, light is reflected via backscattering. LIDAR can be
used for ranging, surface profiling and atmospheric studies (clouds, aerosol and wind).
D1.3
Suitable combinations of wavelengths can allow for remote mapping of atmospheric
contents by identifying wavelength dependent changes in the intensity of the returned
signal.
A LIDAR typically comprises of a transmitter chain, receiver chain and associated
electronics. Critical components of LIDAR system are high power laser system (100mJ
120

--- Page 135 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
or more with pulse duration of ~10ns), large aperture collecting optics (>1m aperture
size), detection system (time gated photon counting, interferometry, etc.). Research
opportunity exists in design and development of high power continuous and
pulsed lasers, large optical apertures, focal plane based on time gated detectors and
interferometry systems leading to proto-type development of LIDAR system.
Image Simulators and Algorithms for Characterization of Imaging Sensors (SAC)
EO sensors undergo extensive pre-flight testing and performance characterization
to ascertain sensor behaviour and demonstrate performance compliance against
specifications. Currently, static targets such as bar targets, slits, and flat field targets are
used as input scenes for the EO sensor testing and characterization. However, this limits
test capability in terms of temporal, spatial, and spectral variations in the scenes that
an EO sensor sees in the actual remote sensing scenes. Research opportunity exists for
D1.4
design and development of synthetic scene simulators to generate dynamic scenes for
EO sensor testing and characterization. Digital Mirror Device and Digital Light Processing
can be potentially used for generating Multi-spectral and Hyper spectral scenes. The
research in this field involves design and development of hardware and software
system for generating suitable synthetic scenes having required dynamic variations,
development of methods/algorithms for EO sensor performance estimation using the
sensor output and evaluation in terms of image quality metrics, etc.
System configuration and simulation studies for Sparse Aperture telescope (SAC)
The angular resolution of a traditional telescope is diffraction-limited and is given by
D1.5 1.22λ/D, where λ is the wavelength and D is the size of the optical system aperture.
However, the optical system aperture is limited by the current glass-making technology
and the cost involved. In order to overcome this limit, the technique of optical synthetic
121

--- Page 136 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
aperture have been reported in the literature. The optical synthetic aperture consists of
several telescopes (as shown in figure below) with smaller apertures, phased in a manner
to generate an equivalent large aperture.
Common Secondary Mirror Multi Telescopes
This emerging field offers significant research opportunities in terms of studying
feasible system configuration, perform extensive simulation studies, develop advanced
processing techniques for generating improved resolution imagery from the acquired
data, etc. The research will lead to development of a small-scale prototype for
demonstration and validation of design and processing techniques.
System design, simulation studies and control system development for Segmented
mirrors based EO sensor (SAC)
A segmented mirror is an array of smaller mirrors designed to act as segments of a single
large curved mirror. The segments can be either spherical or asymmetric. They are used
as objectives for large reflecting telescopes. To function, all the mirror segments have
to be polished to a precise shape and actively aligned by an active optics system using
D1.6
actuators built into the mirror support cell. In this research field opportunity exist to
study feasible system configuration, develop simulation model, design and develop
metering, actuation and control systems to maintain the segments in required shape
and orientation to get the desired performance. This research aims to develop a small-
scale prototype for demonstration and validation of the involved technology elements,
and processing techniques.
Extending Super Resolution concept to Spectral Domain (SAC)
Extraction of finer spectral resolution information from Hyper-spectral Imagery, given
a large number of relatively coarser resolution images with overlapping spectrums.
Similar to super-resolution imagery, if data is collected with a given spectral bandwidth,
D1.7
but with finer spectral sampling compared to the bandwidth, then it should be possible
to generate images having narrower spectral bandwidth. The scope of the work includes
development of models and simulation studies to demonstrate the concept and also
develop a proto-type system to study hardware implementation aspects.
122

--- Page 137 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Design and development of Active cavity radiometers (SAC)
Active cavity radiometers (ACRs) is one type of pyrheliometer used for measurement
of direct beam solar irradiance. It is an electrically self-calibrating, cavity pyrheliometer
used to measure total and spectral solar irradiance. They can be suitably tuned for
measuring radiation from UV to IR spectral region. These radiometers remain stable over
D1.8
long duration and thus can be used as a calibration standard for relative calibration of
uniform illumination sources or spectro-radiometers. Various research opportunities
in the field includes studying active cavity radiometers, define feasible system
configuration, perform extensive simulation studies and develop a proto-type model
for demonstration.
Long range 3D imaging using flash LIDARs (SAC)
3D Flash LIDARs have emerged as a potential imaging sensors for real time terrain
mapping, 3-D measurements, guidance and navigation to support in rendezvous and
soft landing missions, etc. A 3D flash LIDAR provides depth information of objects in
the scene in addition to their 2D spatial distribution. The technological elements in 3D
D1.9 flash LIDARs involve Laser head, receiver optics, focal plane unit and electronics system
with embedded image processing techniques for 3D measurements etc. This research
envisages design and development of a proto-type 3D flash LIDAR imaging systems
that involves system configuration studies, simulation studies, realization of small scale
proto-type with COTS components, development of electronics system with embedded
processing capabilities, performance characterization and field studies.
Design and development of high-resolution imaging system with active optics
correction elements (SAC)
High resolution imaging system generally employ large aperture optical systems and are
generally affected by launch loads and orbital environmental conditions, which induces
D1.10
large amount of aberrations effects leading to loss of MTF in the acquired images. Active
optics correction systems enable corrections of these deformations using an actively
controlled optical surface in the telescope chain. The proposed study aims to design and
develop an active optics correction based EO sensors for future missions.
D2 Sub Area Focal Plane Detection Systems (SAC)
CCD and CMOS sensor fabrication process modelling and simulation studies (SAC)
CCD and CMOS image sensors are mainstay sensor technology employed in spaceborne
imaging systems. State-of-the-art imaging systems require custom development of
these sensors. Sensor fabrication process and device modelling and simulation studies
D2.1
are very important milestone in the development of these sensors. SEDA has developed
a dedicated modelling and simulation lab for design of these sensors as it allows more
leverage to meet custom requirements. The lab is equipped with various simulation tool
kits such as Technology Computer-Aided Design (TCAD) and MATLAB etc.
123

--- Page 138 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
The research opportunities include modelling of CMOS and CCD based optical image
sensor fabrication process to estimate key performance parameters such as quantum
efficiency, cross talk, sensitivity, dynamic range, charge handling capacity, etc.
Modelling and simulation studies on Superlattice structure-based SWIR and MWIR
sensors (SAC)
Infrared imaging detectors are increasingly being used in the focal plane of spaceborne
imaging systems as it offers unique opportunities for variety of remote sensing
applications. SEDA has taken up modelling and simulation activities for design of exotic
D2.2 sensors operating in Short-Wave IR (SWIR), Medium-Wave IR (MWIR) and Low-Wave IR
(LWIR) spectral range. Research opportunities in this field includes TCAD and MATLAB
modelling of Type-II superlattice structure for sensitivity in IR ranges, development of
methodologies for higher temperature operation by suitably modifying stack to reduce
dark current and development of techniques for enhancement of Quantum efficiency
beyond 50%.
Design and development of high power NIR and SWIR LASER modules (SAC)
Spaceborne LIDAR systems are gaining attention of the remote sensing community
as it offers variety of applications in surveying, geodesy, geomatics, geomorphology,
seismology, forestry, atmospheric physics, laser guidance, and laser altimetry etc. One
of the important elements in the LIDAR system is high power Light Amplification by
D2.3
Stimulated Emission of Radiation (LASER) system. Currently SEDA is exploring design and
development of the of high-power NIR & SWIR laser modules. The research opportunities
include design and development of laser head, amplifier circuits, pump sources, drivers,
diffractive optical elements, cooling system etc for long distance 3D measurement and
flash LIDAR applications.
Thermal Background modelling for integrated IR detector cooler assembly (IDDCA)
(SAC)
Thermal background is one of the major sources of noise and offset in the IR detector
system. Hence, it is important to estimate thermal background flux in the IDDCA
to implement effective thermal control system. The research opportunities include
D2.4
development of physics-based model for estimation of thermal background in a given
IDDCA configuration using various software tools such ray-tracing tool, thermal analysis
tool, result visualization and quantitative estimation in Labview/Matlab etc. These
modelling efforts will help in understanding the source of thermal background and
enable improved design of IDDCA and the imaging system.
Design and development of drive circuits for CCD sensors (SAC)
The research opportunity exists in design and development of CCD based image sensor
D2.5
drive circuitry for minimization of noise floor and clock induced charges. The design shall
adopt different circuit design techniques for shaping CCD clocks (-10V to +15V, drive
124

--- Page 139 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
capacitance: 500pF, frequency: 10MHz) for maximization of stable video and reference
sampling zones.
Design and development of Photonics Integrated circuits (PIC) based system on
chip (SAC)
System-on-chip significantly helps in integrating various image sensor circuit function
in a very small footprint, thereby saving resources on payload/spacecraft. The research
D2.6
focuses on design and development of integrated circuits for clock and data multiplexing
/ demultiplexing, modulation/ demodulation, laser driver, laser and photodetector,
packaging of imaging detector with PIC based chipset to miniaturize focal plane detector
proximity electronics.
Design and development of High speed Event detector (SAC)
The research focuses on design and development of CMOS image sensor pixels for
automatic thresholding, target detection and tracking applications. Fast occurring
events could be observed by identifying them within the pixel at analog level by using
D2.7
programmable thresholding circuitry. The pixel level circuitry initiates readout by raising
appropriate flag. Such flags help row – column circuitry to readout events of interest
at high frame rate, up to 50kHz. Once of the possible application could be automatic
detection and radiometry of lighting events.
Development of process flow for CMOS chip debug (SAC)
The research opportunities exist in the de-processing, micro-surgery, hot electron
imaging active micro-probing, and IR microscopy, etc for debugging of CMOS chips.
After we fabricate any chip, it is quite challenging to debug possible problems areas
D2.8
(design, fabrication, assembly, integration, packaging and testing) if it does not meet
the desired performance. We have to develop some of the chip debug tools to be able
to debug complex chips. These sort of tools and technologies would also help to identify
possible reasons for yield reduction.
CMOS pixel process development at 180nm (SAC)
The research opportunities exist in Pinned photodiode-based pixel (7 to 50micron pitch)
D2.9
development to meet charge handling requirement from 30ke to 3Me. This research will
lead to development of pixel process for TDI CMOS focal plane arrays.
Packaging of Infrared detector arrays for multispectral application (SAC)
This research focuses on development of techniques using industry for butting of
D2.10 smaller arrays to form large arrays, integration of filter / cold shield / lens, assembly of
detector onto cold table mounted with flexible thermal link for cooling down to 50K and
minimization of thermal load by utilizing new interconnect materials.
125

--- Page 140 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Design and development of Ultraviolet detectors based on wideband gap
semiconductors (SAC)
Photon detectors based on wide band gap semiconductors have recently garnered
D2.11 considerable attention due to its suitability in development of highly sensitive ultraviolet
detectors. The scope of research includes comprehensive review of literature in the field,
understand the mechanism of these sensors, inherent advantages and disadvantages of
those detectors, explore suitable materials for producing these detectors, etc.
Development of curved sensors (SAC)
Curved image sensors have emerged as novel technology that can decouple the
traditional constraints between field-of-view (FOV), resolution and image quality. Usage
of curved sensors relaxes the stringent imaging performance requirements on the optical
systems at extreme fields. Many research groups are working on the device fabrication
D2.12
technologies. The scope of the research in this field is to explore various fabrication
process technologies, carry out design and simulation studies for pixel architecture for
curved sensors, address issues/challenges in the field and attempt to develop proto-
type curved sensor for characterization studies. This research will lead to adaption of
such curved sensors in the future spaceborne missions.
Metamaterial based absorber surfaces for image sensors applications (SAC)
Metamaterial structures have attracted substantial attention due to their ability to obtain
desired effective permittivity and permeability by carefully designing its structure. It has
resulted in the discovery of exotic phenomena such as negative refraction, cloaking,
perfect absorption etc., which are not possible with ordinary materials. Broadband
metamaterial absorber shows a promising prospect in applications such as controlled
reflectors, solar cell, infrared detection. Junyu Li, Haoran Zhou et al have developed deep
subwavelength plasmonic metamaterial absorbers for infrared detection (Conference on
Laser and Electro-Optics (CLEO) 2019 © OSA 2019). In this study, a metal-insulator-metal
D2.13 based infrared plasmonic metamaterial absorber consisting of deep subwavelength
meander line nano-antennas(MLAs) based array was fabricated and experimentally
demonstrated the absorption from 11 μm to 14 μm with a pixel pitch of 1.47 μm.
Plasmonic metamaterial absorbers (PMAs) are arrays of subwavelength-spaced metallic
nano-objects (also termed as optical antennas) whose primary function is to concentrate
the propagating light into regions much smaller than the wavelength and efficiently
dissipate the optical energy into heat via localized surface plasmon resonances (LSPRs).
The proposed research aims to explore CMOS compatible metamaterial absorber
structure, simulation of absorption characteristics of these materials, explore fabrication
feasibility, etc.
126

--- Page 141 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Dilute Magnetic Semiconductor (DMS) material synthesis for spintronics
applications (SAC)
A new class of materials known as dilute magnetic semiconductor (DMS) are
semiconductor materials that exhibit both ferromagnetism (and a similar response)
and useful semiconductor properties. If implemented in devices, these materials could
provide a new type of control of conduction. Whereas traditional electronics are based
D2.14 on control of charge carriers (n- or p-type), but magnetic semiconductors would also
allow control of quantum spin state (up or down). DMS have been a major focus of
magnetic semiconductor research. These are based on traditional semiconductors,
but are doped with transition metals instead of, or in addition to, electronically active
elements. Due to their novel properties of change and spin control, they have generated
huge interest among the scientific community as a strong candidate for the fabrication
of spin transistors and spin-polarized light-emitting diodes.
Optical Beam Steering Photonic Chip for Lidar (SAC)
In a Lidar, a laser beam is formed to concentrate the optical power within single pixel
instead of the whole scene, which makes it a point-wise measurement system. To form
an image, the beam is scanned through the FOV Namely, a beam scanner. Scanning
LiDAR achieves higher signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at the cost of lower points per second
(i.e. point throughput) and slower frame rate, and more importantly, at the cost of
having a beam scanner. Beam scanner is often realized through mechanical actuation
of either the source itself or the discrete optics around the source. While mechanical
D2.15 optical beam scanner design is already an established domain of engineering, there is a
fundamental challenge associated with achieving good control precision and reliability
goals for automotive vehicles using a low-cost mechanical system. To reduce the unit
cost of a scanner module and make it feasible for consumer electronics, various solid-
state beam scanning solutions are the preferred option. There are many approaches
to realize a photonic chip for Optical beam steering like MEMS Switch based array of
grating coupler, Optical phased array, true time delay based beam steering, etc. The
beam steering chip shall define the beam width of less than 0.2 degree and shall steer
the beam within 20 degrees in both axes.
On-chip nano wire grid fabrication for polarization sensing (SAC)
Traditional imaging systems have focused on capturing and replicating the imaged
environment in terms of colour and intensity. One important property of light, which the
human eye is blind to and it is ignored by traditional imaging systems, is polarization.
D2.16 Polarization of light caused by reflection from materials contains information about the
surface roughness, geometry and other properties of the imaged environment.
Polarization-contrast imaging has proven to be very useful in gaining additional visual
information in optically scattering environments, such as target contrast enhancement
in hazy/foggy conditions, depth map of the scene in underwater imaging, presence
127

--- Page 142 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
of ice in clouds or non-spherically shaped dust particles and in normal environmental
conditions, such as classifications of chemical isomers, classifications of pollutants in
the atmosphere, and non-contact fingerprint detection among others. In addition,
polarization of light has found a niche in many biomedical applications, such as imaging
for early skin cancer detection, cell classification and retinal surgery.
Wire grid polarizer is compatible with complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor
(CMOS) technology, and it can be fabricated monolithically by using metal layers for
wiring. Using deep-submicron CMOS technologies, which allow the design of metal
patterns finer than 100 nm. The angle (0, 45, 90 and 135 degree) of the polarizer on each
pixel can be designed.
D3 Sub Area Design and Development of Optical Systems (SAC)
Optical systems using freeform surfaces (SAC)
Freeform optics offers more degrees of freedom to optical design that can benefit from
a compact package size and a large field of view for imaging systems. The introduction
of freefrom optical surfaces in a space instrument offers the possibility to improve
its performance, its volume and weight or a combination of both. Motivated by the
advances in modern optical fabrication and metrology, freeform optics has found place
in many applications. The freeform mirrors are manufactured by diamond turning based
on a feedback modification strategy.
Freeform optics involve optical designs with at least one freeform surface which,
according to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standard 17450-
1:2011, has no translational or rotational symmetry about axes normal to the mean
D3.1
plane. Integration of freeform optics and surfaces into imaging systems remains a
major challenge. However, the new degrees of freedom introduced by freeform optics
designs are the driver to overcoming these challenges. These additional degrees of
freedom enable many potential advantages, including system miniaturization, reduced
component count and even entirely new optical functionality that will have a profound
effect on the optics industry.
Research activity that can be taken up is to utilize freeform surfaces to design future
telescopes with wide field of view. One particular study can be carried out to show how
the freeform optics can be used to miniaturize/improve the performance of an optical
system. Another interesting research activity is the fabrication and testing of free form
surfaces (IR/ Visible range.
Chalcogenide optics in dual-band IR Applications (SAC)
The development of dual-band IR sensors that image both MWIR and LWIR on the same
D3.2 image plane challenges the optical designer to create refractive lens systems with
one aperture. In the past, classic materials such as Ge and ZnSe have been combined
with more exotic materials such as barium fluoride (BaF2) and gallium arsenide (GaAs)
128

--- Page 143 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
to focus light across a wide range of IR wavelengths. Material limitations create
unique challenges for wideband chromatic correction. Existing and new formulations
of chalcogenide glasses provide additional indices of refraction and dispersion
characteristics for chromatic correction as well as thermo-optic properties for
athermalization. Chalcogenide glass is an increasingly important tool for the optical
designer, providing a versatile material for many applications—from thermal imaging
to hyperspectral imaging. The properties of these amorphous glasses are useful over a
broad spectral range, from the near-infrared (NIR) at 700 nm well into the LWIR spectrum.
Chalcogenide glasses consist of mixtures of the Group 16 elements selenium (Se),
sulphur (S), and tellurium (Te), and various Group 14 and 15 elements such as arsenic
(As), germanium (Ge), tin (Sn), and others. These glasses are well suited for imaging in
the IR regime because of their high transmission, low dispersion, and low refractive-
index change with temperature. By changing concentration ratios, glass properties can
be tailored for index of refraction, dispersion, glass transition temperature, and other
properties. This gives the optical designer or the lens manufacturer more freedom than
traditional IR materials. As traditional IR materials such as Ge and zinc selenide (ZnSe) rise
in cost, the use of chalcogenide glasses is becoming more widespread. Chalcogenide
materials offer substantial savings today in both the raw material cost and in fabrication
methods such as molding technology. They also provide numerous benefits to systems
with stringent specifications. There are many sources for chalcogenide glasses, including
Vitron GmbH (Jena, Germany), SCHOTT North America (Duryea, PA), and IRradiance Glass
(Orlando, FL), which produces a number of glass types along with custom melts.
Rochester Precision Optics developed moulded micro- and nanostructures in
chalcogenide glasses. The optical properties of chalcogenide optics can be altered by
nanoscale surface textures. Antireflective structures that reduce reflectance significantly
reduce glare and improve transmission.
Unlike a thin-film coating that creates interference effects, nanostructures are not
bandwidth-limited. Hybrid structures have demonstrated performance over dual-
band regions (3–12 μm), showing promise for future applications such as high damage
threshold for lasers, super hydrophobicity, and antifogging. While these functionalities
have been shown on the development scale, there are still great challenges in developing
industrial fabrication methods that can reduce the cost of such nanostructured materials.
This rapidly evolving world of high-volume, low-cost IR optics, along with the expansion
of extremely demanding dual-band IR applications, has created a requisite for use of
chalcogenide glasses. Chalcogenide materials have the ability to be altered and provide
optical and systems designers many more options than historic IR material offerings
without compromise.
129

--- Page 144 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
The scope of the proposal is as follows:
• Study of feasibility for use of chalcogenide glasses for spaceborne remote sensing
application.
• Design of dual band IR common optics using chalcogenide glasses that will image
both MWIR and LWIR on the same or different imaging sensors.
• Collaboration with indigenous industry and universities for realization of Chalcogenide
optics via. Fabrication, assembly and testing for achieving the desired performance
goals.
Adaptive test techniques for Aspherics and Freeform surfaces (SAC)
During the manufacturing of optics, the in-process (i.e., not-yet-completed) optical
surface must be accurately measured to correctly guide the iterative fabrication process.
The customized null element makes the process time taking and costly.
Also, for interferometric surface form measurement of final freeform surfaces the
measurement is limited by the Nyquist criteria, which is often encountered due to large
slope of freeform surfaces.
To overcome this, one of the current techniques is Adaptive interferometric null testing
method
The adaptable null component may be a Spatial Light Modulator or Deformable Mirror.
1) Test set-up using deformable mirror
D3.3
When an unknown test optic is first inserted into the metrology system, non-ideal
(e.g., partial) interference fringes could be observed.
Next, the DM is driven based on the results from the algorithm recovering near-null
interference fringes. This creates an online null condition for the freeform surface.
The interferometer measurements, along with the results from the Deflectometry
System are combined to produce the final surface shape data.
130

--- Page 145 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
The algorithm, that is used for fringe restoration will be heavily influenced by the merit
function which is provided as the required target. A smart choice of this merit function
will result in a quicker and more efficient convergence (to the ideal or threshold value.)
Limitation of the method: DM has limited range of stroke of actuators and can only
compensate mild free form departures.
The DM will be developed and characterised by industry/academia, which can further
be integrated in to the test set up at SAC. The other important part of the test set up i.e.
Deflectometry system used to monitor the DM surface can be developed jointly by SAC
& academia.
Test set up using Spatial Light Modulator (SAC)
The DM-based null test is adaptive and economical compared to CGH; however, DM has
limited range of stroke of actuators and can only compensate mild free form departures.
A high-definition (i.e., >1080 pixels, <5 μm pitch) spatial light modulator (SLM)
circumvents the limitation of the DM.
The phase conjugation algorithm is additionally utilized for turning resolvable fringes
into null ones. Finally, local severe surface figure error is extracted from the SLM phase
and the null test result by reverse optimization based on ray trace model.
D3.4
TDP is already going on. Collaboration may be sought on development of algorithm. The
commonly used algorithms for such applications are widely used in Machine Learning
applications. Some of the algorithms are
• Stochastic Parallel Gradient Descent
• Simplex Optimization
• Genetic Algorithm
• Simulated Annealing
Simulation can be carried on supplied data and later verified experimentally at SAC.
131

--- Page 146 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Tilted Wave Interferometer (SAC)
The use of aspheric and freeform surfaces becomes more and more important in the
design of modern optical systems. These surfaces offer additional degrees of freedom
to the optical design, allowing to improve the optical imaging as well as to reduce the
number of surfaces needed for an optical design. However, testing of such surfaces
is still a difficult task. This issue can be addressed using the technique of Tilted Wave
interferometer.
TWI is non-null, full-field interferometric measuring technique for aspheric and free-
D3.5
form surfaces with a new degree of flexibility. The interferometer uses a set of tilted
wave fronts to locally compensate the deviation of the surface under test from its
spherical form. Also since its non-null technique, hence the costly optics is not required
for testing. The main difference of this approach to the scanning type interferometers is
that the acquisition of the data is highly parallelized, since all test wavefronts are applied
to the surface in only four steps. Further, the surface under test (SUT) does not have to
be moved during the measurement process. Both these advantages lead to a very short
measurement time of far under a minute.
Optical Design of telescope for space observatory for study of Exoplanets (SAC)
Planets that orbit around other stars are known as Exoplanets. Exoplanets are very hard
to see directly with telescopes. They are hidden by the bright glare of the stars they orbit.
Therefore, indirect methods such as radial velocity, transit photometry/spectroscopy and
timing variation methods are used to detect exoplanets. In some cases, direct imaging
method is also used to find exoplanets.
The telescope to study exoplanets can consist of a single instrument (eg. Characterising
ExOPlanets Satellite (CHEOPS) of European Space Agency (ESA)) or a cluster of instuments
D3.6
(eg. Habitable Exoplanet (HabEx) of National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA)). The design options include Ritchey-Chritien (RC) or a three mirror anastigmat
(TMA) design followed by science instruments. The spectral range of these telescopes
generally include ultraviolet (UV), visible and near-infrared (near-IR), shortwave infrared
(SWIR) and sometimes midwave infrared (MWIR) regions. The telescopes include both
imaging and spectroscopic capabilities. Stray light suppression using effective baffling is
very important as the faint light from exoplanets should not be suppressed by any other
light coming from earth or stars. Research in this field is invited for the development of
optical systems for upcoming exoplanet missions.
Design and development of Volume Holographic Grating (VHG) (SAC)
VHGs are widely used in ground based astronomical spectrometers with moderate to
D3.7 large diameter telescopes ranging anywhere between 8 meters to 10 meters. These
have also been extensively used in gas sensors where spectral peaks with very narrow
bandwidths are required to match with gas absorption spectra. They are suitable for
132

--- Page 147 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
both ground and spaceborne applications. Considering the major advantage of higher
number of grooves/mm and consequently finer spectral bandwidth of few picometer,
the VHG have been used in multiple global space missions like Sentinel 3A and Rosetta
etc. This research proposes design, fabrication and characterization of a plane/curved
VHG for spaceborne imaging spectrometers for astronomical observations and
environmental monitoring.
The fabrication of VHG basically involves writing of a typical pattern by optical interference
between two coherent laser beams (reference and object beams) superposing in
a photosensitive material making fringes in the material by means of a periodical
variation of the refractive index (i.e. a sinusoidal profile) throughout the volume of the
photosensitive material. The technique enables writing 600 to 6000 grooves/mm on a
substrate diameter upto 850 mm.
Scope of the research
• Modelling of the grating with peak efficiency at required wavelength mainly catering
to VNIR and SWIR, fabrication and characterization.
• Indigenous/ in-house development of the holographic exposure system to record
fringe pattern of desired frequency and orientation using photo-polymer coated
plane/curved glass substrate.
• Indigenous / in-house development of photo-polymer or gelatin like films.
• Development of a suitable processing technique so that modulation pattern is
accurately reproduced after a wet-dry processing cycle.
• Exploring feasibility for space usage and carrying out related testing.
Computer Generated Holograms (CGH) (SAC)
Aspheric and freeform optical surfaces are frequently used in spaceborne/airborne
sensing instruments as they help in reducing the number of optical components in
the system, thereby reducing the size and weight of the sensing instruments. Aspheric
surfaces are usually tested using null interferometric testing methods: either refractive
(null lens) or diffractive (Computer generated Holograms). A Computer Generated
Hologram (CGH) is produced via computer synthesis, where the object does not exist
physically but it is expressed in mathematical terms. CGH’s can generate any shape of
D3.8
wavefront including freeform. Two types of CGH’s are used: Amplitude CGH (chrome
pattern on glass) and Phase CGH (Pattern etched on glass). High precision and high
resolution CGH’s can be fabricated using microlithography technologies like electron
beam lithography and laser beam lithography. These microlithographic techniques are
common in semiconductor industry for integrated circuits (IC) fabrication.
Scope of the Research:
• Resist (e-beam or photo resist) coating,
133

--- Page 148 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• Electron beam / Direct Write Laser (DWL) Lithography for resist patterning,
• Resist development, Metallization (E-Beam evaporation),
• Lift-off or Wet Chemical Etching for Amplitude CGH and Glass dry etching for
Phase CGH.
Design and development of Strip Filters in VNIR spectral range (SAC)
Strip filters are interference filters. The strip filter assembly can be developed using
butcher block technique. In this the filter strips catering to different spectral bands are
glued together to form an array. Using the coating facility (SYRUSpro1110) at thin film
lab SEDA, the required band pass filter (B1-B4) coatings will be developed. These filters
are then diced into strips of required widths using the dicing facility in the lab. Four filter
strips belonging to different bands (B1-B4) will then be glued together to form the filter
D3.9
arrays. These activities can be carried out at SAC.
In order to use it on board, one needs to block the stray radiations at the junction of the
strips, for which masking coating needs to be applied, which also defines precisely the
clear aperture of each filter strip. For this purpose, we need to use lithography followed
by masking coating deposition followed by dry etching. At present these facilities are
not available in the lab, hence the facilities available at other institutions can be utilized
for this purpose.
Development of band pass filters with controlled thickness variation across the
filter length (SAC)
The interference band pass filters are sensitive to angle of incidence. Not only the central
wavelength shifts due to angle but also the shape and transmission changes at higher
incidence angles. This becomes more significant in case of narrow band pass filters. In
optical payloads with large field of view, it becomes almost mandatory to design the
tele centric optics in order to minimize this effect. This in turn makes the design very
D3.10 complicated and may require aspheric components, which are difficult to fabricate. In
order to reduce spectral shifts due to large angles, a band pass filter can be design to
compensate for this shift by introducing controlled variability in the filter thickness. The
variability can be introduced by designing the appropriate masks, which will be filter
specific. By replacing conventional filters by these variable filters, the optical design can
be made very simple. The design of these filters will be done in house. Development
of the controlled thickness variation of the coating across the filter will be taken up in
collaboration with Academic institutions.
Development of IR filters (SAC)
For payloads, involving IR imaging we need filters catering to the spectral range from
3 – 15 microns. The proposal is to design the filters in house and get it coated with the
D3.11
help of institutions within India. At present, the thin film lab does not have the facilities
to develop the coatings in the IR spectral range. These activities can be taken up with the
help of other institutions within India.
134

--- Page 149 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Development of Rugate Notch Filters (SAC)
Notch filters are optical filters that selectively rejects a portion of the spectrum, while
transmitting all the other wavelengths. Notch filters based on the principle of optical
interference can be fabricated using Rugate dielectric stack, which provides high
reflection in a narrow wavelength region and high transmission outside.
These filters act as mirrors for a narrow band of wavelengths. In the free space optical
D3.12
communication as well as in space based detect ability and identification of submersibles.
In this high energy, LASER pulse is transmitted from ground based station towards a space
based mirror that scans over a specific oceanic area looking for returns from underwater
objects. These filters can replace the reflectors. This will reduce the background noise,
as they will only reflect the narrow band of wavelengths around the LASER wavelength.
They are also useful in the RAMAN spectroscopy and fluorescence based imaging.
AI enabled design of next generation optics/optical systems (SAC)
The traditional design method for imaging optics is to first find a starting point, and then
perform optimization. However, for freeform system design, proper starting points with
similar system specifications and special nonsymmetrical configurations are very rare,
which greatly increases the possibility of using extensive human effort.
Use of Deep learning algorithms (Artificial Neural Network (ANN) in particular) can
significantly aid in finding optimized starting points for imaging system design. This
D3.13 research work envisages development of an intelligent framework where the entire
design process need not be repeated again and will result in faster development of EO
payloads. A typical AI enabled design framework.
This approach offers several advantages, particularly in the situation where there are
limited existing designs and patents and knowledge is limited. The intelligent framework
developed can be used to learn from the previous added designs. Moreover, designers
do not have to manage the starting point exploration or analytical/numerical design
process.
Zerodur, Silicon Carbide, Schott Glass blank development (SAC)
Zerodur, Silicon Carbide, Schott Glass blank materials are required for the fabrication
of Optics (reflective/Refractive telescope). Zerodur is glass ceramic and its CTE is nearly
D3.14
zero and used for reflective optics development. Schott glasses are used for refractive
optics development. Indigenous development of these blanks will significantly aid in
payload design and developmental activities for future ISRO missions.
D4 Sub Area Electronics System Design and Development (SAC)
Development of Integrated Circuits for Harsh Environment Operation (SAC)
D4.1 Harsh Environments are defined as environments, which are characterized by high/low
temperatures, extreme vibration loads, harsh chemical environment, high radiation etc.
135

--- Page 150 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
The electronics or systems required to operate under such harsh/extreme conditions
have application such as in aircraft engines, automotive, oil-well drilling and space
exploration like near to Sun and planets like Venus where the surface temperature
is appx. >400°C. Hence there is a requirement of development of electronics and
sub-systems (both commercial and space) which can operate under extreme
environments.
Present technology used in development of integrated circuits are mostly Silicon which
is suitable for reliable operation when the temperature is <150°C. The other technology
Silicon-On-Insulator (SOI) can operate upto temperatures <300°C. Hence, these ICs
are susceptible to damage in high temperature and radiation environment and hence
require additional distancing and shielding, thereby putting restrictions to where these
circuits can be placed.
Recent developments have shown use of wide bandgap (WBG) semi-conductors
like Silicon Carbide (SiC), Gallium Nitride (GaN), diamond etc. These materials have
shown tremendous resistance to harsh temperature and radiation. Development of
an integrated (like SiC-CMOS) circuit technology enables development of integrated
circuits which are stable in harsh environments.
The benefits are improved reliability, reduction in size / weight and power for cooling
systems (which are typically required when conventional electronics (Si or SOI) is used)
and possibility of direct sensing and control systems in harsh environment.
System Modelling and Controller Development for IR Payloads (SAC)
Various control systems are used in IR payload for controlling the temperature of various
Opto-mechanical elements. IR detector requires temperature control of IDDCA cold tip,
detector window, Blackbody and other elements within few mK accuracy and stability.
There is a need to develop an executable model of the system including the plant using
first principle methods or other methods (using experimental data). MATLAB or other
modelling tools can be used for developing the executable model.
Methodology:
D4.2
• In first principle method, equations governing the working principle of the plant are
developed. Consideration to material properties and interfaces are given to develop
accurate relationships between controlling variable and controlled variable.
If information related to operation of some blocks are not available, field data
(experimental data) can be used to model these blocks.
• Above models are simulated and Controller is tuned and optimized for best
performance in terms of overshoot, rise time, settling error and stability.
• Additional logic e.g. safety logic can be included for protection against over current /
voltage.
136

--- Page 151 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
• Controller architecture algorithm should be selectable / programmable.
• This PID controller is to be implemented in Micro-controller/FPGA. To achieve this
translation from the system level model to HDL or C language is required. This can be
achieved using C Code or HDL coder toolboxes or similar tools/ methods.
• Generated HDL/C Code are simulated and compared against the results from system
level model.
• Final validation is done by doing Hardware in loop tests with the actual FPGA/Micro-
controller.
ASIC: Design, Simulation, Fabrication and Modelling (SAC)
The scope the activity covers Analog, Digital and Mixed signal ASIC design, simulation,
verification, layout, tape-out and fabrication. The main motivation is miniaturization and
indigenization of electronics in the form of low power ASICs and Readout Integrated
Circuits (ROICs) with objective of integrating multiple functionality in a single device. The
ultimate goal is to integrate individual blocks to realize “System on Chip (SOC)”. Some of
the ASICs, but not limited to, are multi-channel Analog Front end device for detector
D4.3 signal processing, High data rate Serializer-deserializer, High precision low noise multi-
output voltage reference, programmable bias generator and regulators (negative and
positive), Bipolar high speed high capacitive CCD clock drivers, IR detector ROICs, multi-
channel temperature controller, switches etc. Design and development of radiation
hardened library covering standard cells and devices is also covered under the scope.
ASIC modelling either software or based on implementation in FPGA/microcontroller
of various ASICs to be part of various system level simulations and optimizations is also
envisaged.
Modelling of Special Components, Interfaces, Hardware (SAC)
Modelling of various state of the art mixed signal devices, detectors, interfaces etc is
envisaged. Font-End design (detector proximity electronics) of an electro-optical payload
faces lot of constraints w.r.t system requirements, detector used, real estate availability,
harness routing, mechanical design, optical ray diagram, thermal requirements,
grounding scheme, hardware in the vicinity etc. Also almost all electro-optical payloads
D4.4 are unique for each mission w.r.t above constraints and it becomes impractical and
non-optimal to use a common standardized design for front end electronics. Hence
development of various models of components, detectors, interfaces taking into account
mechanical constraints, layout, routing, signal integrity, thermal issues, pcb size, circuit
topology, grounding scheme, hardware in the vicinity etc needs to be developed. The
development of this kind of integrated model will help in better understanding of the
system performance at early stage and faster realization of the hardware.
137

--- Page 152 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Generic Multi-Channel Front-End and Digital Proportional-Integral-Derivative
(PID) Controller with actuator interface ASIC for Temperature Control (SAC)
Electro-optical payload cameras have many elements like detector, calibration source,
optical elements etc. which need stabilized temperature for proper functioning. Range
of temperature depends on system engineering, physics involved in device working
and overall mission performance specification. Passive cooling is popular and simpler
method for temperature control. Cooled object (achieved through deep space radiative
coupling) is heated using close loop system to maintain defined temperature. In this
scheme, Thermistor or Platinum Resistance Thermometer (PRT) are used as temperature
sensor. Foil heater of required capacity are used as actuator. Control is either based on
On/Off method or PID method. Other type of temperature control uses active cooling
where very low temperature (<200K, cryo-temperature) is to be achieved. This approach
uses transistor Vbe to sense cryo-temperature. Linear or Brushless Direct Current (BLDC)
motor is used to achieve cooling. Actuator drive signal is 50Hz AC sine wave or Two/
D4.5
Three phase pulses.
In general, any digital domain based temperature controller has (a) Temperature Sensor
(b) Signal conditioner (c) Digitizer (d) PID or On/Off control logic (e) Interface control
signals for actuator driver (f) Driver for actuator excitation. ASIC proposed for blocks
(b), (c), (d) and (e) is multi-channel (typically eight) independent temperature signal
conditioning channel ASIC, with versatile and generic design, planned to support
multiple application of temperature control. Offset and gain control in signal conditioner
blocks is required to allow temperature control using PRT and Thermistors. 3 PRT, 3
Thermistor and 2 Transistor based channels are planned. Digital interface (Low Voltage
Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor (LVCMOS)/ Low-Voltage Differ-ential
Signaling (LVDS)) is planned for actuator driver control. 2 On/Off actuators control, 4
PID actuator control and 2 motor actuator control are planned. Digital PID controller
should be programmable using CAN or any other interface for adaptability to multiple
applications.
ASIC development of Generic N-channel MOSFET drivers and PWM generator with
integrated Current and Hall Effect sensing mechanism and sigma delta ADC (SAC)
The main objective of development of this ASIC is complete indigenization of space
grade motor drive electronics. Generic design of Metal-Oxide Semiconductor Field
D4.6
Effect Transistor (MOSFET) driver is aimed for half bridge control. The ASIC envisaged
also has integrated current sense amplifier, hall effect sensing, Pulse-width modulation
(PWM) generator and ADC. N-channel MOSFET drivers are mainly used in N-channel
Metal-Oxide Semiconductor (NMOS) based drive circuits of stepper motors, BLDC
138

--- Page 153 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
motors, Cryo-coolers etc. A MOSFET driver is a type of power amplifier that accepts PWM
signals and produces a high current (>1A) / high voltage (>10V) drive input for the gate
of a high-power transistor (such as power MOSFET) with fast switching frequencies
(>100KHz) and dead time (~500ns).
Current sensor amplifies a small differential input voltage developed by the current
flowing in a sense resistor at the load side. The processing circuit processes the electrical
signal generated by Hall Effect sensor or resolver output. Modern Sigma-delta converters
offer high resolution, high integration, low power consumption, and low cost, making
them a good ADC choice. Multi-channel delta sigma ADC is required for processing
control parameters e.g. Load current, voltage etc. The Independent PWM Generator
(switching frequency > 100KHz) block is required to generate pulses for carrier-based
pulse width modulation converters. The block can be used to fire the MOSFETs of single-
phase, two-phase, three-phase bridges. PWM resolution of >10 bit is preferred. PWM
generator shall provide internal or external reference input for modulation and shall
have a bypass option for providing input from external FPGA/uC. An uncommitted (low
bandwidth, precision) op-amp is required, so they can be tuned based on the application.
The gain resistor of op-amps should be external to allow the buffer and filtering of
required signals. Typical specifications and block diagram of the ASIC is as below.
Typical Specifications:
• 4 High and 4 Low side outputs
• >1A drive per output
• High side voltage/bootstrap voltage > 50V
• Programmable dead time up-to 500ns
• 3 Current sensors
• 4/8 channel sigma delta ADC, >12 bits, >100ksps
• 6 bi-level inputs for Hall sensors
• Resolver interface (optional)
• Optional Buffered PWM inputs (3.3V or 5V)
• In-built PWM Generator with bypass option
• PWM resolution: better than 10 bits
• PWM frequency > 100KHz
• Duty cycle range: 5% to 95%
• Un-committed Op-amp (BW- 1MHz, typical)
• Serial programming
139

--- Page 154 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Block Diagram:
Reconfigurable System-On-Chip based solution for satellite on-board computing
(SAC)
High speed computing has always played an important role in on-board data processing
and control. On-board computing has been represented mainly by the on-board
computer (OBC), which is the kernel of the On-Board Data Handling (OBDH) system that
is central to the overall satellite design and its operations. The OBDH system is an integral
part of the satellite platform and in many missions extends to comprise various elements
of payload electronics. In future missions, there is need for advance technologies that
can be achieved via miniaturized multi- System-on-Chip (SoC) processor designs.
Now a day, the increasing requirements of on-board reconfiguration and on the fly
programming capability, system-on-a-programmable-chip (SoPC) designs has emerged
as a major enabling technology. It is envisaged that the application of the SoPC concept
to on-board computing will result in radical improvements and unleash new capabilities.
D4.7
In addition to the benefits of SoC design, such as reduction of size, complexity and cost,
it can provide the means to build flexible and modifiable on-board computing systems.
The SoC platform can be configured to meet different mission requirements.
The SoC on-board computer (SoC-OBC) consists of mainly soft IP cores, programmable
gate arrays including the LEON/ Advanced RISC Machine (ARM) processor and multiple
peripheral devices. A purpose-built Direct Memory Access (DMA) controller handles
the data transfers between the peripheral cores and the main memory. The AMBA AHB
and AXi buses is for interfacing of high-performance system modules. The Advanced
Microcontroller Bus Architecture (AMBA) Aadhaar Payment Bridge (APB) bus supports
peripheral functions with minimal power consumption and reduced interface
complexity. The CAN, High-level Data Link Control (HDLC), SpaceWire and space fibre
network interface controllers and the EDAC block are typical components and interfaces
for use in space.
140

--- Page 155 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Designing On-board Computer consisting of programmable system on chip hardware
is really challenging and this will provide the common miniaturized hardware platform
for multiple missions along with providing seamless solutions and flexibility of
programming, controller, data processing and standard interfaces.
Scope of Research:
• Design and development of On-board computer hardware encompassing mainly
Programmable System on chip(PSOC), Rad hard FPGA, high end memories and all
standard interface CAN/Spacefibre/Serdes/LVDS interfaces along with SI and PI
analysis with industry collaboration.
• Soft cores IP design for standard interfaces and Logic
• Standard Memory DDR2/3, ONFI controller designs.
• External peripheral interfaces design &development.
• Embedded processsor/LEON/ARM processor interface with FPGA.
• Onboard partial n selective configuration.
• Space fibre codec n network design and development.
Real time image processing in on-board Space systems (SAC)
Target detection and tracking has gained significant importance in many applications,
including optical communication, inter-satellite communication, motion detection,
reconnaissance and surveillance in which the major is to reveal trajectories of the
targets. Considering the recent developments, many electro-optical systems are in need
of full automation for achieving this task. Therefore, many multi-tracking algorithms
include two fundamental stages as the automatic, time independent detection of tar-
gets; and association of the detections in the temporal space. Problems remains to be
challenging mainly due to unknown and changing number of targets; noisy and missing
observations; interaction of multiple targets. Moreover, all these challenges are needed
to be solved in a time efficient manner for real-time applications in space systems.
D4.8 Scope of Research:
• Study and implementation of object detection algorithm for low SNR targets and its
real time implementation in on-board FPGA hardware
• Tracking algorithm development: Kalman for tracking and trajectory prediction.
• Study/development of Optical Flow algorithm for planetary landing.
• DSP based real /near real time data processing for signal analysis and image processing.
• Real Time decision making for Landing System.
• Machine learning techniques along with computer vision techniques need to be
studied and implemented for the targets required for obstacle detection, landing site
and surveillance.
• Real Time Operating System (RTOS) optimisation for on board
141

--- Page 156 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Power supply systems for Space missions (SAC)
Payloads for Remote sensing and planetary exploration missions require state of art
Power Supply electronics to cater to various requirements of Camera Electronics sub
systems. These Power Supply Electronics requires to meet several stringent requirements
such as multi-output voltage lines in range 3.8V to 24V, very low noise (≤20mV), high
efficiency (>70%), EMI 461E complaint, inbuilt input power protection and output short
circuit protection.
The following technologies are of particular interest in future Power Supply electronics
development
a. Very Low noise (≤5mV), Low power (<10W), highly efficient (>80%) complying with
EMI 461E standard, space grade isolated power supply /module.
b. Multi-output (3 to 4 voltage lines in range 3.8V to 24V), high efficiency (>80%),
D4.9
Medium Power (25W – 100W), Low noise (≤15mV) complying with EMI 461E standard
isolated space grade power supply
c. Development of Hybrid Micro Circuit (HMC) based miniaturised dual output (+3.8V
and +5.6 V) DC-DC converters with high efficiency (>75%), medium power (> 30 W),
inbuilt EMI filter and having EMI/EMC compliance to MIL-STD-461E.
d. Development of housekeeping and protection circuitry in the form of HMC to
monitor and protect power supply electronics from various fault conditions such as
Overvoltage and under-voltage protection, Over temperature protection, Overcurrent
protection and Output Short circuit protection
e. Development of Rad-hard non-isolated synchronous buck converters for wide input
voltage (10-30VDC), adjustable output voltage (from 3V to 80% of Vin) and high
output current ( >10A).
Optical data transmission system for Nano/micro payloads (SAC)
High resolution wide swath imaging typically requires payloads and satellites of large
dimensions & weight. Huge amount of data requires to be transmitted to ground requiring
multiple transmitters further increasing the mass and size. Cost of such satellites is too
high. Development time is large and penalty associated with any component under
performing/ malfunctioning is large. Alternative approach is to develop a constellation
D4.10 of Nano satellites to cater to above requirements. However traditional Nano satellites
suffer from low data transmission capability and poor pointing accuracy. To overcome
this problem it is proposed to develop a Nano satellite utilizing optical data transmission.
However incorporating a traditional Optical Communication Terminal (OCT) is not
feasible in the mass and power constraints of a Nano platform. It is therefore proposed
to develop & demonstrate a miniaturized Optical data transmission system to enhance
the capabilities of ISRO’s small satellites.
142

--- Page 157 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Single Board Controller based Payload & Mainframe Electronics for High Resolution
Nano Satellites (SAC)
Traditional ISRO Nano satellites (~10Kg) are capable of providing ~20m resolution from
LEO orbits. However higher resolution & lower mass is desirable for future Nano missions.
A Nano Satellites consists of following subsystems:
• Payload sub-systems (Sensor, Electronics, Optics, Mechanical)
• Mainframe subsystems (Attitude Control system ,OBC, RF system)
• Electrical Harness
• Mechanical Frame/Housing for Payload and Mainframe
• DC-DC for payload
• DC-DC for Mainframe
D4.11
Present approach has dedicated electronics for various functions of the payload and
satellite mainframe e.g.
• Sensor Bias, Sensor Control, Sensor data processing, Compression , Data Formatting,
Data Transmission is managed via 2-3 Boards.
• Payload DC-DC Electronics Board
• Satellite mainframe OBC Board, ADCS Board, RF Board.
• Mainframe DC-DC Electronics Board
For reducing the overall satellite mass (<5kg) while improving payload performance
(resolution, swath, SNR), miniaturization & integration of various Electronics is proposed.
A Single Board High Performance Controller along with a bus structure shall be
developed carrying out functions of Sensor Bias, Sensor Control, Sensor data processing,
Compression, Data Formatting, Satellite mainframe OBC, ADCS, RF Data Transmission.
Space qualified flexible EMI Shielding and Radiation resistant coatings and
enclosures for Onboard Electronics (SAC)
High speed electronics systems, miniaturization of PCBs, Electronics packages, small
payloads and other such advanced capabilities, electronic sub systems requires
highly populated PCBs / Packages / harnesses to support their functionality and
performance requirements. Such compact/dense packaging causes EMI effects.
Traditional metal EMI shields take too much space thereby reducing the overall
D4.12
competitive functionality of electronic devices and increases the size as well.
Therefore, more recently, the research focus is on flexible coatings and enclosures
developed from nanocomposites. Therefore, we feel the requirement of the development
of MIL-STD-461E compliant flexible EMI shielding and radiation tolerant enclosure, which
can be easily applied and adapted onto a PCB design and very sensitive signal lines.
The required composites should suite the needs of ISRO especially like space-qualified
143

--- Page 158 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
material, high thermal stability, flame retardant and durable for mission life of more
than 10 years. These composites can be explored for designing materials that can shield
radiation and protect PCBs and harnesses without much overheads. The qualification
of these composites, but not limited to, should include Thickness measurement test,
thermal shock test, thermos vacuum test, humidity test, coating peel test, outgassing
test etc.
The design of enclosures should be in a way that they don’t need to be electrically
grounded to the PCB, thus simplifying or eliminating masking. This should also be able
to address EMI issues on the PCB, in between tightly packed semiconductor devices and
can be tuned to absorb EMI at specific required frequencies. The design must also take
care that they could be applied at the end of a product design cycle. These enclosures
should not affect the electrical performances and sub system functionality at ground
and at onboard. The shielding performance also need to be brought out for frequency
range up to 1GHz with respect to the material thickness.
Gigabit Interfaces for Spacecraft data flow (SAC)
Next generation payloads will have a suite of cameras and measurement systems. The
capability to cater to more than 50 million pixels aggregate for processing, formatting,
storage and distribution prior to near real time compressed data transmission calls for
Gigabit interfaces to handle Terabyte data volumes. This has to be handled by three
major methods, (a) Gigabit physical data interfaces between FPGA, memory, data
serializer and lane drivers, (b) high end FPGAs to meet throughput and capability, (c)
design of high bandwidth PCB traces and characterization of transmission cables, (4)
reliable data interface protocol.
New components have been identified to provide low jitter clocks, GTY interface for >
D4.13
1Gbps data interface and matched connectors to meet SI. New in-house protocols based
on SpaceFibre which is compliant to ECSS-E-ST-50-11C for high speed serial data transfer
between subsystems is being developed. This complex firmware will offer virtual channel
buffer controller and flow control, integrated Quality of Service (QOS) based on priority,
bandwidth reservation and scheduling for each channel, optional data scrambling,
Control word generation and framing of the data packets, broadcast messages and Flow
Control Token(FCTs), Generation and acquisition of broadcast messages, interleaving
data, broadcast, Idle frames and FCTs based on precedence to generate a data stream
along with Fault Detection Isolation and Recovery(FDIR) logic. This will push the serial
link speed to greater than 6.25 Gbps.
144

--- Page 159 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Smart and efficient payloads with AI/ML (SAC)
The traditional method in remote sensing is to transmit all the pixels to ground for
offline post image processing. This consumes satellite resources in terms of bandwidth,
complexity size and weight. A more efficient way is to define imaging areas in real time
on-board and transmit useful data as demanded by users. This can be could-free imaging
zones, class segmented objects like fire zones, or contextual binary data like quantitative
presence or absence of user defined features.
D4.14
Artificial learning algorithms (AI) using Deep Neural Networks are used to train a suite
of models for various features, multi-classification and contextual data with coordinates.
These models, when implemented in FPGA based SoC ena ble control of on-board
imaging, reduce bandwidth by data volume reduction and significantly aid the user by
faster turnaround time. This research work envisages development of vast database,
training, development intelligent framework and work-flow for FPGA porting, elaborate
lab testing of real camera with real/ synthetic images.
Neuromorphic computing-Low complexity Artificial Intelligence (SAC)
Present CNN network architectures are computationally intensive and consume high
power compared to human brain. The human brain works on change detection and
ends spikes of information. The Neuromorphic computing mimics the human brain more
closely and is based on spiking neural network (SNN). This reduces the computational
D4.15 and power requirements significantly. Our goal is to deploy this SNN model inside FPGA
and develop end to end system for feature detection, tracking application, etc. An
intelligent flow based on Brainchip Akida is being developed. These involve training,
quantizing, fine-tuning with Quantization Aware Training (QAT), and converting a
model into a hardware-optimized format and performance evaluation to finally infer
from images.
D5 Sub Area EO sensor System AIT and Performance Characterization (SAC)
Design and development of smart test setups (SAC)
Test setups help in simulating spacecraft mainframe interfaces, control and command
of the sensor, and data acquisition for performance evaluation. Currently, test setups
are custom developed for each EO sensor considering its interface, functional and
D5.1 operational requirements. However, in view of the upcoming demand for variety of EO
sensors, there is a potential scope of research and development for smart test setups for
EO sensor testing. The smart setups are easily reconfigurable to cater to variety of sensors,
they have fault tolerant designs, and are self-calibrating to enable faster turnaround
time and ensure precision measurements of EO sensor performance parameters.
145

--- Page 160 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
EMI analysis and mitigation techniques (SAC)
During AIT, various electronics subsystems, test setups and associated harness assemblies
exhibit complex interplay and results in a complex EMI environment. This causes various
random and fixed pattern noises in the EO sensor data, which can significantly impact
radiometric quality of the imaging sensor. Hence, it is very important to identify the
potential noise sources and develop suitable mitigation techniques. This offers a research
D5.2
opportunity for design and development of EMI analysis tool, which accounts for various
noise sources in the sensor chain including electronics component level noise, crosstalk,
signal coupling effects, ground noise coupling, engineering noise coupling, etc. and
helps to analyse complex EMI scenario, identify the noise sources and help in developing
suitable mitigation techniques. Available COTS software modules can be suitably used
in the proposed analysis tool.
Development of new methods for EO sensor performance evaluation (SAC)
SNR and MTF are two key performance parameters that are used as performance markers
for comparative studies. Many methods exist for performance evaluation in terms of MTF
and SNR, however, considering the stringent requirements of EO sensor performance
D5.3
in upcoming future missions, many new methods are required to be developed. This
offers significant research opportunity in this field. We need to develop efficient, simple
and robust methods for SNR and MTF measurements. Also, study shall identify new
performance markers and develop suitable methods for its implementations.
Thermal analysis model of harness assemblies (SAC)
Thermal analysis of EO sensors and spacecraft systems are carried out to evolve suitable
thermal design and implementation approaches. Generally, thermal analysis of all
electronics subsystems are carried out to evolve suitable thermal implementation
D5.4 scheme. However, thermal modelling and analysis of harness assemblies are generally
ignored, although they are passive dissipating element in every spacecraft system.
Thermal modelling of harness assemblies is very critical as it helps derive rerating
specifications, avoid potential arching conditions, helps in improving performance of
thermal control system.
Design and development of machine/deep learning methods for payload test data
analysis (SAC)
Large amount of data is acquired during ground testing of EO sensors. These data sets
help in analysing EO sensor performance under various operating and environmental
D5.5
conditions. However, analysing huge data sets to bring out minute but potential
performance degradations is very difficult with traditional approaches. There is an
opportunity to develop machine learning techniques to analyse large amount of data
acquired for various EO sensors.
146

--- Page 161 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Machine Learning Techniques for Fault Diagnosis using TM data (SAC)
Complex EO sensors employ large number of interconnected subsystems to perform
imaging task. The performance of all subsystems are monitored through the large
number of telemetry (TM) channels such as voltage, current, temperature, timing
D5.6 information, configuration details etc. TM data is acquired during ground testing and
also during in-orbit phases resulting in huge amount of TM data. These TM parameters
allow designers to monitor the health of the sensor. Machine learning techniques can be
developed to analyse the large amount of TM data to observe even subtle performance
deviations that can help in diagnosing the faults in the operations of EO sensors.
Development of harness embedded panels for plug and play AIT (SAC)
Interconnection harness constitute an integral and important part of the EO sensor
and satellite system. Various electro-mechanical constraints in implementing the
harness interconnection calls for significant efforts in the design and development of
EO sensors. Literature survey shows innovative concept of harness embedded panels,
which significantly helps in saving precious volume on resource constrained satellite
D5.7
systems. We envisage to develop such harness embedded panels for Indian remote
sensing sensors. In this arrangement harness is run within the panel thickness and
connectors are available on top and bottom surface of the panel as end points for
package interconnection. The proposed research work involves exploring innovative
design of harness embedded panels, structural analysis, usage of smart materials and
proto-type development, etc.
Development of efficient algorithm for image reconstruction for compressive
imaging sensor (SAC)
Compressive imaging (Optical domain compression) is an emerging field that allows
design and development of single pixel camera systems for imaging. Significant efforts
have been reported in the literature for development of single pixel camera systems
as an alternative to current commercial cameras. However, not much study has been
D5.8
carried out in exploring the feasibility of developing a spaceborne imaging system
architecture based on optical domain compression. Currently, we are working on a
single pixel camera architecture for spaceborne applications. The research opportunities
exist in development of efficient algorithm for image reconstruction using the images
acquired by a compressive imaging sensor and carry out extensive bench marking
against available methods.
Development of robust image quality metric and suitable methods for its estimation
using in-orbit images (SAC)
D5.9 In-orbit image quality evaluation of EO sensors is a continuous evolving research field.
This research work envisages development of a robust image quality metrics and suitable
methods for its estimation from in-orbit images.
147

--- Page 162 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Development of methods for accurate estimation of SNR and MTF from in-orbit
images (SAC)
EO sensors undergo extensive ground testing during development phase. However,
post launch performance deviations are generally observed due to various instrument
effects due to launch loads and orbital environmental conditions. On-board and vicarious
D5.10
calibration methods are employed to assess the in-orbit SNR and MTF performance of EO
sensors. However, the achieved accuracies in deriving performance parameters always
suffer from limitations either from measurements or the methods itself. The proposed
research work will first study the available methods and suggest new approaches for
accurate estimation of these performance parameters.
Development of techniques for quantitative estimation of MTF contributions from
various elements in the EO imaging sensor chain (SAC)
In-orbit images generally suffer from MTF degradations due to instrument behaviour
in the orbital conditions, platform vibrations and jitter, and atmospheric conditions.
Extensive characterization is carried out in laboratory using standard targets and also
D5.11 in-orbit using stellar and various calibration targets. It is important to quantitatively
ascertain MTF contribution from each elements of the imaging instrument to understand
anomalous behaviour (if any) of one or more elements using the laboratory data and
in-orbit images. This research work envisages development of methods/techniques to
quantitatively measure/derive MTF contribution from each element in the EO sensor
chain. Also, extensive validation studies to be performed using available EO sensor data.
Design, development and characterization of Spacefiber interface-based data
transmission board (SAC)
Spacefiber interface is an emerging technology for transferring huge amount of data
running up to 40 Gbps and can have multiple channels for increasing the data Tx rates.
D5.12
The interface protocol is based on Spacewire. The Spacefiber protocol has wires or fibres
as physical layer for data transmission. This research work envisages comprehensive
study of Spacefiber interface, design and development of a bread-board functional
model and extensive characterization of the developed data transmission board.
D6 Sub Area Ground Checkout Systems for EO Payload Testing (SAC)
Computer based Multichannel High Speed Digital Data Acquisition System (SAC)
High Resolution EO cameras generate high speed data (of the order few Gbps). Evaluation
of these cameras during various phases of testing, calls for design & development of
High Speed Digital Data Acquisition System. Data Acquisition System receives incoming
D6.1
digital data from payload and transfers it to the computer. Data Acquisition System
comprises of Data Formatter, Data Acquisition Modules installed in the computer and
Data Acquisition Application. Data Formatter receives the digital data from payload over
multiple chains with required electrical interface (LVDS, serializer/deserializer (SERDES)),
148

--- Page 163 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
formats it and transfers packed data to Data Acquisition Modules. Acquisition application
acquires data from Data Acquisition Modules.
Out of different options for transferring the high speed data to computer, Camera link
interface based transfer is one suitable option. Camera link interface supports high data
transmission rates (2.04 Gbps for BASE mode, 5.44 Gbps for FULL mode & even higher
for extended FULL mode configuration) & can be used to transfer very high speed data
from Data Formatter to computer. Camera link’s transmission method requires fewer
conductors to transfer data. Hence it reduces the hardware components, interconnecting
cables and simplify the Data Acquisition System configuration.
Design & development of High Speed Data Acquisition System which involves Data
formatter (Data Input – Multi channel, SerDes interface) along with the Data Acquisition
Application can be taken up for data transfer rate upto 4.0 Gbps using camera link i/f
in-house which will be very useful during the testing of High Resolution EO cameras.
Comprehensive Automation of Test Benches (SAC)
Automation of Spectral Response Measurement (SRM) test bench using a Bentham
mono-chromator has been very successful and because of the same, the spectral
characterization for all payloads works smoothly and effortlessly.
Complexity of the payloads have increased which demands more and more testing
and that too repeatedly in different conditions. The 1553 bus based TC and TM systems
simplify the tasks and have been implemented and are successfully working. Integrated
testing becomes a laborious process when carried out by the test engineers and has
chances of errors.
A scheme is proposed which has a generic architecture to combine instrumentation, data
acquisition, parametric evaluation and a final output generation. The 1553 bus based
instrumentation provides both the TC and TM functions. Tele-commands issued can be
D6.2 verified thru the telemetry for the confirmation. Synchronized data acquisition request
can be made, followed by data processing to compute a set of parameters. This process
is repeated for all modes of operations of the payload under a given test condition. At
the end of execution of all operations, post-processing can be carried out over the data-
set. Such instructions can be combined as a macro and executed as and when required.
For Microsat-2A (LWIR and MIR) payload calibration, there was a requirement to acquire
and record the data of all seven exposures for different temperature settings ranging
from 180K to 340K. To cater to this requirement, automation feature was developed
for payload commanding to change the exposure, acquire and record the data and
generate the results simultaneously. With the automation, the task could be completed
with about a factor of three improvements in timings as compared to manual task.
This shall be an in-house development with the participation of focal persons from
integration team, software and instrumentation developer for one test case project.
149

--- Page 164 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Knowledgebase Creation and Information Extraction (SAC)
A huge database of information is available for all E/O payloads developed so far by
SEDA. This information contains automatically archived test results, TM data, raw data,
logs and manually uploaded documents. The information is structured at sub-system
level and project level under categories such as Results, Issues, Discussions and Solutions.
This will provide contents for to create a knowledge base for future generation projects.
D6.3
An interface on top of this, using Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques can
be developed. This interface shall accept the queries in human-understandable natural
language and provide answers by processing the information.
Academia has subjects related to Information Retrieval, Data Mining and alike under
broad topic of Artificial Intelligence. Students from academia can be involved in the
projects.
Development of learning algorithm for fault identification and recovery of EO
payload by analyzing the video data, telemetry and commanding sequences (SAC)
Electro Optical camera/payload consists of multiple subsystems i.e. Detector, Optics,
Camera electronics and mechanical subsystems. To meet the performance specifications,
it is required that all these subsystems operate to their best potential. During the course
of integration and calibration of subsystems, lot of payload calibration data and payload
telemetry is generated in response to the commanding sequences given to the payload.
D6.4
During this phase of payload integration, problems are observed which can be due to
multiple reasons like faulty commanding sequence, improper cabling or faulty behavior
of any subsystem. To diagnose these problems at the earliest, a learning algorithm
needs to be developed which can continuously analyze the video data, telemetry and
commanding sequences given to the payload and build a model of the payload over
time. This algorithm will not only help during the payload integration phase but also
during satellite integration and in-orbit operations of payload.
E Area Microwave Remote Sensors (SAC)
E1 Sub Area Microwave Frequency Generation and Receiver Technology (SAC)
Brief Overview of the research done in SAC for the realization of frequency sources and
receivers for various microwave remote sensing payloads is as follows.
E1.1
MMIC details PLL based Synthesiser up Ku band
150

--- Page 165 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
For realization various multifunctional MMICs have been designed upto W band
namely Low Noise Amplifier, True Time Delay Shifter, Digital Attenuator, Digital Phase
Shifter, Sub-Harmonic Mixer, Voltage Controlled Oscillator, Multi Throw Switches,
High Power Protection Switch, Multipliers, Driver Amplifier, Multifunction Core
Chips which has been successfully utilized for the development of various systems.
SAC has developed frequency generators upto mmWave frequency either directly or
indirectly through Phase Locked Loop (PLL). There is persistent effort to deliver higher
performance, higher functionality, smaller size, lower power consumption designs based
on latest technologies. The photograph of one such frequency generator system based
on PLL technology upto Ku band has been developed successfully and appears below.
Development of Rydberg Atom Based Electric Field Sensors (SAC)
A highly tunable, self-calibrated atomic sensors based on Rydberg atoms offer ground-
breaking advancement in the microwave field sensing and quantum technologies.
As atoms act as the basic sensing unit, the detection frequency can be easily tuned
without further change in hardware. The system is self-calibrated in nature, owing to
the invariability of atomic parameters. As these sensors use atoms to measure the filed
E1.2
amplitude, they barely distort the impinging field.
Atomic excitation to Rydberg state is achieved out by two highly stable and counter
propagating lasers namely the probe and control laser. The frequency tunability is
achieved by varying the control laser parameters. This research work deals in the
development of highly tunable self-calibrated atomic sensors along with the necessary
opto-mechanical components.
Design and Development of SiGe Based PLL-Frequency Synthesizers (SAC)
Bi-CMOS SiGe based phase lock loops (PLL) can play a critical role in generation of highly
stable (both long and short-term stability) and widely tunable frequency generation
blocks. It consists of an integrated VCO, programmable or fixed frequency divider, phase
frequency detector (PFD) and the loop filter.
The PFD must have dead zone of less than 300ps with an operating frequency up-to
E1.3
200 MHz A differential charge pump along with the external loop filter provides the
VCO control voltage. A multi capacitor bank based VCO enhances the Bandwidth of
operation. The output frequency is dependent on the input reference frequency and
the division ratio, a programmable divider helps in varying the operating frequency.
This research work deals with the design and development of all the sub-circuits and its
integration necessary for PLL based frequency synthesizer up-to 100GHz.
151

--- Page 166 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Design & Development of multifunctional mm-wave/sub-mm wave MMICs (SAC)
This research area involves design and development of multi-functional mm-wave/
sub-mm wave MMICs viz. low noise amplifiers, mixers, medium power amplifiers etc.
E1.4
using technology having InGaAs/ InAIAs hetero-structures with high Indium content/
InP. The developed MMICs will be used in receivers for climatic study, weather forecasting
and astronomical applications.
Schottky Barrier Diode (SBD) based sub-mm wave receiver front-ends (SAC)
This research area caters to design & development of sub-mm wave SBD-based receivers
for inter-planetary exploration missions. Receiver front end can either be mixer with IF
E1.5
LNA or RF LNA followed by mixer and IF LNA, depending on availability of RF LNAs at
such high frequencies. Sub-harmonic mixer topology is preferred owing to difficulties in
generation of high-power LO signals at high fundamental frequencies.
SIS-tunnel junctions based sub-mm wave/terahertz receiver front-ends (SAC)
The superconductor–insulator–superconductor tunnel junction (SIS) based sub-mm
wave receivers, operating at ~ 4K temperature, can achieve state-of-the-art noise
E1.6
performance of the order of 2-5 times the quantum limit. This research work involves
design & development of cryogenically cooled (operating at ~ 4K) SIS based receiver
front-ends at sub-mm wave and terahertz frequency bands.
mm-wave Single-Chip Receiver using RFIC technology (SAC)
This research area involves design and development of miniaturized single-chip receiver
E1.7 core-chip at mm-wave frequency band using RF CMOS/ BiCMOS technology. This
will lead to considerable reduction in size, weight, and power (SWaP) which is prime
consideration for space-borne electronics.
E2 Sub Area Digital Controls, Data Acquisition, Processing (SAC)
Microwave sensor digital electronics group is responsible for design, development and
delivery of on board digital control sub-systems, on board ASICs, digital data acquisition,
E2.1 signal processing of sub-systems, near real-time SAR data processing system and ground
checkout units for various digital sub systems.
Following research areas are identified for future microwave remote sensing payloads:
Payload Control and Tracking Unit (PCTU) (SAC)
The development of a Payload Control and Tracking Unit (PCTU) involves designing a
highly reliable and efficient system to manage payload operations in space. This includes
E2.2 hardware and software integration to ensure seamless communication, control, and data
handling between the spacecraft and ground stations. Presently, PCTU is implemented
to actuate scan mirror and fine scanning mirror (FSM) to bring the optical beam into line
of sight with ground station.
152

--- Page 167 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
This proposal is for development of future PCTU which takes input of spacecraft orbital
parameters such as attitude, velocity etc. The orbital parameters can be used to predict
errors in pointing and according a closed loop tracking can be initiated to bring payload
in line of sight with accuracy of better than 10urad. These orbital parameters will also be
used for computation of point ahead angles and point ahead mirror must be actuated
in closed loop to align optical transmitter.
Time to Digital Converter (TDC) with 10ps accuracy(SAC)
Time-to-Digital Converters (TDCs) are used for high-precision event time stamping.
Currently, TDCs are implemented using FPGA carry chain delay lines, but they suffer
from inaccuracies due to routing variations within the FPGA fabric. Various calibration
techniques can be applied to enhance precision. Additionally, TDCs are highly sensitive
to temperature fluctuations, making temperature compensation techniques essential
for ensuring stable performance and improved accuracy. This proposal is for the design
and characterization of TDC in FPGA/ASIC for 10ps accuracy. Following activities are
E2.3
required for this:
• Designing of Time to Digital Converter (TDC) using carry chain/buffers. Precise routing
between inter element for minimal variation of sub clock period.
• Calibration of TDC through standard source with accuracy of one order better than
requirement.
• Implementation of thermal compensation techniques for correcting response over
temperature. Characterization of TDC over temperature for 10ps accuracy.
System on Chip with RISC-V processor and embedded FPGA for Space Application
(SAC)
This proposal focuses on the development of a reconfigurable fabric core (eFPGA) and
its integration with a RISC-V microprocessor. The eFPGA will comprise an array of basic
logic units (LUTs, flip-flops, etc.), a routing matrix, a custom DSP block, and onboard
digital systems designed for interplanetary and small satellite missions, which require
miniaturization, energy efficiency, flexibility, and sufficient computing resources.
E2.4
A System-on-Chip (SoC) integrating a microprocessor soft core and an embedded
FPGA (eFPGA) offers an optimal solution for applications demanding low power and
high flexibility. The eFPGA core will be developed as a soft RTL core and interfaced with
the microprocessor via the AHB/AXI bus. Users will have the ability to configure various
parameters, including array size, I/O count, and memory size.
Additionally, the bitstream generation flow for the eFPGA core will be designed to
be compatible with available open-source synthesis and place-and-route (P&R) tools.
153

--- Page 168 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
To ensure reliability in space environments, the eFPGA will incorporate fault-tolerant
features, making it suitable for radiation-prone applications. The primary target
application for this eFPGA is the implementation of control and signal processing
functions for microwave remote sensing payloads.
Design and Development of Matched Filter Correlator ASIC (SAC)
A Digital Correlator ASIC for Microwave SAR is a high-performance, low-power integrated
circuit designed to process received radar echoes efficiently. SAR systems require real-
time signal correlation to reconstruct high-resolution images of targets from microwave
signals. The digital correlator ASIC accelerates this process by implementing parallel
cross-correlation computations, reducing computational load on general-purpose
processors while improving speed and power efficiency. The research work involves
various aspects of design and development:
• Design and development of high-speed, parallel-processing correlator architecture
E2.5
for efficient SAR signal processing.
• Implementation of low-latency data streaming and optimized memory management
for continuous radar data processing.
• Development of optimize correlation algorithms for range/Doppler processing and
pulse compression.
• Testing & Validation of design by post-silicon testing with real microwave SAR data to
validate performance, perform radiation hardness testing for spaceborne applications
of ASIC and thermal analysis for high-power environments and design optimize for
reliability, ensuring minimal signal distortion and noise impact.
Design and Development of Digital Spectrometer ASIC (SAC)
The Design and Development of a Digital Spectrometer ASIC focuses on creating a high-
performance, low-power integrated circuit for real-time spectral analysis in applications
such as radio astronomy, remote sensing, and communications. The research involves
designing an optimized Fast Fourier Transform (FFT)-based architecture for spectral
decomposition, incorporating a 6-bit high speed ADC (2 to 4 GHz Instantaneous
bandwidth) along with wide analog input bandwidth support (8 to 10 GHz), a
programmable Voltage Gain Amplifier (VGA), a Phase Locked Loop (PLL) based frequency
synthesizer, a demultiplexer, a poly-phase filter bank, a programmable windowing
E2.6
function, a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) core, a frequency-domain data analysis block, a
programmable time accumulator of frequency-domain voltage or power, a data readout
block, a Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) for the ASIC’s programming and low-speed
data interchange, a low-voltage differential signal (LVDS) interface for high-speed data
transfer, a digital control unit and ASIC testing features.
This research aims to develop a robust, scalable, and power-efficient spectrometer
ASIC for deployment in radio telescopes, deep-space communication, and scientific
instrumentation, contributing to advancements in spectral signal processing
technologies.
154

--- Page 169 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Scrubbing techniques for SEU mitigation and On-board Reconfiguration (SAC)
Scrubbing techniques play a critical role in mitigating Single Event Upsets (SEUs) in
spaceborne and aerospace electronics, where radiation-induced bit flips can compromise
system reliability. SEU mitigation is achieved through periodic configuration memory
scrubbing, which detects and corrects errors in FPGAs and ASICs used in satellite
payloads, avionics, and deep-space missions.
The development work involves implementing error detection and correction (EDAC)
E2.7
mechanisms, such as cyclic redundancy check (CRC), Hamming codes, and Triple Modular
Redundancy (TMR), along with Partial and Dynamic Reconfiguration to ensure system
resilience. Additionally, autonomous onboard reconfiguration is being developed to
enable real-time recovery by reloading fault-free configurations stored in redundant
memory banks. The scope of this research extends to radiation-hardened FPGA
architectures, AI-driven fault prediction models, and low-power scrubbing techniques,
ensuring robust operation.
IP Core development for fault tolerant Double Data Rate 4 (DDR4) memory
controller (SAC)
IP Core development for Single Event Functional Interrupt (SEFI) mitigation for DDR4
SDRAM memory chips. This IP Core will mitigate Single Event Upsets (SEUs) and SEFI in a
radiation environment. This work involves,
E2.8
• Development of a controller that handles address mapping, read/write operations
from user and mitigates SEU and SEFI errors in background
• Design verification, synthesis and implementation targeting several FPGA platforms
like Xilinx, RTG4, NanoXplore and ASIC.
• Test the IP core in a radiation environment to estimate the correctness of the IP core.
Design and Development of Generic RADAR Waveform Synthesis ASIC (SAC)
A Generic RADAR Waveform Synthesis ASIC is a specialized integrated circuit required to
generate and manipulate diverse radar waveforms in real time. It is crucial for modern
radar systems, including synthetic aperture radar (SAR), phased array radar, Radar
Altimeter and Ground penetrating radar (GPR) application.
This capability is achieved by a high sampling data converter (DAC) and a processor
E2.9
or FPGA to generate the required waveform for different applications (linear frequency
modulated signal (LFM) for SAR, Frequency Modulated Continuous Wav signal
(FMCW) for altimeter and Step Frequency Continuous Wave (SFCW) for GPR). Given
the widespread use of such devices in microwave payloads and the ongoing push for
miniaturizing digital electronics, the design and development of an indigenous Generic
RADAR Waveform Synthesis ASIC is proposed.
155

--- Page 170 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
The proposed work includes,
• Design and development of a high-speed dual-channel DAC (12-bit, 500 MSps) and
Direct Digital Synthesis (DDS), integrated onto a single chip using a 65nm CMOS
process node.
• Radiation hardened design for use in space applications.
• Integration with controller ASICs to provide a truly single chip solution for a wide
range of RADAR applications.
This will reduce the SWaP (Size, Weight, and Power) requirements and miniaturize the
electronics and free up processing resources of the central controller of the digital
subsystems.
Design and Development of Telemetry ASIC (SAC)
Telemetry ASIC is a Mixed signal ASIC. It can receive analog (thermistor) and digital
telemetry signals and can send them over serial link. It will have RS422/SPI interface
along with ADC, modules. The objective of the proposal is to develop a miniaturized
integrated single chip solution while presently this functionality is achieved with discrete
E2.10 components like FPGA, ADC, Mux etc.
The proposed work includes, Radiation hardened design for use in space applications,
where digital modules will be designed using RHBD library and analog modules will be
having RHBD layout techniques. It will be fabricated using 180nm CMOS process and the
design should be modular, addressable and scalable design, based on no. of TM channel,
multiple devices can be used.
Signal Processing algorithms for RADAR Velocity meter (SAC)
This research focuses on developing and optimizing signal processing algorithms for
Pulse Doppler RADAR-based velocity meter for Doppler shift estimation, range Doppler
processing and clutter suppression to accurately measure object velocity. Key techniques
E2.11 such as FFT, kalman filtering, wavelet Transform and Machine learning based motion
estimation will be explored for improved accuracy and noise reduction. The following
research areas are identified,
• Designing algorithms and scheme for precise measurement technique
• Real time unambiguous velocity estimation from a Doppler radar
NVMe IP for FPGA (SAC)
This IP will be useful for design and development of a digital design involving NVMe
based memories for high-speed data recording and playback. NVMe protocol-based
IP is need to be employed to maintain data integrity and reliable operation of data
E2.12
processing and storage. The main aim of the research would be to develop an efficient
controller logic for NVMe protocol supported memories. Also, the research must focus
on real time optimal implementation EDAC algorithm and efficient low overhead file
system amenable for implementation on FPGA/ASIC.
156

--- Page 171 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Digital ASIC for Radar Altimeter Processor (SAC)
MRSA/SAC has developed a RADAR altimeter based on FMCW technique. Presently
design and development of Pulsed based Radar Altimeter is under progress in MRSA/
E2.13
SAC. These systems will be used in precise altitude and velocity measurements. The
proposed work includes, Turnkey development of digital ASIC for Radar Altimeter
Processor and MMCM development for Radar Altimeter System.
Signal Processing Platform for Terrain Relative Navigation and Hazard Detection
and Avoidance (HDA) applications (SAC)
Future generation of landing craft will autonomously map the surface, using vision,
microwave, and/or laser-based sensors, during the terminal phase of powered descent
and then, in real-time, choose and divert to a safe landing site in order to avoid hazards
using Hazard Detection and Avoidance techniques. This will also require accurate
position and velocity data during descent phase in order to ensure safe soft landing at
E2.14
the pre-designated sites. Following are the research areas
• Processing algorithms (for feature identification, feature matching, HDA, Position
estimation, velocity estimation, image generation etc.) for real time microwave/
optical based imaging sensors.
• Algorithms for “pose estimation” for mission targeted to small bodies like asteroids.
• Algorithms for “Natural Feature Tracking”.
• Applications of AI and ML in Position Localization and Hazard Avoidance.
On-board SAR Processor ASIC (SAC)
The aim of On-board SAR Processor (OBSP) RH Digital ASIC is to acquire SAR raw data and
generate well-focused images as a final output. It will have LVDS interface with the master
E2.15 FPGA. The objective of the proposal is to develop a low power, miniaturized solution
which will comprise of major signal and image processing techniques to generate image
from the raw data. Moreover, design of OBSP ASIC will be radiation hardened in nature
which will enable it to be used in future planetary missions and other space applications.
Development and Realization of GNSS Remote Sensing Signal Simulator (SAC)
In order to test GNSS RS signal reception with configurable scenarios, a GNSS (direct
signal) and GNSS-RS (reflected signal) signal generator is required with the capability
to simulate navigation messages to allow positioning, as well as simulating any user-
defined, direct and reflected path with satellite handovers. This capability to simulate
E2.16 specular and scattered reflections is required to test the Delay-Doppler map (DDM)
calculations in the GNSS RS Receiver.
The proposed work involves modelling of the direct navigation signal & and the
corresponding reflected signal, received at LEO satellite in the operational scenario of a
GNSS Remote Sensing spacecraft. The developed simulator should have the following
capabilities:
157

--- Page 172 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• GPS L1 C/A and IRNSS SPS signal generation with proper Ephemerides and Almanac
information.
• GNSS transmitting and receiving LEO satellites orbit simulation;
• Any user-defined path should be able to be uploaded, either on the Earth or in orbit,
with as much temporal resolution as necessary.
• Estimation of location of the specular reflection point and glistening zone (area where
scattered power is collected);
• Reflected surface scattering coefficient generation based on geophysical parameters
• It shall be able to model and generate both direct and reflected signals, on rough or
smooth surfaces incorporating tropospheric and ionospheric effects on both direct
and reflected signal.
• Graphical input/output user interface (GUI).
• Generation of IF/RF direct and reflected navigation signals.
E3 Sub Area Power Electronics (SAC)
Electronic Power Conditioners (EPCs) required for the various RF and Digital subsystems
of Microwave remote sensing payloads are being designed and developed in-house at
SAC. These EPCs have shown excellent performance on-board ISRO’s microwave payloads
flown so far. To mention a few, major successfully completed in-house developments are:
• Power Conditioning and Processing Unit for TR Modules of C-band SAR payload
involving HMCs and planar magnetics.
• Multi-output pulsed EPC for TR integrated modules of X-band SAR.
• EPCs for GaN based Dual-Pol Pulsed Transmitters of Chandrayaan-3 SAR.
• High power EPC for X-Band 250W GaN Solid State Power Amplifiers.
• HMC based Point of Load (POL) converters (up to 13V).
E3.1
• HMC based Controller for DC-DC converter and pulse Modulator
• 100W EPC for digital Subsystem of NISAR
• EPC for S-band TRiM (NISAR)
• EPC for RF subsystems of RISAT-2B
• Multi-output EPC for MHS payload.
Apart from above, High Voltage EPC for indigenous pulsed TWT have been demonstrated
and its qualification for space version is under advanced stage. Power ASIC design and
development activities have also been taken up and are at advanced stage. Higher
efficiency, smaller mass and volume, efficient thermal design and EMI/EMC compliance
are the major driving parameters for any space-borne EPC design.
158

--- Page 173 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Digitally controlled multi-output DC-DC Converter (SAC)
This research focuses on development of Digitally controlled energy efficient multi-
output DC-DC converter with fast transient response and MHz switching frequency.
E3.2
The work involves design, simulation, and proto-type development of highly efficient
multi-output EPC for high-speed digital circuits with FPGAs. The EPC should have
programmable output ON/OFF sequencing with fast transient response.
High frequency GaN FET based high voltage EPC for pulsed TWTA (SAC)
This proposal is for design & development of topologies and packaging aspects of High
frequency GaN FET based high voltage EPC for pulsed TWTA. The work involves study,
E3.3 simulation and comparison of various design topologies/ configurations for high voltage
EPC for multi collector pulsed TWT with Beam focus electrode for pulsed operation. The
work also involves analysis and implementation of space grade high voltage potting
materials and high voltage packaging aspects for realization in space environments.
Thick Film hybrid + HMC based EPC system (SAC)
This proposal is for design and development of the following systems,
• Thick Film hybrid + HMC based EPC with in-house developed ASIC LDOs & POLs for
E3.4
target of lower mass/volume and higher efficiency
• Thick Film hybrid + HMC based Pulsed EPC with in-house developed HMC PMC for
target of lower mass/volume and higher efficiency.
Rad hard miniaturised POL and LDO (SAC)
E3.5 This proposal is for design and development of Rad hard, efficient and very compact
high voltage (15V) POL as well LDO.
Development of software tool for design, modelling and analysis of planar power
E3.6
transformer and power inductor. (SAC)
Miniaturized circuit protection module (SAC)
This proposal is for Miniaturized circuit protection module DC-DC converters for
Aerospace applications. The protection circuit comprises of Resettable eFuse, input
E3.7
plug-in inrush current limiter and Under Voltage Lock-out (UVLO). The work involves
design, simulation, and optimization of Generic front-end protection circuit for DC-DC
converters. The final circuit may be implemented on a power ASIC or HMC.
Integrated EPC for Multiple Subsystem Stacks (SAC)
This proposal includes analysis, design and development of advanced EPCs, which can
supply power to multiple subsystem stacks with individual control of commanding and
E3.8
Over Current Protection. This work involves several challenges viz.
• Electrical circuit modelling and simulation of circuit. Supplying power to multiple
subsystems and meeting output voltage sequencing requirement of each individual.
159

--- Page 174 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• Dynamic switching load with fast transient response and converter stability.
• Selectable RF load at spacecraft through Tele-command.
• Protection of EPC in case of single/ multiple subsystem failures such that there is no
impact on remaining subsystems if one or multiple subsystems fail to which EPC is
supplying power.
• Thermal effects of subsystem failures on EPC.
F Area Signal & Image Processing & Data Product (SAC/NRSC)
Infrastructure mapping and monitoring using AI/ML techniques from Synthetic
Aperture Radar (SAR) Data (SAC)
Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) is an active microwave sensor that can take images of
targets during day as well as night and can also penetrate cloud cover. The high resolution
images acquired by SAR can be used to map and monitor various infrastructure such as
highways, airports, railway, bridges, buildings, vegetation etc. With availability of large
amount of images from past, current and future SAR missions, a software for classification
and temporal monitoring of government and non-government assets can be very useful
F1
for administrative purposes. The prime focus of this research is design and development
of AI/ML based technique for identification and classification of infrastructure in the
readily available SAR image datasets. The infrastructures thus identified can be added
to a library which can be referred by government/non-government agencies for various
planning and temporal monitoring activities. It will also enable the monitoring of the
areas for which optical images may not be available around the year due to cloud cover/
day-night issues. SAR Images from RISAT-1 / RISAT-1A(EOS-04) / RISAT-1B (EOS-09)
missions can be used for this activity.
Moving Targets identification and their parameter estimation from SAR Images
(SAC)
During Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) imaging, the sensor is flown in an Aircraft/
spacecraft, pulses are sent and the return echoes are recorded. While processing, the
range and the relative motion between sensor and target (earth) is utilized to generate
images. In SAR, the background region, called clutter, is the region of interest and it is
assumed to be stationary and SAR image focusing is done. Moving targets likes cars,
trains, etc. in the images are defocused and/or displaced and may appear as artifact
F2
in the image. Primary focus of this research is algorithm and corresponding software
development for
• Moving Target detection using state of art along track interferometry techniques
• Moving Target detection in Raw/Processed SAR datasets
• Estimation of target parameters like position and velocity
• Focusing of moving targets in SAR images
• Removal of artefacts from SAR images generated due to moving targets
160

--- Page 175 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Getting information of moving targets for SAR image will provide valuable information
in utilization of SAR images in strategic applications. Artefact removal and refocusing of
moving targets in SAR images will result in enhanced SAR image quality. Additionally, the
work will help in designing the state of the art SAR systems for moving target indication.
Passive Bi-static SAR Image Formation using GNSS Signals (SAC)
Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) are microwave sensors and have day night & all
weather imaging capability. In SAR, pulses are transmitted from Airborne/Spaceborne
platforms and return echoes are recorded. These return echoes are used to form the
high resolution SAR images using signal processing methods. Image formation, in
cases where receivers are at different platform than the transmitter, is termed as passive
bistatic SAR image formation. Globally, around the earth, many microwave systems are
working in microwave frequency range suitable for SAR image formation. Navigations
F3
systems like GPS & IRNSS, are such type of systems primarily operating in L & S Band.
Reflected signal corresponding to the signals transmitted from these systems are being
recorded in passive receiver (like GNSS-R onboard Microsat-2C, CyGNSS). These are
signals of opportunity which are highly reliable & stable and can be used for SAR image
formation as well.Design and development of techniques for SAR image formation from
GNSS signals and corresponding software implementation is the primary focus of this
research. This research has the potential to generate SAR images using low cost receiver
only systems with enormous applications.
Hyperspectral and LiDAR Data Fusion for Enhanced Remote Sensing Analysis (SAC)
Introduction:
Remote sensing technologies, such as Hyperspectral Imaging (HSI) and Light Detection
and Ranging (LiDAR), provide valuable environmental and geographical data. While HSI
offers detailed spectral information across a wide range of wavelengths, LiDAR captures
precise three-dimensional (3D) spatial data, enabling high-resolution topographic
measurements. Integrating these two datasets can significantly enhance our ability to
analyze complex environments by combining spectral, spatial, and geometric features.
F4
The research should explore and implement recent trends in machine learning and deep
learning models to achieve the hyperspectral and LiDAR fused output.
Research Objectives:
The goal of this research is to develop a robust framework for the fusion of Hyperspectral
and LiDAR data to improve object detection, land cover classification, and environmental
monitoring. The research objectives are as follows
1. To explore the potential benefits of fusing hyperspectral and LiDAR data for improved
landscape classification, particularly in vegetation and urban areas.
161

--- Page 176 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
2. To develop and assess fusion algorithms that leverage both the spectral and spatial
dimensions of these datasets.
3. To evaluate the fusion’s ability to detect and characterize environmental features
such as vegetation health, urban structures, and terrain variation.
Expected Outcomes:
The fusion of hyperspectral and LiDAR data will enable more accurate and efficient
classification of land cover types, particularly in challenging environments where
either modality alone may be insufficient. It will also enhance our understanding of
environmental changes over time, providing a powerful tool for monitoring ecosystems,
urban development, and natural disasters.
Development of Foundation Model for Satellite Images (SAC)
Introduction:
Satellite imagery plays a pivotal role in addressing global challenges such as climate
monitoring, disaster management, urban planning, and defence. However, the vast
volume and complexity of satellite data require advanced analytical tools. Foundation
models, pre-trained on large-scale datasets, have revolutionized fields like natural
language processing and computer vision. Developing a foundation model specifically
for satellite images can unlock unprecedented capabilities in automating analysis,
improving accuracy, and enabling cross-domain applications, thereby enhancing
decision-making for space organizations and stakeholders.
Objectives:
1. To design and train a foundation model tailored for satellite imagery, leveraging
large-scale datasets from diverse sources.
F5
2. To enable multi-task learning for applications like land cover classification, object
detection, and change detection.
3. To improve generalization across geographic regions, sensors, and resolutions.
4. To provide an open-source framework for fine-tuning and deployment in downstream
tasks.
Scope:
The project will focus on developing a scalable, transformer-based architecture trained
on datasets of Indian landscape from different Indian satellite (e.g., HRSAT, Cartosat,
Resourcesat, NISAR, Microsat, RISAT etc.) catering data across different modality of
optical and infrared data to SAR data, high-resolution data to coarse resolution imagery.
The model will be evaluated on benchmark tasks and real-world use cases, ensuring
adaptability to various space organization needs.
162

--- Page 177 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Methodologies:
1. Data Collection and Preprocessing: Curate a diverse dataset of satellite images with
annotations for supervised and self-supervised learning.
2. Model Design: Implement a vision transformer (ViT) or hybrid CNN-transformer
model optimized for multi-spectral and multi-temporal data.
3. Training: Utilize self-supervised learning techniques (e.g., masked autoencoding) to
pre-train the model on unlabeled data, followed by fine-tuning on specific tasks.
4. Evaluation: Benchmark performance on tasks like segmentation, classification, and
anomaly detection using standard metrics.
Possible Outcomes:
1. A robust foundation model capable of handling diverse satellite imagery tasks.
2. Reduced dependency on task-specific models, saving time and computational
resources.
3. Enhanced interoperability across datasets and sensors, enabling seamless integration
into existing workflows.
Benefits to our organizations:
The foundation model will empower our organization to automate routine analyses,
improve disaster response, monitor environmental changes, and optimize resource
allocation. It will also foster innovation by enabling researchers and developers to build
specialized applications with minimal effort. By leveraging cutting-edge AI techniques,
this project will provide a versatile tool for space organizations, driving advancements in
global sustainability, security, and scientific discovery.
Utilizing Neural Radiance Fields for Multi-View Geometry Reconstruction in
Satellite Imagery for DEM and DSM Generation (SAC)
Introduction
Digital Elevation Models (DEM) and Digital Surface Models (DSM) are crucial for
various geospatial applications, including topographic mapping, urban planning, and
environmental monitoring. Traditional methods for DEM/DSM generation, such as
photogrammetry and LiDAR, can be computationally expensive and sensitive to data
F6
quality. Additionally, photogrammetric approaches require high-quality stereo pairs
with consistent lighting conditions, while LiDAR is costly and limited by accessibility
constraints. The increasing availability of high-resolution satellite imagery presents
an opportunity to explore alternative methodologies that can leverage deep learning
techniques for enhanced 3D reconstruction.
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have demonstrated impressive results in reconstructing
3D geometry from sparse 2D images by modeling volumetric scenes with high fidelity.
163

--- Page 178 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
However, existing NeRF implementations are optimized primarily for synthetic or
ground-based images, with limited studies addressing large-scale aerial or satellite-
based reconstructions. This research aims to bridge this gap by developing a NeRF-based
framework tailored for multi-view satellite imagery, enabling accurate and scalable DEM
and DSM generation. If successful, this approach could significantly improve terrain
modeling efficiency and precision, benefiting industries such as agriculture, disaster
response, and military reconnaissance. In addition, this method has direct applications
in high resolution satellites such as HRSat and Cartosat.
Objectives
1. Investigate the feasibility of applying NeRF to reconstruct high-fidelity 3D structures
from multi-view satellite images, considering factors such as atmospheric distortions,
varying resolutions, and occlusions.
2. Develop an optimized pipeline for training NeRF on satellite datasets to generate
DEM and DSM, incorporating domain-specific modifications such as multi-scale
feature representations and geospatial constraints.
3. Compare the accuracy, resolution, and computational efficiency of NeRF-based
reconstruction with traditional photogrammetry and LiDAR-based methods to assess
its viability for large-scale applications.
4. Explore potential enhancements to NeRF, such as integrating hybrid neural
representations, incorporating auxiliary sensor data (e.g., synthetic aperture radar),
and leveraging super-resolution techniques for improved terrain detail extraction.
Expected Outcomes
1. A validated framework for leveraging NeRF in DEM and DSM generation from satellite
imagery.
2. Improved elevation models with enhanced resolution and accuracy compared to
traditional methods.
3. Insights into the applicability and limitations of NeRF in large-scale remote sensing
tasks.
Automatic Road Extraction Using High-Resolution Satellite Imagery (SAC)
Introduction:
This research focuses on developing an automatic road extraction model using high-
resolution satellite imagery and deep learning techniques. Road networks are critical
F7 for transportation, urban planning, and disaster management. However, manual road
extraction from high resolution satellite images is time-consuming and error-prone.
This study proposes a deep learning-based framework leveraging Convolutional Neural
Networks (CNNs) and Transformer-based architectures to enhance road detection
accuracy, reduce occlusions, and improve computational efficiency. The research aims
164

--- Page 179 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
to develop a robust model that generalizes across different environments and datasets,
contributing to remote sensing and geospatial analysis applications.
Research Objectives:
1. Develop an automatic road extraction model using high-resolution satellite imagery.
2. Improve segmentation accuracy using deep learning techniques.
3. Address challenges such as occlusions, varying road textures, and illumination
differences.
4. Evaluate model performance on multiple datasets for better generalization.
5. Optimize computational efficiency for real-time or near real-time applications.
Expected Outcomes:
This research aims to develop a high-accuracy road extraction model applicable to urban
planning, disaster response, and autonomous navigation, improving road segmentation
in complex environments.
Satellite Data Reception & Ingest Systems (NRSC)
1. Realization of Low Noise Amplifiers for Satellite Data Reception Ground Stations
(NRSC)
A Low Noise Amplifier (LNA) is an essential component in radio frequency (RF) and
microwave communication systems. It is designed to amplify weak signals while
introducing minimal noise, improving the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in a system. In
the receive chain, the first amplifier after the antenna contributes the most to the
system noise figure. RF low-noise amplifiers (RF LNAs) are designed to increase the
desired RF signal amplitude without adding distortion or noise.
2. Design and realization of Ka band, Q band Components (NRSC)
The Ka band (25.5 -27.0 GHz), Q band (33 GHz to 42) GHz are segments of the microwave
frequency spectrum used in radar, Satellite Communications and scientific research.
F8
RF components like Oscillators & Signal Sources, Power Amplifiers (PAs), Mixers &
Frequency Converters, Filters & Duplexers, Waveguides & Transmission Lines, Phase
Shifters & Attenuators, Switches & Circulators operated in the respective frequency
range shall be realized to achieve low loss, high gain, and efficient signal processing.
Each component is designed with specific materials, structures, and circuit techniques
to optimize performance for a given RF application. These active and passive RF
components are utilized for development of RF systems (viz. Up-converters, down-
converters, frequency translators, etc.) in ground stations for data reception.
3. Design and development of Modular / Compact Block Up/ Down Converters for
Ka & Q bands (NRSC)
The requirement is for the design of compact Block Up/Down Converters with good
phase noise synthesizers using MMIC based surface mount components. They can
165

--- Page 180 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
be digitally tuned for different frequencies required. The target specification for Ka-
band converters is to translate the input frequency range from 25.5 to 27.0 GHz to an
output range of 2400 +/- 750 MHz and vice versa. For the Q band Converters, the
input frequency range of 37.5 - 41.0 GHz shall be converted to an output range and
vice versa suitable to the Receivers band width processing capability.
4. Design, Development and Demonstration of Modular Frequency Synthesizers
(NRSC)
Frequency Synthesizers shall be designed to provide Local Oscillator signal for up/
down conversion of received RF signals in S, X and Ka band. These synthesizers shall
be developed with good phase noise and higher output power with the provision for
tuning to any frequency in the specified range. The frequency stability shall be better
than 1ppm.
5. Design and development of IF Matrix operating at (2.0 – 3.0 GHz) using SMD
Technology or Pin Diode Switches (NRSC)
Solid State switches and Pin diode switches realized with MEM technology and
having isolation greater than 60 dB with programmable gain in the path of the “Non
– Blocking” IF Matrix can be designed and developed for ground station applications.
6. 3D Modelling, Structural Analysis & Design of X-Y Tracking Pedestal (NRSC)
3D Modelling, Structural analysis & design of X-Y tracking pedestal suitable for 7.5M
diameter parabolic reflector with Cassegrain feed arrangement (for both aluminum
and Carbon fibre material) with full hemispherical coverage. The antenna must track
LEO satellites from 300 KM orbit onwards to receive data in X band from 8.0 to 8.4 GHz
frequency with an operating wind condition up to 60 KMPH and wind gust up to 80
KMPH.
7. Design of Optical Modem for an Optical Ground Station (NRSC)
An Optical Modem for an Optical Ground Station (OGS) is a specialized subsystem that
enables high-speed optical data transmission between ground stations and satellites
or ground-to-ground free-space optical (FSO) links. These modems are essential for
next-generation laser communication (Lasercom), providing higher bandwidth and
lower latency than traditional RF-based systems. Key Components of an Optical
Modem include Optical Transmitter, Optical Receiver, Modulator/Demodulator,
Photodetector, Optical Fiber Interface, Error Correction & Signal Processing catering
to the specifications of Transmission Speed (1 Gbps to 400 Gbps ) , Modulation Format
(NRZ, QAM, PSK,OFDM) and error correction capabilities.
166

--- Page 181 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
8. Study of suitable Materials / Design Approach and Innovative Manufacturing
Methodology for large CFRP Reflectors for Future Tri axis-Tri band Ground
Station Antenna Systems (NRSC)
When the ground station antenna is to be designed for data reception in higher
frequencies. The selection of materials for reflectors plays a major role. The material
must be such that the surface profile is not affected under any weather conditions
while in operation, as any change in surface profile accuracy affects the overall gain
of the antenna system. The surface profile accuracy is affected by thermal gradient
in conventional aluminum reflectors. As an alternative to this it is proposed to use
composite material such as CFRP for making the antenna reflectors that offer high
Specific strength, high specific weight and low coefficient of thermal expansion
without any compromise on RF properties.
9. Study of suitable Materials / Design Approach and Innovative Manufacturing
Methodology for large CFRP Reflectors for Future Tri axis-Tri band Ground
Station Antenna Systems (NRSC)
When the ground station antenna is to be designed for data reception in higher
frequencies. The selection of materials for reflectors plays a major role. The material
must be such that the surface profile is not affected under any weather conditions
while in operation, as any change in surface profile accuracy affects the overall gain
of the antenna system. The surface profile accuracy is affected by thermal gradient
in conventional aluminum reflectors. As an alternative to this it is proposed to use
composite material such as CFRP for making the antenna reflectors that offer high
Specific strength, high specific weight and low coefficient of thermal expansion
without any compromise on RF properties.
Electronics & Microelectronics Design, Fabrication & Testing
G Area
Technologies (SAC/URSC)
G1 Sub Area Research areas in Quantum Device Design and Fabrication (SAC)
Single & Entangled Photon Sources (SAC)
For the implementation of Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) using single or entangled
photon based protocols, hardware required is the single or entangled photon source.
Currently the QKD demonstration is carried out using the photon sources made of
Spontaneous Photon Down Conversion (SPDC). But, these sources are probabilistic
G1.1 sources and Quantum Key rate is limited by their generation rate. Faster key generation
requires the Bright sources of Single or Entangled photons. QD based sources are capable
of generating both single and entangled photons. They are also deterministic in nature
and brightness is also high. But, the only drawback of low temperature operation.
Two level systems (QDs, 2D materials, Defect centers in high bandgap materials) are
capable of generating single or entangled photon sources, but the wavelength and
167

--- Page 182 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
operating temperature depends on the choice of materials. Design and fabrication
of QD based quantum photon sources is very challenging and in campus we have the
ongoing activity on design and fabrication of quantum sources working at 800 nm &
1550 nm. Proposals (both Design and Fabrication aspects) are invited to work on Bright
Quantum Sources using any of the materials, but high temperature operated systems
are preferred.
Single Photon Avalanche Diodes (SAC)
Implementation of Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) also requires the Single Photon
Detectors. Currently Superconducting Nanowire Single Photon Detectors (SNSPD) are
the most efficient for detection at 800 & 1550 nm wavelengths. They are having good
Photon Detection Efficiency and high speed detection, but their operating temperature
is 4K or blow. Also, Semiconductor based Single Photon Detectors Namely Single
G1.2 Photon Avalanche Diodes (SPAD) are pursued for near room temperature operation.
Silicon based SPADs are in operation near 800 nm and Ingas based SPADs are operated
for 1550nm. But, SPAD performance is not as that of SNSPD, but any improvement in
performance is an advantage. Now a day, 2D materials based single photon Detectors
are also paving the way due to their high detection efficiency and rate. Proposals are
invited for development of highly efficient Single Photon Detectors using 2D materials,
any other materials or ways to improve the efficiency of existing technologies.
Research areas in Active and Passive Device and Component
G2 Sub Area
Technologies (SAC)
Development of re-grown Ohmic-contact for RF GaN HEMT (SAC)
AlGaN/GaN on SiC based HEMTs offer very high power densities at microwave and mm-
wave frequencies. Ohmic contact resistance is one of the most important metrics for
evaluating the HEMTs suitability for high power, high frequency applications. Ohmic
contact formation via MOCVD “regrowth” of an n+ GaN layer to side contact to the 2DEG
is a promising approach to reducing the contact resistance of GaN heterostructures.
G2.1
Low Ohmic contact resistances on the order of tenths of Ohms/mm can be reproducibly
achieved using this technique.
Proposals are invited for the development of reproducible ohmic contact regrowth
technique for SAC identified GaN heterostructures. The fabricated samples shall be jointly
evaluated by the PI and SAC engineers and detailed process recipe for the developed
process shall serve as the deliverable of the project.
Pospieszalski and Pucel type noise model development for GaN HEMT (SAC)
G2.2 Unlike GaAs LNAs, which require RF limiters or other protective circuitry to handle high-
power signals degrading the overall noise figure, GaN HEMTs are sufficiently robust to
168

--- Page 183 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
endure high power surges without the need for such protective measures, resulting in
a lower noise figure and improved signal integrity. The development of noise models
for GaN HEMTs is essential for accurately predicting device performance by simulations.
We invite proposals for the development of Pospieszalski and Pucel-type noise models
tailored to SAC GaN HEMT devices. The scope of the work includes:
1. Development of Pospieszalski and Pucel type noise model on SAC devices.
2. Study of bias dependence of noise model parameters on these models.
3. Integration of noise model with ADS software using Verilog-A code.
4. Design of 2 stage LNA using developed model at X band.
5. Subsequent validation and model refinement using characterization.
Nonlinear HEMT model for AlGaN/GaN switch applications (SAC)
GaN HEMTs are a promising technology for TR module development due to their ability
to integrate various components—such as LNAs, switches, PAs, DAs, and DPS—on the
same wafer. GaN-based switches can handle exceptionally high power levels, making
them ideal for demanding applications. In switch design, a cold FET model (Vds = 0 V)
is typically used. To ensure accuracy, the model must precisely capture voltage swings
at both the gate and drain while maintaining continuity in current and its derivative.
Additionally, it should accurately predict breakdown behavior, which is crucial for
G2.3 determining the input power level of the switch.
Proposals are invited for Nonlinear HEMT model development for AlGaN/GaN switch
application.
The scope of work should include
1. Development of nonlinear HEMT model for AlGaN/GaN switch application.
2. Integration of model with ADS software using verilog code.
3. Design of X band high power switch (1 dB compression point better than 40 dBm)
4. Measurement verification of switch and further improvement in models if required.
Simulators for SAW filter design (SAC)
Surface Acoustic Wave (SAW) filters provide efficient RF filtering in a compact footprint,
in the frequency range of 10 MHz to 3 GHz. In spite of the prevalence of these devices in
modern communication equipment, general purpose design tools for the simulation of
G2.4 these filters are non-existent.
The scope of the proposed research work, hence, shall be to develop accurate simulation
tools for the prediction of SAW filter performance. Target specifications and fabrication
support shall be provided by SAC. The accuracy of the developed tools shall be checked
against the measured performance of fabricated filters.
169

--- Page 184 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Research areas in Microelectronic Interconnects and Packaging
G3 Sub Area
(SAC)
Development of micro-via formation, micro-via filling and wafer planarization
processes for Wafer Level Packaging (SAC)
Wafer level packaging (WLP) of high frequency devices/circuits offers immense
miniaturization and improved performance in terms of reduced parasitics. The process
uses a bonded cover wafer to hermetically seal the devices/circuits, at the wafer level,
followed by dicing of the sealed devices/circuits. This is in contrast to the conventional
approach, where the device/circuit dies are first singulated from the wafer and then
suitably packaged.
G3.1
The access to the device pads, in WLP, is provided through vias in the cover wafer, which
are completely filled using electroplating techniques. Post filling of the vias, the surface of
the cover wafer is planarized, to make it suitable for subsequent lithographic processes.
Proposals are invited to develop production friendly processes for micro-via formation,
micro-via filling and wafer planarization processes, in the (Si/SiC/Quartz) cover wafer, for
their subsequent patterning and bonding to device wafer. The via-filled and planarized
wafers shall be vetted for their suitability for bonding with the device wafer. Detailed
process recipes shall serve as the deliverables of the project.
Development of Silicon micromachined THz interconnects (SAC)
High transmission losses associated with planar transmission lines obviates their use
at mm and sub-mm wavelengths. Metal waveguides realized through fine CNC milling
techniques have hence become the preferred medium for signal transmission at THz
frequencies. However, they need accurate hand alignment and are non-compatible to
planar integration with THz active and passive devices. Since the last few years, Deep
Reactive Ion Etching (DRIE) based Silicon micromachining has shown immense promise
G3.2
for the realization of THz interconnects and hence are being actively pursued in research.
Proposals are invited for development of DRIE based Silicon micromachining processes
for realizing THz interconnects. The scope of the proposed work shall include (a)
development of Si micromachining processes for THz interconnects suitable up to
500 GHz and (b) demonstration of performance through fabrication and testing of
interconnects. The process recipes developed and the hardware realized shall serve as
the deliverables of the project.
Development and integration of Ferrite material compatible with DuPont 951 LTCC
tape system and realization of circulator (SAC)
G3.3 Low Temperature Cofired Ceramics (LTCC) is a 3D glass-ceramics multilayer packaging
technology that enables the embedding of passive components such as resistors,
inductors, capacitors, filters, and power dividers. As the demand for more compact and
170

--- Page 185 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
lightweight components increases, there is a need to integrate diverse materials like
ferrite. The development and integration of ferrite materials compatible with the
Dupont 951 LTCC tape system are crucial for the realization of circulators. This integration
requires careful consideration of sintering compatibility, ensuring that the materials can
withstand high temperatures while maintaining proper shrinkage matching during the
firing process.
Proposals are invited for development of Ferrite materials compatible with Dupont 951
tape system The scope of work should include
1. Development of compatible ferrite materials
2. Integration with LTCC modules
3. Design of X band circulator in LTCC
4. Realization of circulator using developed process
5. Testing of circulator
Development and Integration of High-K Materials Compatible with the DuPont
951 LTCC Tape System (SAC)
To enhance the integration density and reduce the size in electronic circuit, it is essential
to incorporate as many components and elements as possible within the LTCC system.
Middle or High-K materials (K > 300) are crucial for fabricating capacitors with values of
100 pF or higher. Usually a middle-k or high-k dielectric is integrated as screen-printed
thick film or green tape in the multilayer modules during lamination. These materials
G3.4 must remain compatible with the LTCC process, particularly during the firing operation,
to ensure reliability and performance.
Proposals are invited for development of High -K material compatible with Dupont 951
tape system The scope of work should include
1. Development of High K materials
2. Integration with LTCC modules
3. Realization of capacitor using developed process and subsequent testing.
Brazing/Attachment media for Ceramic /Quartz substrates for high reliable micro
assembly (SAC)
This work shall include selection of reliable micro assembly Candidate material based
on thermomechanical modelling and experimentations for the following applications:
G3.5 A) Void free low temperature (~ 300 degC) attachment media and process of large
ceramic substrate (1”x1 “to 3”x5”) attach over metallic carrier plates suitable to
withstand -55 to +125 degC temperature cycle regime.
Configuration study and recommendations on metallic carrier mechanical properties
are also to be devised for reliable assembly for a given substrate configuration/design.
171

--- Page 186 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Simulation & experimental study of attachment void v/s over RF performance up to
Ka Band Amplifier circuit made with discrete elements and alumina substrates.
B) Void free, thin bond line thickness (~ 200 nm) attachment media and process of
quartz substrate (with 25:1 aspect ratio) attachment on metallic carrier plate, suitable
to withstand 0 to – 4K temperature cycle regime.
Research areas in Micro and Diffractive Optical Component
G4 Sub Area
Technologies (SAC)
Development of 45° Bending Mirror for out-of-plane coupling in Polymer Optical
Waveguides for Optical Interconnects (SAC)
Bending Mirror is one of the simple solutions for out-of-plane coupling of light between
optical waveguides and optoelectronic devices fabrication. In this type of coupling,
light is reflected due to either a metal coating or total internal reflection at the end of
a polymer waveguide. A PCB compatible 45° bending micro mirror is to be fabricated
on polymer optical waveguides using tilted beam photolithography. After successful
G4 .1
fabrication, the mirror needs to be characterized for coupling efficiency.
The activity shall include the following:
a. Survey and selection of required materials and process as per detailed SAC
requirements.
b. Development of fabrication process.
c. Component demonstration and measurement of coupling efficiency.
Development of Precision Slits / Apertures / Bar Targets (SAC)
Precision slits, apertures and bar targets are one of the essential components for
realization / calibration of optical imaging cameras. These components when fabricated
with high precision provide a well-defined desired image without problems like beam
scattering etc.
The precision slits / apertures / bar targets may be fabricated in Si (with appropriate
optical coatings) or in metal foils (of appropriate metal) so that it works with the visible
G4 .2
and IR spectrums. The coated Si substrate / metal foil shall work as an opaque material
with the gaps in them allowing the light to pass through as per the design of the pattern.
The activity shall include the following:
a. Survey and selection of required materials as per detailed SAC requirements.
b. Development of fabrication process, typically Si through etch / Lithographie,
Galvanoformung, Abformung (LIGA) based processes.
c. Process, component demonstration and qualification.
172

--- Page 187 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Development of Deformable Mirror (SAC)
Deformable mirror is an integral part of a variety of modern adaptive optics system,
which are used to correct the optical aberration of the wave front. It is carried out by
deforming the shape of a membrane (mirror) in response to an applied control signal.
A Polysilicon Multi-Users MEMS (PolyMUMPS) type or similar process is to be developed
for Fabrication and Packaging of the deformable mirror array device. It is desirable that
G4 .3 fabrication and packaging be followed by relevant characterization steps to validate the
performance of the device.
The activity shall include the following:
a. Survey and selection of required materials and process as per detailed SAC
requirements.
b. Development of the fabrication process.
c. Process, component demonstration and qualification.
Development of Reflective Optical Coating over PMMA Resist (SAC)
Optical coating is an important process in several micro/diffractive optical devices
in order to alter the way light interacts with them. To achieve required reflectance in
the desired wavelength range appropriate reflective optical coatings are used. This
application requires reflective optical coating on 2D/3D shapes fabricated over Poly
Methyl Methacrylate (PMMA), a polymer.
This work requires the development of optical coating over 950K PMMA Electron Beam
G4 .4
Sensitive Resist. The structure shall have either binary or greyscale resist pattern over
planar or non- planar substrates of irregular sizes. The coating shall have excellent
adhesion with resist (PMMA) and shall preferably be abrasion free.
The activity shall include the following:
a. Survey and selection of required materials as per detailed SAC requirements.
b. Development of optical coating process over Patterned PMMA Resist Structures.
c. Process, coating performance demonstration and qualification.
G5 Sub Area Research areas in Microfabrication Process Technologies (SAC)
Development of Electron Beam Sensitive and Dry Etch Compatible High Resolution
Resist (SAC)
Electron beam lithography has been an attractive technology to delineate
nano-structures. These patterned structures can further be transferred on underlying
G5.1
metals (such as Aluminium in this case) using Dry Etching technique. This process
requires the resist to be electron beam sensitive as well as dry etching compatible.
Scope of Work includes a Dry etching compatible electron beam sensitive resist with its
developer is to be prepared.
173

--- Page 188 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
The activity shall include the following:
a. Survey, selection and development of required materials for synthesis of resist,
developer etc. as per detailed SAC requirements.
b. Process, material demonstration and qualification - Process with Aluminium
Deposition, Electron Beam Lithography, Aluminium Dry Etching over an area of
15mm x 15mm with 70nm half pitch (preferable 40nm) Binary Grating structures.
Development of Electron Beam Sensitive and Lift off Compatible Resist (SAC)
In many standard micro-fabrication processes, Electron beam lithography and lift off
process is inevitable. Electron beam lithography, a direct write technique, uses resists
like PolyMethyl Methacrylate (PMMA) resist with its co-polymer for the lift off process.
This process requires formation of an undercut resist profile, which helps in achieving
smoother metal lift off.
G5.2 Proposals are invited for the development of Electron beam resists with its co-polymer,
suitable developer and removal agent (as per detailed SAC requirements)that should be
able to support metal lift off process.
The activity shall include:
a. Survey, selection and development of required materials for synthesis of resist,
developer, remover etc. as per detailed SAC requirements.
b. Process demonstration using the developed material.
Development of Dry Film Resist for Thin Film Integration on LTCC (SAC)
Low temperature co-fired ceramic is a useful technology for RF applications. Integration
of multilayer structure in LTCC is based on thick film processing. Development of dry film
resist (DFR) is required for thin film integration on LTCC. This is needed for the fabrication
of certain circuit elements having smaller (<100µm) features.
Scope of Work:
A Dry Film Resist is to be developed and using it process needs to be demonstrated
G5.3 meeting SAC requirements. The LTCC contains slots (cavities) and may have process-
induced warpage, bow etc.
The activity shall include the following:
a. Survey, selection and development of required materials, resists, developer, plating
chemistries, suitable equipment etc.
b. Development of fabrication process, which includes seed-layer deposition, DFR
lamination, lithography, electroplating, seed layer etching etc.
c. Process demonstration using developed resist.
174

--- Page 189 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Electrically controlled tunable integrated devices using Magneto-electric (ME)
composites (Thin film/Bulk & Thin film/thin film) for microwave integrated circuit
applications (SAC)
The emerging research area of Magneto-electric devices where the magnetic
characteristics are controlled by an electric field and/or the electric characteristics are
controlled by a magnetic field, the magnetoelectric (ME) effect, is a very attractive
G5.4 subject for novel microwave circuit applications. The composite systems usually include
Ferrite-Ferroelectric/Piezoelectric combinations. In such bilayer system, the ferrite,
when driven to Ferromagnetic Resonance (FMR) and an electrical signal is applied; the
FMR frequency can be shift thereby facilitating tunable characteristic. It is proposed to
develop suitable composite material system with at least one component in thin film
form and demonstrate dual-tunable integrated microwave components like tunable
inductor, phase-shifter, attenuators, filters etc. using the developed material system.
Studies on energy dependent Secondary Electron Yield of Carbon Nanotube (CNT)
coatings on OFHC Copper for high frequency (Ka band) TWT (SAC)
One of the prime objectives of very high frequency (e.g. Ka band) TWT especially for
Space use, is to reduce the secondary electron emission (SEE) from Multistage Depressed
Collectors (MDC) so as to improve the TWT efficiency. Variety of techniques have been
G5.5
investigated and being deployed for the intended objective. One of the recent research
areas is developing CNT coating on conducting surface of collector which is expected to
reduce secondary electron yield by a factor compare to other materials like Graphite. The
activity aims to develop suitable method for CNT synthesis, deposition of CNT coating
on OFHC cupper collector surface and characterizing the SEE.
Development of Nanostructured Magnetostrictive thin films for Surface Acoustic
Wave Applications (SAC)
Surface Acoustic Wave (SAW) devices are widely used in communications such as filters,
G5.6 delay line etc. Conventional SAW devices consist of metallic IDT on top of piezoelectric
film or substrates. Research involves the development of high quality thin films of giant
magnetostrictive materials (e.g. Fe-Si) which exhibit high magnetostriction coefficient
suitable for low insertion loss SAW devices.
G6 Sub Area Research areas in Electronic Fabrication (SAC)
On-Line Process Monitoring of Organic Additives in Copper Electroplating Baths
for PCBs (SAC)
Copper Electroplating is one of the vital technologies in printed circuit fabrication
processes. For Space industry, circuit board fabricated requires maximum efficiency and
G6.1
superior product quality in process. To achieve good via quality, plating solution requires
constant monitoring of several key components in plating bath. There are few organic
additives which cannot be determined through normal titration, but these additives
play pivotal role in shaping final copper layer.
175

--- Page 190 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
We need to develop the process analyzer which allows in process measurement
and control of these additives and its concentration in plating solutions thereupon
maintaining optimal plating conditions and improving overall efficiency and reliability
of plated product in manufacturing.
This research may benefit in various aspects as follows:
• Cost saving through minimizing waste and maximizing efficiency of plating additives.
• Mitigating risk of defects by consistent monitoring of additives.
• Optimizing plating performance by maintaining narrow range and superior quality.
G7 Sub Area Research area in Electronic Calibration (SAC)
Calibration of Test & Measuring Equipment used in the field of Optical
Communication (SAC)
SAC is involved in development of optical communication devices like optical amplifier,
photonics Analog to Digital convertor, optical switches, O-E & E-O convertors which are
used in high speed optical links etc. For Testing of these devices Test & Measurement
G7.1 Equipments are used like Tuneable Laser Sources, Optical Power Meter, Optical Attenuator
and Optical Spectrum Analyzers. So seeing increase in optical payload activity; SAC
calibration facility is working for upgradation in the field of optical communication. For
this Calibration lab is trying to establish the traceability for optical parameter especially
in the band of 1550±20 nm and trying to find out the ways for calibration/validation of
test & measuring equipment in optical communication field.
Research Areas in the field of Surface Treatment Process
G8 Sub Area
Technologies (SAC)
Process Development to realize Electroforming Process for Aluminium Component
(SAC)
Electroforming is a technique used in fabrication of complex contoured components
with high dimensional tolerances which are difficult to fabricate using conventional
machining methodology. At present, electroforming process of copper components on
G8.1
Aluminium mandrels has been successfully realized at SAC. Copper has disadvantage of
high density of 8.9 grams/cc.
Hence, efforts are invited to carry out in depth feasibility study to realize electroforming
process of Aluminium components and develop detailed process & setup for the same.
This process can be used for mm-wave components.
Development of Electroless Gold Plating Process (SAC)
Gold plating on aluminium 6061T6 boxes and Kovar carrier plates is being carried out for
G8.2 EMI/EMC requirements, corrosion protection, solder ability etc.
Hence, efforts are invited in the area of Electro less gold plating process using either
cyanide based or non-cyanide based chemistry for plating aluminium 6061T6 alloy
176

--- Page 191 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
components/Kovar substrates with plating thickness of >=2 microns of gold. Once
developed, this process will be used for all ISRO projects as per requirements.
Indigenous Development of Black Thermal Control Paints for Space use (SAC)
Thermal Paints are used to impart desired thermo-optical surface properties to space
hardware. Black thermal paint with improved emissivity and solar absorptivity values
and with very good adhesion to various base surfaces like Aluminium Alloy 6061, Silver
plated Aluminium Alloy, Electroless Nickel plated Aluminium Alloy, Anodized Aluminium
alloy, SS-316, CFRP etc., is proposed to indigenously develop and qualify for space use.
Black Thermal paint shall meet outgassing properties as per ASTM E 595 / ECSC-Q-ST-
70-02C) and pass various qualification tests like humidity test, Thermo-vacuum test,
Thermal cycling test and adhesion test etc.
G8.3
Hence efforts in research, development, testing and qualification and production of
sprayable Black thermal paints, preferably environment friendly, are invited. The broad
scope of work and specifications are: -
1. Development of primer system/s, preferably 1K, compatible for (1) Aluminium Alloy
6061, (2) Silver plated Aluminium Alloy, (3) Electroless Nickel plated Aluminium Alloy,
(4) Anodized Aluminium alloy, (5) CFRP, (6) SS-306.
2. Development of Black thermal paint (top coat) with outgassing properties., CVCM
≤ 0.1% and TML ≤ 1% and Thermo-optical properties., Emissivity ≥ 0.9 and solar
absorptivity ≥ 0.9.
Development of a Compact Water Electrolyzer Prototype for Gaganyaan Missions
(SAC)
A critical aspect of sustaining long-duration missions in space is the efficient generation
of life-supporting gases, particularly oxygen and hydrogen from water. Proposal outlines
the design and development of a compact water electrolyzer prototype, optimized for
space conditions, which will facilitate the electrolysis of water to produce oxygen for
breathing and hydrogen for fuel.
G8.4
1. To design and fabricate a compact water electrolyzer that utilizes a suitable membrane
for enhanced efficiency in electrolysis.
2. To develop an effective oxygen filtration and collection system to ensure the purity of
generated oxygen.
3. To create a hydrogen filtration and collection cylinder capable of safely storing the
produced hydrogen for possible fuel applications during the Gaganyaan missions.
Development of High Emissivity >0.9) and Low Solar Absorptivity (<0.2) Oxide
Coating using appropriate process on Al6061 Aluminium Alloy (SAC)
G8.5
The efficient thermal management of spacecraft and microwave devices such as
Traveling Wave Tube Amplifiers (TWTAs) is crucial for enhancing performance and
177

--- Page 192 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
reliability in space environments. This project aims to develop a white oxide coating
on aluminum alloy Al6061 that achieves a high emissivity of greater than 0.9 and a low
solar absorptivity of less than 0.2. Such a coating will facilitate effective heat removal,
ensuring optimal operational conditions for critical aerospace components.
1. Formulate an oxide coating process that includes specific bath compositions, process
parameters, and conditions tailored for Al6061.
2. Achieve a coated surface with emissivity values exceeding 0.9 and solar absorptivity
below 0.2.
3. Validate the coating’s performance through rigorous testing against established space
environment criteria, including heat resistance at 500°C, thermal cycling, outgassing,
and thermo-vacuum conditions.
Research Areas in the field of Space Environment Simulation and testing
technologies (SAC)
Environmental Testing is an important activity in the process of Payload development.
Facilities have several hot and cold chambers and Thermo-vacuum chambers up to
6.5m Dia. which meets the environmental test requirements of various payloads being
G8.6 developed at SAC, Ahmedabad.
Establishment of new facilities and augmentation of existing facilities to accommodate
special test requirements is a continuous process. This demands innovative solution to
emerge in close collaboration with the academic institutions and industrial research
units.Collaborative efforts are invited from academic institutions in following upcoming
requirements/research areas as outlined below.
Super Insulated Cryogenic Transfer Lines (SAC)
Vacuum jacketed Cryogenic transfer lines are an integral part of a thermal vacuum
system, as they offer compact size footprint, extremely low heat inleak, aesthetic layouts,
ease of installation and lower long-term maintenance costs.
G8.7
The scope of this work will involve development for non-metallic, light weight; low
loss cryogen transfers lines especially for efficient distribution of Liquid nitrogen. The
functional temperature range to be considered for the SI lines should be -196degC to
+50degC.
Pulse-Tube Cryo Cooler (SAC)
Pulse tube cryo-coolers have been evolved in recent years and matured as a promising
technology for meeting the challenging cooling requirements of space industry. They
G8.8 provide significant advantages in terms of overall size, extremely lower vibration levels,
and higher reliability. These coolers have been used in ground segment testing of space
hardware as well as for onboard applications.
178

--- Page 193 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
The scope of this work shall entail development of compact, low cost single stage/ double
stage Pulse Tube cryo-coolers to facilitate testing tiny devices at low temperature as well
as for low cooling requirement for IR/CCD detectors. Expected cold tip temperature for
this development activity is 80K with ~10-watt cooling capacity @80K, which can be
verified in existing facilities at SAC with appropriate set-up.
ThermoAcoustic Cooler (SAC)
Thermoacoustic coolers can provide a very compact, simple & reliable way for producing
the desired refrigeration effect. This cooler also has an advantage of using inert gases
G8.9
and produces very low environmental impact.
The scope of this work will involve development of acoustic coolers for small detector
cooling application and handling heat from the heat sinks etc.
Mixed Gas Refrigeration System(SAC)
The recent advancements in the development of mixed gas refrigeration systems has
generated considerable interests in potential application of such systems, which were
earlier out of reach for mechanical refrigeration systems particularly for cryogenic
temperatures.
The scope of this work shall involve development of mixed gas refrigeration based
G8.10
thermal system for compact climate test chambers and thermal vacuum chambers.
The researchers shall be responsible for design, simulation, analysis, optimization &
realization and testing of thermoelectric coolers.
The expected lowest temperature for mixed gas refrigeration system is -150degC
in cascade mode. The performance of the realized system will be tested and verified
against the target specifications.
Contamination Control study (SAC)
Contamination control plays an extremely important role particularly in realization of
electro-optical payloads, where any unintended activity/process can lead to severely
impact the mission life.
The present proposal entails a study, simulation and analysis of various forms of
G8.11
contaminations like surface and airborne particulates, surface and airborne molecular
contaminants in and around thermo-vacuum chambers. Carryout in–depth measurement
of such contaminants using APC, PFO, RGA, TQCM
available and carry out detailed process study as well as make recommendations in this
regard for implementation.
Liquid nitrogen consumption and optimization study (SAC)
G8.12 Liquid nitrogen is a fluid of choice for majority of thermal vacuum chambers due to
its characteristics like low temperature of liquefaction, very wide temperature range in
179

--- Page 194 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
single phase, large latent heat of evaporation and lower cost. As LN2 is utilized across
the facilities in majority of thermal vacuum chambers, its overall usage and optimization
is equally important.
The present proposal will involve Study and analysis of Liquid Nitrogen consumption in
Thermo-vacuum test facility with respect to different type of tests being carried out in
different LN2 based thermo-vacuum chambers. Study and analyze transfer, static and
flash losses taking place in various system elements during thermo-vacuum tests and
carry out detailed process study as well as make recommendations in this regard for
implementation.
InfraRed imaging system for temperature monitoring (SAC)
Real time temperature monitoring of different critical components and surfaces during
a thermal vacuum testing necessitates availability and utilization of an accurate & fast
response-based temperature measurement system. Temperature sensor mounting at
the required locations on a subsystem is an essential but laborious and time intensive
G8.13 activity, and an IR based imaging system can provide a non-contact type real time
temperature monitoring inside a thermal vacuum chamber.
The present scope of work involves a development of IR mapper-based temperature
measurement system for monitoring the package temperature inside a thermal vacuum
chamber, thereby eliminating the need of physically temperature sensor mounting. The
required temperature range for the measurements is, from -40degC to +85degC.
Design and realization of XHV system (SAC)
Achieving Extreme High vacuum has been a holy grail of vacuum science. Simulation of
interstellar space, processing of some advanced semiconductor devices, surface science
G8.14
experiments and measurements are few important applications for XHV level.
The present scope of work will involve development of a small experimental cavity/
volume XHV system for achieving better than 1e-12 mbar vacuum.
Zero-Boil-Off System (SAC)
Zero-Boil-Off (ZBO) systems can provide considerable savings for mission critical
cryogens particularly for interplanetary missions. These systems become more critical
for human space missions needing long duration in space. ZBO-Zero Boil Off Cryogenic
system will demonstrate long term storage & saving of cryogen (Experimental system)
with minimal cryogen losses from the storage tanks due to natural boil-off. The proposed
G8.15
prototype may also be utilized as a platform for future interplanetary type missions
which will certainly have this requirement.
The proposed study will involve study of different options, simulation and analysis of
ZBO system, realization of an experimental system to validate the theoretical models
and to make proposal for an operation system.
180

--- Page 195 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Cryogenic Radial fan Blower for Thermal Conditioning Unit (SAC)
The devices under test (DUTs) in a Thermal Vacuum chamber need to be heated or cooled
by radiation and conduction heat transfer in a maximum temperature range typically
ranging from +100°C to -100°C under high vacuum conditions. A Thermal Conditioning
Unit (TCU) is a dense gas circulation based closed loop system, which is used to achieve
this stringent temperature excursion requirement with required temperature uniformity.
A Cryogenic radial fan/blower (which is a centrifugal blower) is the heart of this TCU,
which is used to circulate this dense gas, generally Nitrogen. A Thermal Conditioning
Unit is developed in house in SAC under TDP, but the cryogenic blower in this TCU is still
to be indigenize.
The present study will involve the design, development, testing, and delivery of VFD
driven high RPM cryogenic centrifugal blower, with a wide temperature range operation
(-100°C to +100°C) for the performance parameters defined as follows
G8.16 Sr. Specification Value Remarks
No.
1 Fluid-Medium Nitrogen gas
2 Mass flow rate 80 - 350 kg/hr Or wider
3 Inlet/outlet size 50 NB With CF 65 Flange end connections
4 Inlet pressure 6 bar Or higher
5 Inlet Temperature -100°C to +100°C Or wider
range
6 Material Of SS-304L/316L Or suitable material catering to
construction this temperature range
7 Differential pressure 300mbar to 1000mbar Minimum
8 Rotational speed Controllable as per With variable frequency drive-
requirement VFD to control the mass flow rate
specified in spec. 2
9 Power 3 Phase 415V 50 Hz
Bayonet couplings (SAC)
Bayonet couplings are vacuum jacketed cryogenic couplings and are regularly used in
the field distributions lines for cryogenic applications as well as directly on the cryogenic
equipment for ease of connection and disconnection. These specialised mechanical
couplings provide a leak tight connection with minimal heat transfer and allow safe and
G8.17
efficient transfer of cryogenic liquid (like liquid nitrogen).
The present study will involve the design, analysis, development, testing, and delivery
of two sets (1/2 inch NB size) of bayonet joints (both male and female components with
their seals and clamping system) for the transfer of liquid nitrogen.
181

--- Page 196 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Micro-Pirani gauge for vacuum measurements (SAC)
Pirani gauges are the mainstay of sub-atmospheric pressure measurement systems
in the process industry as well as in the R&D labs for myriad applications. The Pirani
gauges have a limited sensitivity towards the lower pressures (or the improving vacuum
levels), and this limitation can be overcome with the introduction of Pirani element
G8.18
at miniaturised level. Such sensors are already available from the import sources, and
hence the proposal is invited to develop these sensors indegeously.
The present study will involve the configuration, design, simulation, and prototyping the
sensor for measuring the vacuum levels in the sensor cavity in the range of 1000mbar
to 1e-4mbar.
Three stage Cascade Refrigeration System (SAC)
The recent advancements in the development of three stage cascade refrigeration
systems has generated considerable interests in potential application of such systems,
which were earlier out of reach for mechanical refrigeration systems particularly for
cryogenic temperatures.
The expected lowest temperature from three stage cascade refrigeration system is -120
G8.19
°C. The principle of cascade system is very simple. But realizing the mechanical system
with such a low temperature with non-CFC refrigerant is another aspect.
The scope of this work shall achieve for fast transition rate with cryogenic range
temperature cycle tests in climate test chambers. The researchers shall be responsible
for design, simulation, analysis, optimization, realization and testing of refrigeration
systems with use of non-CFC and non-HCFC refrigerants.
G9 Sub Area Research Areas in Thermal Engineering (SAC)
Cryo Coolers and related Drive Electronics (SAC)
Cryo-coolers and its associated technologies need to be developed for cooling of various
kinds of detectors/systems in cryogenic temperature ranges up to 4.2K. Sterling Type
Pulsed Tube Cryo-cooler (STPC) is promising candidate for such requirement for Space
use due to less mass and power requirement. Following are the envisaged development
G9.1
requirement for
Cold-Head Assembly
Pressure Wave Generator (PWG)
Cooler Drive Electronics (CDE)
Variable Emissivity Coated (VEC) Micro-electromechanical System (MEMS)
radiators (SAC)
G9.2 Technologies/process related to development of VEC/MEMS based radiators for
optimizing radiator size for deep space missions need to be developed. Collaboration is
envisaged in any experimental/numerical aspect of the same.
182

--- Page 197 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Cooling technologies for ultra-low temperature range cooling (SAC)
(a) Adiabatic demagnetization refrigerator (ADR)
It is a cooling technology based on the magneto caloric effect. This technique can
be used to attain extremely low temperatures (below 0.5K). The basic operating
principle of an ADR is the use of a strong magnetic field to control the entropy of a
sample of material, often called the “refrigerant”. The operation of a standard ADR
proceeds roughly as follows. First, a strong magnetic field is applied to the refrigerant,
forcing its various magnetic dipoles to align and putting these degrees of freedom
of the refrigerant into a state of lowered entropy. The heat sink then absorbs the
heat released by the refrigerant due to its loss of entropy. Thermal contact with the
heat sink is then broken so that the system is insulated, and the magnetic field is
switched off, increasing the heat capacity of the refrigerant, thus decreasing its
temperature below the temperature of the heat sink. In practice, the magnetic field is
decreased slowly in order to provide continuous cooling and keep the sample at an
approximately constant low temperature. Once the field falls to zero or to some low
limiting value determined by the properties of the refrigerant, the cooling power of
G9.3
the ADR vanishes, and heat leaks will cause the refrigerant to warm up.
Collaboration is envisaged in development of various subsystems and critical
technologies related to ADR like salt pill, Magneto Resistive Heat Switches,
Superconducting Magnets, etc. Development of numerical code for modelling of
magneto calorific effect (MCE) and system level modelling of ADR also need to be
taken up in joint academic collaboration.
(b) Optical Cooling:
Optical refers to a number of techniques in which atomic and molecular samples
are cooled down to near absolute zero. Laser cooling techniques rely on the fact
that when an object (usually an atom) absorbs and re-emits a photon (a particle
of light) its momentum changes. For an ensemble of particles, their temperature is
proportional to the variance in their velocity. That is, more homogeneous velocities
among particles corresponds to a lower temperature. Laser cooling techniques
combine atomic spectroscopy with the aforementioned mechanical effect of light to
compress the velocity distribution of an ensemble of particles, thereby cooling the
particles.
Heat Diffusion/Transportation devices for heat transfer through conduction of
miniature high heat flux electronics device/system (SAC)
In space conduction is the prime mode of heat transfer from heat source to space
G9.4 exposed sink. Thermal management of High dissipating miniature electronics devices
is quite challenging. Through this topic, expects researcher to explore various passive
means of heat diffuser and high heat conductive devices, easy to interface with the heat
source and offers efficient heat transportation.
183

--- Page 198 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
H Area Semiconductor Technology for Microelectronics Design (URSC)
Development of GaN HEMT for Spacecraft Avionics (URSC)
A large number of radiation hardened MOSFET power transistors (VDS of 100-250V
and drive @ 8-30A) are being used in spacecraft avionics. These devices are becoming
obsolete and has to be realized in advanced technology.
Gallium nitride (GaN) technology facilitates the creation of a new generation of power
transistors capable of operating in the challenging radiation conditions of space. GaN
power semiconductors offer significant improvements in electrical performance over
H1
traditional silicon power MOSFETs. GaN devices and integrated circuits (ICs) realized
with GaN HEMTs excel in higher frequencies, have increased efficiency, greater power
densities and superior radiation tolerance at a reduced size compared to silicon MOSFETs.
Aim of the proposal is to develop radiation tolerant GaN technology for high power
HEMTs for spacecraft avionics. This includes technology development, device modelling
and development of PDKs for circuit design with the developed device models using
industry standard EDA tools.
I Area Mechanical Engineering Systems (SAC/URSC)
Research areas in Mechanical Design and Development of
I1 Sub Area
Microwave Remote Sensing Payloads (SAC)
Evaluation of material mechanical properties after plastic deformation (SAC)
Behaviour of metal components beyond linear elastic range has remained a gray area
in the field of space payload component development. Understanding variation of
mechanical properties post plastic deformation will enable accurate life estimation and
mass optimization in payload components. For comparison one can take example of
an L-angle realized using matching and the other realized by bending a sheet of same
material and cross section. The structural behaviour of both the components will be in a
way that machined component will be more rigid than the formed component.
I1.1
The study will enable us to mathematically understand the behaviour, which can be
further included in analysis programs to predict accurate life of metals components and
joints, where metal forming is inevitable. Such applications are forming of connector
and CQFP pins, formed structural components.
It’s expected to evaluate mechanical properties, evolve mathematical formulation, FE
code for behaviour of metals post plastic deformation & Experiment set-up for validation
of the mathematical code.
184

--- Page 199 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Suppression of structural dynamic response in Multi-level Stacked electronics
package assemblies (SAC)
Payload subsystems are stacked one over the other in order to reduce footprint of
electronics subsystems on spacecraft deck. With each level increase in package stacking,
I1.2 the structural dynamic response of the stack on the top increases, which forms limiting
factor for the packages/ devices planned to be stacked on the top. A methodology
to reduce structural dynamics responses on the stack-up top, without compromising
thermal coupling between packages, will enable further reduction in footprint by
accommodating more packages on stack-up top.
Numerical simulation of Wire rope isolators under vibration environment (SAC)
Wire rope isolators have been widely used in transportation industry ranging from Rail,
road, sea, air to Space transportation. The isolation products made of wire ropes cater
to both vibration isolation as well as shock suppression and provide a robust solution to
the transportation industry. The products are robust, durable & reliable.
I1.3
However, the behaviour of such product is less understood in FE environment. Through,
the characterization details of each type of isolator are widely available, if a capability of
‘simulating wire rope isolator behaviour’ in FE environment is developed, it will enable
us to explore many more geometries/ topologies/ arrangements and various loading
conditions along with the behaviour of suspended system.
Measurement of structural & thermal material properties of adhesives for a
temperature range of 4K to 500K (SAC)
Objective of this research is to carry out measurement of structural material properties
of adhesives such as Elastic modulus, Poisson’s Ratio, yield strength, ultimate strength,
shear strength, surface hardness, thermal expansion co-efficient and thermal properties
I1.4 such as thermal conductivity, specific heat capacity. Epoxy based structural, thermal
and Room Temperature Vulcanizing (RTV) adhesives, which are used for Aerospace
applications, can be considered for the purpose of evaluation of the above mentioned
properties for a temperature range of 4K to 500K.
This results obtained from this research should be compiled in a report for use of
structural and thermal designers.
Active cooling methods for Microwave packages of space payloads (SAC)
With increase in heat dissipation densities due to increase in power of RF devices and
miniaturization of subsystems, current passive cooling techniques have a limitation,
I1.5
which can be overcome by design of compact Active cooling for such devices, which
enables utilizing the device capabilities to the fullest. The proposed cooling methods
may include Phase change materials, Thermo-electric coolers, micro heat pipes etc.
185

--- Page 200 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Deployable Radiators (SAC)
Spacecraft and space payloads largely depend upon Passive cooling using radiator
plates for thermal control and heat management, without using spacecraft power.
Though beneficial, the technology is constrained with the limited radiation area that
comes withing the assigned payload volume. A deployable radiator is stowed while
being accommodated inside payload fairing on launch vehicle and can be deployed in
I1.6
space, when payload is operational and thermal management is needed. Many such
examples including deployable thermal shield for JWST are already working in orbit
and have proved their effectiveness. Though, smaller deployable radiators associated
to payload subsystems are commonly not observed. Technologies associated with
deployable radiators to obtain improved thermal control of payload are required to be
explored.
Effect of Annealing (Heat Treatment) on Thermal Contact Resistance of Copper and
Aluminium at Cryogenic Temperature (SAC)
Objective of this study is to examine effect of annealing on Thermal Contact Resistance
of metal-to-metal joints. This study is to be done for annealed samples as well as for
non-annealed samples to quantify the variations. All experiments are to be done in
cryogenic temperature range of 4-10K or 20-40K or 80-100 K or in all ranges.
I1.7 Experiments are to be done using OFHC Copper and various metal joint combinations
such as 1) Oxygen free High Conductivity (OFHC) Copper to OFHC Copper. 2) Aluminum
to OFHC Copper 4) OFHC Copper to Tellurium Copper (TeCu) 4) Aluminum to Tellurium
Copper (TeCu) etc.
Effect of bulk material conductivity and thermal contact resistance is to be studied after
machining annealed samples to achieve better surface roughness. All the results are to
be consolidated and guideline based on the experiments is to be made.
Design and Development of Thermal Link to achieve Thermal Contact at Cryogenic
Temperature based on Differential Contraction (SAC)
Cryostat used for ground based astronomical telescopes consists of Cryogenically cooled
front-end electronics to improve the system sensitivity. Cryostat for these applications
consists of a vacuum enclosure and to achieve cryogenic temperature, GM Cryocoolers
are used. GM Cryocooler cold head is inserted inside Cryostat and is anchored with
I1.8
components to be cooled using Flexible metal straps.
Cryogenically cooled electronics is mounted on a separate structure having multiple
stages to maintain different temperature inside Cryostat. These stages are separated
using low thermal conductivity rods. This structure is assembled inside Cryostat and
required thermal contact is made to achieve temperatures at various stages of structure
during operation.
186

--- Page 201 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
required thermal contact is made to achieve temperatures at various stages of structure
during operation. Proposed thermal link will be used to achieve required thermal contact
between Cryocooler Cold Head and Front-end electronics structure. Thermal link will
be made of two parts, first part (external Housing) will be assembled inside Cryostat
and second part (Internal Housing) will be assembled on the structure over which
electronics is mounted. External housing assembled inside Cryostat will be anchored
with Cryocooler Cold head using Flexible straps/braids. Internal Housing assembled on
the electronics structure will be inserted inside Cryostat. External housing will receive
the structure during assembly and structure will be connected with Cryostat vessel.
During Cool down both parts of thermal link will contract to establish heat conduction
path. Thermal path shall be established by achieving differential contraction by specific
geometry of both parts of link or by selection of different combination of materials.
This proposal is Design and Development of Thermal link along with realization and
testing of a prototype, which can be used for above-mentioned application. Developed
thermal link shall be compatible for operating temperature as low as ~ 3 K and thermal
contact resistance of the link shall be in order of ~ 0.4 K/W @ 4 K and ~ 0.6 K/W @
80K~100K.
Design and Development of Vertically stacked Graphite structure as Thermal
Interface Material with thin metallic fillers to achieve very high out of plane thermal
conductivity (SAC)
Graphite or similar material sheets can be used to design and realize TIM to achieve very
high out of plane conductivity. These sheets shall be formed in a laminated structure
along with thin metallic layers adjoining these graphite layers to achieve required
thermal conductivity as well as stiffness. Contact pressure to join these laminates shall
also be optimized to achieve minimum possible thermal resistance.
I1.9 Thermal management of electronic subsystems having very high dissipating electronic
devices is a challenge. With the advancement in Technology, heat flux of devices are
also increasing giving rise to a local hotspot. For thermal management of such high
dissipating application, specifically designed thermal interface materials are required.
This proposal is for design and development of thermal interface material (TIM), which
will be used to effectively transmit heat in out of plane, to reduce thermal gradient from
device to the heat sink. These vertically stacked fillers would be required in form of blocks
of different sizes with maximum footprint of 50 mm x 50 mm and thermal resistance of
~ 0.3 cm2.K/W.
187

--- Page 202 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Design and Development of Material Based Solutions for Efficient Heat Conduction
Technologies (SAC)
In order to effectively transport of heat from source to sink, advanced materials with
excellent thermal conduction performance are usually implemented. Heat spreaders
and thermal interface materials facilitate efficient heat transfer. In past, large varieties
of novel materials have been developed by different agencies worldwide to achieve
effective heat conduction path.
Evolution of materials designed for spacecraft thermal management reflects a shift
from isotropic metals to carbon-reinforced polymers, and moving forward to advanced
materials including carbon-carbon composites and annealed pyrolytic graphite (APG).
Typically, composites are composed of at least two disparate substances. A primary
I1.10
substance acts as a host matrix, whereas another serves as the reinforcement, commonly
in the form of fibers embedded in the matrix. With thermosetting compounds such as
epoxy, bismaleimide, and polyimide often employed as standard matrix materials, both
ceramic and metal matrix composites have garnered considerable interest for use in
the aerospace sector in recent years due to their weight saving feature as well as the
high-temperature capability/oxidation resistance characteristics.
This proposal is for design and development of such high thermal conductivity
composite materials, which can be used as thermal interface material (TIM) for thermal
management of space-borne systems. Typical range of in-plane Thermal Conductivity
shall be greater than 800 W/m.K and shall be developed in form of square sheets of
100 mm in thickness of 0.1 mm & 0.2 mm.
Research areas in Composites and Advanced Materials Applications
I2 Sub Area
(SAC)
Modelling and analysing the curing parameters and predicting the thermo-elastic
distortions in the fibre-reinforced polymer composites (SAC)
During curing process of the composites, process-induced residual stresses occur
because of mainly mismatch in thermal expansion coefficients of the constituents,
chemical shrinkage of the resin and non-uniform curing of the composite laminates.
Severe residual stresses can result in transverse matrix cracks and delamination after
processing. Composite parts are prone to bending or warpage due to thermal gradients
I2.1
and residual stresses build up.
To predict the actual distortion, accurate mathematical modelling is required which
addresses chemical reactions, heat generation, heat conduction, selection of the mould
material and other relevant parameters. Critical mechanical component of this model
are evolution of stress and progressive damage analysis. The outcome of the study and
analysis will be helpful in determining optimum process parameters. The scope is to
develop a mathematical/analytical model of the temperature and curing pattern in
188

--- Page 203 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
polymer composites using a thermo-chemical model, and coupling it with a thermo-
mechanical model to predict the residual stresses and viscoelastic response of the
material, predict distortion and damage in the polymer composite using a continuum
damage model. Deciding optimum process parameters of the curing.
Development of acoustic holography-based testing and fault diagnosis techniques
for payload structures (SAC)
Conventional vibration-based fault diagnosis methods are contact-based and require
the mounting of vibration sensors such as accelerometers close to locations of interest on
the engineering equipment. This limits their application in actual situations specifically
for simultaneous testing of various payload components with different shapes and
sizes, monitoring of large surfaces and parts difficult to access. Further, in contact-based
measurements, it is always difficult to decide proper measurement positions and identify
I2.2 the exact location of fault.
Research is required to explore advanced methods to overcome these challenges.
The near-field acoustic holography (NAH) is a promising technique where an array of
microphones can be installed near the structure to record the acoustic-field in a non-
contact way and use the acoustic information to detect as well as locate the faults.
NAH is an effective technique for visualizing sound field data from multi-channel
measurements and has been frequently used for sound source recognition at any
observed. Development of this technique will be helpful in testing of all the sensitive
payload structure which have borderline margin of safety.
Development of High Strain Tolerant Infusion Grade Resin System for the Space
Applications (SAC)
Resin systems are the essential elements for the Development of the Composites materials
and components. The resin systems are primarily responsible for the load transferring
between the reinforcement materials and protecting it for the environmental effects.
I2.3
The composites material exhibits linear behaviour against the applied load near to
its fracture. Large strain tolerant resin system will lead this for the foldable structure
to minimize the space requirements by folding it in the launch vehicle envelope. The
development of the large strain tolerant (>20 %) resin system will pave the way for
minimizing the space about 50% in the stowed conditions.
Design, FE Simulation and Development of Elastic Foldable Reflector for Large
Aperture Antenna (SAC)
Antenna Reflector are the main element for the satellite communication. Due to
I2.4 requirement of the large shape antenna for the future space missions and limitations
for the space in the launch vehicle for the accommodation, elastic foldable antenna
reflectors are the prime candidate for the future satellite based communications and
navigations.
189

--- Page 204 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Development of the large aperture antenna reflectors (at least 2.5m diameter) for the
foldable volume <50% to be targeted for stowing. Non-linear FE simulation to be carried
out for folding, deployment and stability conditions. A prototype reflector is to be
developed and characterized.
Development of shape configurable/deformable parabolic reflector using shape
memory alloy (SMA) or equivalent actuation (SAC)
Development of large flexible antennas is becoming critical today; such antennas can
I2.5 be realized with shape memory alloy actuated mechanism. It can be reconfigured in
space for variable antenna footprint, and hence can be utilized for signal transmission to
different geographical locations. Requirement of changing the shape is quasi-static and
hence SMA based actuators and very much suitable for this application.
Metallization of composites for enhancing electrical and thermal conductivity for
development of RF components (SAC)
Light weight & high modulus composite structures are the need of the current Space
scenario. These composite structures provides excellent load carrying member as well
as maintaining dimensional stability in harsh space environment. The use of composites
are limited to only structural parts. To utilize in realizing RF parts, there is need of
improvement of electrical and thermal conductivity of the composites. Metallization on
a composite part itself calls for the various qualification and always leaves uncertainty in
terms of quality. The biggest challenge is survival of the metallization in extreme space
environment in the orbit. There are various methods, which may be tried for metallization:
• Conductive surface coating or metallization of CFRP. Surface activation & Electro
plating or Electro-less plating.
• Development of Electrically Conductive Prepregs /Resin system (lamination) for
I2.6 Space grade composite systems.
• Development of carbon-carbon composites with excellent electrical and thermal
conductivity for realization of RF components.
• Metallization of CFRP may also be done by inclusion of graphene/CNT at layup stage.
Existing properties of CFRP:
Electrical Conductivity: 104 S/m
Electrical Resistivity: 10-3 Ω.m
Thermal Conductivity: < 1 W/m/K
Desired properties of CFRP:
Electrical Conductivity: 107 S/m
Electrical Resistivity: 10-8 Ω.m
Thermal Conductivity: > 50 W/m/K
190

--- Page 205 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
I3 Sub Area Research areas in Antenna Alignment and Integration (SAC)
Development of retroreflective targets to for generating points cloud using optical
metrological tools (SAC)
In development of spaceborne antennae & payloads; measurement and alignment play a
very critical role. All components of the payload are required to be placed at its designed
position within a very tight tolerances for its efficient performance. The metrology tools
used for the purpose is optical photogrammetry tools. This photogrammetry camera
flashes light over the component under measurement, which is represented by a
I3.1 number of reference points by using retroreflective target. This target reflects back the
light which is captured by camera and processed to represent as a dot point. These point
clouds are monitored for any change and correction of component position.
These targets are essential consumable accessory which is required to be manufactured
indigenously to be available easily and economically to widen the measurement of
components. Therefore, study in this area is required to understand the optical behaviour
of metrology system to synchronize with photogrammetry system within high accuracy.
The target may be developed and can be tested to make it operational.
Development of mathematical model for optimization of surface profile RMS in
segmented reflector antenna (SAC)
The segmented antenna with stringent surface RMS for Ground based is a challenging
from Antenna assembly, integration and alignment aspects. Since wavelength at higher
frequency comes to sub-mm level, it calls for very stringent alignment of each panel
of the segmented antenna systems. In line with this, each panel shall be aligned with
I3.2
respect to global antenna in six degrees of freedom. So overall surface RMS requirement
of segmented antenna is very stringent. To achieve overall antenna RMS, the individual
panel rigid body correction need be corrected by using provided 5 control points on
each reflector panels from given measured point cloud data. This requires mathematical
model for calculation of control points of all panels for optimization / correction of
overall surface profile RMS of antenna.
Research areas in Mechanical Design and Development of Communication
I3.3
Payloads (SAC)
TPG Encapsulated High Conductivity Plates/chassis for High Power Subsystems
(SAC)
Technologies/process related to development of Thermal Pyrolytic Graphite (TPG)
encapsulated high conductivity plates. These plates can be of Stainless Steel, Copper
I3.4
and Aluminum with TPG encapsulated within. Collaboration is envisaged for the
development of different encapsulation techniques based on Electroforming, bonding,
soldering or any integration methods such that it effectively produce a high conductivity
plate.
191

--- Page 206 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
I4 Sub Area Research Areas in Production Technologies (SAC)
Micromachining of metal components (SAC)
Mechanical housing for mm and sub-mm wave length front end RF components are
having micron scale features interconnected with one-another. Fabrication of mechanical
housing for these components are very challenging. Post fabrication, dimensional
inspection is also critical and require special instruments. Materials, which is used for
making mechanical housing, will be primarily OFHC Copper, Tellurium Copper, Al 6061-
T6 etc. Typical feature size and Geometrical tolerances for these mechanical housings
for mm wavelength components are as follows and are made using precision milling
machines or pulse laser machining. These dimensions would reduce further for sub-mm
wavelength components. An image showing a similar component is given here for better
visualization of job. This proposal seeks to utilize existing capabilities and infrastructure
with academia for fabrication of such components.
Existing capabilities and infrastructure with academia for fabrication of such components.
Sr. Feature size Tolerance (mm)
I4.1
No. (Length x Width x Depth)
1 3.30 x 0.30 x 0.05 mm +0.015
-0
2 1.484 x 0.52 x 1.016 mm +0
-0.05
3 0.285 x 0.909 x 0.546 +0
-0.01
Sr. Geometrical Tolerance Value
No.
1 Flatness 0.01 mm
2 Perpendicularity 0.01 mm
3 Parallelism 0.01 mm
4 Position 0.025 mm
5 Surface Roughness 0.025-1.6
Development of Flexible Mandrel for bending of Rectangular Waveguide (WR)
sections (SAC)
Rectangular waveguides are used in communication satellites for transmission of RF
signals because of low signal loss characteristics. Application of the same on satellite
I4.2
panels, require bending in both cross section dimensions i.e. width as well as height
direction, as per below images. At present, fusible alloy is used for bending applications.
It is required to design and develop a flexible mandrel to support inside cavities
during bending applications. So that we get finished product without distortion in
192

--- Page 207 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
cross-section and damaging the inner surface finish. Both surface finish and uniformity
of cross section along the length of the waveguide, are crucial features to transfer RF
signals with minimum losses.
Following are the parameters which should be considered while designing and
development of the Flexible Mandrel:
• Material: Aluminium alloy 6061 (Annealed condition)
• Wall thickness: 0.635 mm
• Inner dimensions of rectangular waveguide section and required bending radii :
Width Height (mm) Mean Bending Radii Mean Bending Radii
(mm) in plane of broad in plane of narrow
side, E-Plane (mm) side, H-Plane (mm)
19.05 9.52 35 30
15.74 7.87 35 30
12.95 6.47 25 20
8.63 4.31 20 20
7.11 3.55 20 20
Targeted Specifications:
• Flexible Mandrel which can support inner walls of the Waveguide section while
bending operation.
• Mandrel shall be drawn out of the sections without damaging the inner walls.
• Single section may also have both types of bends, mandrel flexibility shall be such
that it can be drawn out from both bends.
Realization of “Flexible” Waveguide and establishing Fabrication Process for repeat
Production (SAC)
Microwave Sensors and Payloads require Waveguides as Transmission Line Elements to
route High Power RF Signals across multiple Functional building blocks of the Integrated
System. In certain cases Such Units are located across places having relative motions
(rotations or translations). To route RF Power across such interfaces having relative
motion, there is an option of using suitable “Flexible” Waveguide. Such waveguide is
I4.3 expected to mainly offer H plane and E Plane Bending upto the extent of 90 degrees.
The Sizes to be explored for development are WR62, WR75, WR90 and WR28(Ka
band, Ku band, X band). In international market, there exists sources and technology
to realize such Flexible waveguides. Make-In-India sources are to be established
for which, through this opportunity, proposals are being sought from resourceful
academic teams/collaborators to Realize Products at First Stage and thereby Establish
Fabrication Process for further Repeat Production. For better understanding of Flexible
waveguides, it is recommended that a simple internet search may be done with the key
193

--- Page 208 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
word “Flexible waveguide”. They can be visualized as Metallic Corrugated Bellows, the
profile being rectangular instead of circular for tube as well as for Mating Flanges at
either ends. It should be possible to Implement Surface Treatments like Silver Plating
onto the Product. The surface Finish of internal cavity to be of best achievable order to
minimize RF Losses. The Product should be compatible for use-application in Vacuum
environment with operating temperatures, typically, upto +/-100 degree Celsius.
Research Areas in Mechanical Design and Development for Optical
I5 Sub Area
Payloads (SAC)
Design and Development of vibration isolation system with hybrid D-struts for
space payloads (SAC)
This research work focuses on the design and development of actively controlled
D-struts (three parameter vibration isolators) for space payload of mass up to 100 Kgs.
The three parameter vibration isolators, which are also called D-struts (dual struts), are
low frequency vibration isolators which are better absorbers as well as better isolators
I5.1 as compared to conventional spring-mass-damper (two parameter) vibration isolators.
In the D-strut isolator the damper is elastically connected, due to which it offers 40
dB/decade roll-off in the isolation region as compared to 20 dB/decade roll-off of two
parameter isolator; while maintain the absorbing capacity in the transmissibility region.
Hybrid D-struts consist of an active actuation element to control and suppress the
vibration loads. The design of a single D-strut is independent of the payload mass as
opposed to the conventional isolator which are designed for a particular payload mass.
I6 Sub Area Spacecraft Structure (URSC)
Vibration Attenuation using Metamaterials (URSC)
Vibro-acoustic Metamaterials are materials engineered and specifically designed to
control, manipulate, and mitigate vibrations and sound waves in ways that exceed the
performance of conventional materials. It consists of a base structure with multiple
resonators on it. The local resonators are to be strategically placed on the base structure
and they are to be tuned for a resonant frequency at which vibration attenuation is
I6.1
required. For spacecraft applications mass efficient and design optimisation of space
grade resonators to achieve vibration mitigation in a wider frequency band is required.
Vibro-acoustic metamaterials are an innovative solution in the vibration reduction
methods for space structures. Vibration attenuation is essential for the optimal
performance of critical subsystems in remote sensing, communication, and interplanetary
spacecraft.
Vibration Attenuation using Metamaterials (URSC)
Vibro-acoustic Metamaterials are materials engineered and specifically designed to
I6.2
control, manipulate, and mitigate vibrations and sound waves in ways that exceed the
performance of conventional materials. It consists of a base structure with multiple
194

--- Page 209 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
resonators on it. The local resonators are to be strategically placed on the base structure
and they are to be tuned for a resonant frequency at which vibration attenuation is
required. For spacecraft applications mass efficient and design optimisation of space
grade resonators to achieve vibration mitigation in a wider frequency band is required.
Vibro-acoustic metamaterials are an innovative solution in the vibration reduction
methods for space structures. Vibration attenuation is essential for the optimal
performance of critical subsystems in remote sensing, communication, and interplanetary
spacecraft.
Multi-scale Modelling of Structural Components (URSC)
Multi-scale modelling is a methodology in which multiple models at different scales
are used simultaneously to describe a system. Conventional structural analysis
considered homogenized material properties. However to account for heterogeneity,
it is essential to develop analytical models to a scale lower than the conventional
I6.3 material characteristics estimation. Objective of the work is to develop analytical
model for capturing heterogeneity and anisotropy in microscale. Conversion of micro
scale to macro scale for incorporating as localized homogeneity. Algorithm to convert
micro to macro material models. Software to map / transfer the localized property to
conventional FE model. Finally, macro level results to be translated to micro level by
means of localisation technique.
Design and development of Lattice structures for Space applications (URSC)
The lattice structure consists of helical and hoop ribs intersecting each other in a
regular pattern. The ribs provide both membrane and bending stiffness of the structure.
It is important that the ribs are made by continuous filament winding and have a
unidirectional structure demonstrating high specific strength and stiffness. These
I6.4
advantages mostly relate to the unidirectional nature of the grids in a lattice and the
one-step manufacturing process that allows for the integration of all the structural
features in a single process, saving cost and time. Design and development of Tertiary
and Secondary structural members will be carried out to gain confidence. Successful
progress may lead to develop an efficient Primary Structure.
Development of Self-healing Composites (URSC)
Micro cracks, de-bonds, de-lamination in composites due to changes in environmental
conditions or due to external forces like debris can be life limiting problem in space. Self
healing or autonomic healing is a way to address this problem which can effectively
I6.5
extend the life of structure with better structural integrity. A suitable self healing
method involving development of suitable materials and manufacturing techniques to
be developed and demonstrated for satellite structural applications.
195

--- Page 210 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Development of CNT based multifunctional nano-composite laminates for
structural, thermal and electrical applications (URSC)
To develop multifunctional nano-composite material for spacecraft structural
applications. CNT based nano-composite improve thermal and electrical conductivity
I6.6
of composite material along with higher stiffness and strength. At present this is still a
challenge to be realized for practical applications. The objective is to realize space grade
composite prepregs with low density CNTs paving way for light weight prepregs with
enhanced structural and thermal properties.
Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) of Spacecraft structural members (URSC)
To develop damage detection and quantification methods for typical damages in
spacecraft structural members made of composite and or honeycomb sandwich. This
includes damage to material and failure of sandwich embedment / structural joints,
I6.7
theoretical and experimental studies on damage detection using guided wave using
PZT sensors / Fiber optic sensors and experimental demonstration of implementation of
above methods on Spacecraft structural members with sensors, actuators and necessary
acquisition, data processing and instrumentation.
Analytical Modeling Direct Field Acoustic Testing (DFAT) to estimate acoustic and
structural responses (URSC)
Spacecraft has a few sub-systems that are critical for acoustic loads and the design
is primarily to withstand the loads. Those sub-systems needs to be qualified for the
expected acoustic loads. The qualification can be performed in diffused acoustic field
in a reverberation chamber or in direct acoustic field. The Direct Field Acoustic Testing is
emerging technique in aerospace industries. This technique is handy, as the test setup
is portable and there is a scope for response limiting for critical components. However
achieving the required Sound Pressure Level (SPL) in direct field is a challenging task. The
I6.8
achievable SPL depends on the test setup like characteristics of Speakers, Sub-woofers &
Horn, its position and arrangements and also the test specimen (spacecraft/sub-system)
dimensions.
Considering the test setup details, expected SPL at multiple locations for the initial test
setup around the specimen needs to be estimated. The structural responses on the
specimen for the test frequency range needs to be estimated and the results needs to be
test correlated. Objective of the analytical model development is to predict the sound
pressure levels around the test specimen and predict the structural responses at the test
specimen/spacecraft sub-systems during DFAT.
SMART materials like piezoelastic, electrostrictive and magnetostrictive materials
(URSC)
I6.9
There are several applications in which the vibrations to be reduced. Development of
active isolator is one of the aims. In some applications large actuating force needs to
196

--- Page 211 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
be applied. There are cases where the shape control need to be achieved. These can be
achieved by employing the above materials in suitable manner. The collaboration is in
working with such materials.
Inflated structure for Space application (URSC)
Recent Technological advantages have presented a new possibility to the space
community with ultra light Inflatable structures. These can be used for solar sails,
balloons, for large light weight antenna, space habitats etc. The term inflatable structure
indicates that a compact configuration will be launched into space and then deployed
I6.10
by pressurization using a gas or other means to its full intended form. For some of the
applications, rigidization of an inflatable structure is necessary whereby; following
deployment via inflation, the structure is physically rigidized to the point where it will
maintain its intended shape without reliance on continued pressurization and will be
capable of taking load.
Development theoretical models for prediction of response to acoustic excitation
(BEM, SEA) (URSC)
Estimation of responses to acoustic excitation at low frequencies are carried out using
I6.11 Boundary Element Method (BEM). For estimating the responses at higher order modes,
Statistical energy Analysis (SEA) is used. Significant amount of work in this direction
is already carried out. But there are still some differences between such predicted
responses and the experimentally seen responses. Need to fill this gap.
Image processing techniques (ultrasonics, thermography, speckle interferometry)
(URSC)
Composite and honeycomb sandwich panels are widely used in spacecraft. The quality
I6.12 is assessed through NDT techniques such as ultrasonics, thermography, and speckle
interferometry. They are image based techniques. Some of the images need further
processing to reveal the defects. The work is to develop image processing techniques /
algorithms such that the defects are revealed.
Estimation of micro-vibration and its mitigation techniques (URSC)
Micro-vibrations are generated in the spacecraft while in orbit. Estimation of these
disturbances is essential. Development of mathematical models to realistically estimate
I6.13
these disturbances are being investigated. Techniques other than finite element based
are looked up on. Once the models are reliable ways to mitigate, passive or active, also
need to be addressed.
Development of theoretical models for prediction of response to high frequency
shock (spectral element, wave propagation techniques, Statistical energy analysis)
I6.14 (URSC)
The high frequency shock responses can be estimated using spectral elements / wave
propagation techniques / Statistical Energy Analysis. Some amount of work in this
197

--- Page 212 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
direction is already carried out. Several spectral elements including for honeycomb
sandwich construction are developed. Responses are determined using wave
propagation techniques. But still there are unresolved issues. Looking for collaboration
in these works.
Unconventional manufacturing technique for composites (URSC)
Autoclave processing is normally done and it needs large autoclaves and is costly. VARTM
I6.15 is also being used for specific applications. New processing techniques are being evolved
which are of out of Autoclave. Looking for other techniques for specific applications that
will benefit compared to autoclave processing.
Curing induced deformation and stress in composites (URSC)
Curing process used for the manufacturing of composite structures results in built-in
stresses. This results in shape deformations. The work involves understanding of curing
I6.16
stresses, their mathematical modelling, experimental verification and ways to reduce
them. Some amount of work is already carried out, some specific development is looked
up on.
Articulated Boom Deployment Mechanism (URSC)
Articulated booms are a crucial component of many satellite systems, serving a variety of
functions from deploying solar arrays to positioning antennas and scientific instruments.
The boom is typically made of light-weight materials such as aluminium or CFRP tubes,
and is stored in a compact configuration during launch to minimize its size and weight.
The main challenge is the need for precise control over the deployment and positioning
of the boom.
Articulated boom mechanism consists of an articulated boom on which various
appendages and spacecraft can be assembled and deployed away from spacecraft. The
I6.17
boom will have rotational degree of freedom at joints. Depending on the requirement
the boom can be segmented into multiple arms. Each arm is connected to other with
single degree of freedom joint along with a dual Gimbal or pointing mechanism as per
requirement.
Articulated boom mechanism is a 4 DOF system configured with 4 drive actuators to
deploy the reflector 2 meters away from Spacecraft. It is configurable and modular
design which can be scaled to meet users requirements. Full scale reflector deployment
with Boom and Hold down is already demonstrated. Flight worthy product is under
fabrication for qualification.
I7 Sub Area Spacecraft Mechanism (URSC)
Autonomous Capture and Rigidization Mechanism (ACRM) (URSC)
I7.1 In On Orbit Servicing (OOS) Mission, a new technology needs to be developed for
servicing Satellites with capabilities of capturing non-cooperative target to increase the
198

--- Page 213 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
life of existing satellites in GEO/LEO. The basic idea is to provide life extension to an
aging non co-operative spacecraft (Client) and still be able to utilize its payload services.
Servicer spacecraft equipped with capture technology approaches towards the client
spacecraft nearing end of life with low velocity using closed loop guidance with proximity
sensors in the loop to enhance its life.
ACRM facilitates to capture, rigidize and release an existing, non-co-operative, client
spacecraft in LEO/GEO Orbit, using a gripper mechanism mounted on robotic arm of
a Servicer spacecraft. Servicer spacecraft to possess the ability to capture and release
multiple times, allowing it to service multiple satellites.
The major constituents of the system include a six DOF Robotic arm, the Gripper
mechanism, Rigidisation mechanism and real time tracking and kinematics software.
Sun Shield Deployment Mechanism (URSC)
Future missions envisages payloads at the SUN-EARTH L2 point to obtain high precision
simultaneous spectroscopy of astronomical point sources such as starts and other
localized object which will be a step forward in our quest to understand the universe
and its origins. The payload requires a thermal background of 50K-100K to meet the
science requirement of photon noise dominated observations. A deployable sunshield
is meant to provide this background requirement.
I7.2
Deployable sun-shield mechanism is being designed and developed to protect
instruments/ payloads from sun light and keep them at extremely low temperatures. This
mechanism should rigidly hold, deploy and tension the sunshield to provide required
optical properties. Presently folding pattern is being studied on the scaled model.
The large Sunshield is required to be deployed to keep the Infrared space telescope
based payload under cold conditions (Temp = 80K) and to be positioned between the
spacecraft mainframe structure and payload.
18m Un-Furlable Antenna (18m UFA) (URSC)
Spacecrafts required for Geo mobile communication are configured with an Unfurlable
Antenna of diameter up to 18m. Due to its large size and limitation of the launcher
envelope, it is essential to keep appendages in the stowed condition during launch and
is deployed in the orbit. In order to position the UFA at its required optical position, long
I7.3 booms / large arms are required. It is practically not feasible to realize a boom / arm with
lengths between 10 m to 15 m. Hence multiple booms / arms are required to position the
UFA at its optical position. Thus there is a need to develop a novel hinge mechanism to
deploy the booms. Also, the hinge has to be compact and should be capable of holding
the UFA at its required position and orientation with respect to the spacecraft during
spacecraft manoeuvres.
199

--- Page 214 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
The development of 18m Unfurlable Antenna uses the concept of the 6m UFA for the
reflector deployment, which is flown in GSAT-6 spacecraft. The boom deployment
mechanism is a new development with a new novel hinge design.
The UFA in stowed configuration is approximately 1m in diameter and 5m in height. The
reflector is predominantly made of carbon composites. The structural elements of the
reflector are made of high modulus carbon composite tubes and the reflector surface is
made of cable net supported metallic reflective mesh.
Rover Descent Mechanism for Heavy/Large Rovers (URSC)
The rover descent mechanism is being designed to facilitate the controlled deployment
of large, heavy rover weighing up to 400 kg from the top deck of lander-craft to ground.
Configured with 2 arms secondary panel and 4 bar linkage, the mechanism enables
a deployment angle of more than 150º to transfer the rover from top deck to ground
by achieving a vertical descent up to 3.4 meters. Arms of secondary panel is adaptable
to challenging terrains, capable of safely deploying the rover on uneven surfaces with
I7.4
boulders up to 300 mm in size. Mechanism is planned to be used on Chandrayan-5
mission.
Rover descent mechanism comprises of primary and secondary panel deployment which
are initially held down in stowed configuration. Mechanism initially deploys Secondary
panel to form a ramp for transferring rover from top deck to ground. Mechanism is
configured with cable-controlled deployment of four bar linkage mechanism to transfer
rover from a height of up to 3.4 m to Ground.
Deployable Langer Leg Mechanism (URSC)
For exploring and conducting in-situ experiments a lander craft is required which travels
along with the propulsion module as piggy back and gets separated from the propulsion
module. The lander craft then travels towards the moon and places the rover/payloads
on the lunar surface for scientific operations. The lander carries the scientific payloads
on the lunar surface giving information about the moon soil properties, composition of
the rock & minerals.
I7.5
The Chandraayan-2 & 3 also have a legged type lander mechanism. In Chandrayaan-2
&3, the lander legs are fixed in configuration. However, for CH-4 & CH-5, a deployable
lander leg mechanism is being developed to get wider foot print for better stability.
Deployable Lander Leg mechanism is designed and demonstrated for soft landing
on Lunar surface for 2000kg large Lander. The mechanism is envisaged with compact
stowing of lander leg mechanism towards the vertical deck for better stowed stiffness
and has provisions for honeycomb damper for lateral load attenuation.
200

--- Page 215 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Radial Fold Solar Array Mechanism (URSC)
The design envisages development of Light Weight, Low Volume, High Specific Power
and scalable Solar Array Mechanism for LEO, GEO, Interplanetary and Planetary Landing
Missions. Radial fold solar array mechanism overcomes the difficulties posed in the
rolling of the flexible solar cell populated substrate.
The Radial Fold solar array mechanism is a novel deployment mechanism designed to
meet the increasing energy needs of spacecraft. This mechanism deploys the solar array
blanket with solar cells bonded on it and supported by radial spars. These spars are
connected to C-channels which are interconnected with geared links. The array deploys
I7.6
through a single-axis rotation mechanism, where the panels unfold from a compact,
stowed configuration into a circular arrangement.
Key features of RFSA include its use of gears and links for deploying in a circular accordian
fashion, its ability to fold into a compact configuration for launch, and its capacity to
expand into a large surface area once in space that can generate more power. The primary
objective of developing RFSA is to achieve compact stowage volume on spacecraft, high
specific energy and low shock deployment mechanism. Its practical applications range
from powering small satellites to large space stations, highlighting its versatility and
adaptability for various mission requirements.
Sample Collection and Positioning Mechanism (URSC)
Soil Collection and Positioning Mechanism (SCPM) is two, orthogonal, axis linear drive
mechanism. It is part of ISRO Sample Analysis Package (ISAP). ISAP consist of a Raman
Spectrometer along with SCPM to analyze the Lunar soil sample delivered by the sample
handling system of REsource Investigating Water Analyzer (REIWA) onboard CH-5 Rover.
I7.7 The Sample handling system of REIWA will deliver the Lunar soil sample along with the
sample holder to the ISAP. One of the objectives of SCPM is to collect the Lunar soil
sample along with the sample holder delivered by REIWA. Once the sample is successfully
collected by SCPM, it requires to be placed under Raman spectrometer of ISAP. Hence,
the second important objective of the SCPM is to position the Lunar soil sample under
the Raman Spectrometer at required location.
Auger Mechanism (URSC)
Sub-surface sampling is planned to be conducted in Chandrayaan – 4 using a deep
drilling mechanism (DDM). It is planned to carry out drilling to a depth of ~ 1m below
the lunar surface and collect sample core. The cored sample needs to preserve depth
I7.8 information for detailed study on Earth.
A 1 m rotary hollow drill for collecting lunar sub-surface soil sample is proposed. The
hollow drill enables the mechanism to collect lunar soil samples within the drill and
subsequently push the sample out for return to earth and for further analysis. The drill
along with the mechanism is assembled on the lander on a drill descent mechanism to
201

--- Page 216 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
lower or lift the drill and the mechanism is held on the deck by hold down mechanism.
The drill consists of a rotating hollow spiral auger, two concentric & stationary inner
tubes, a cover mechanism and a rotating drill bit assembled at the bottom of the drill.
The soil sample is collected within the inner tube of the two stationary tubes.
The outer auger is translated downward/upward with the platform without rotation,
by a lead screw mechanism. The rotary motion of the drill is provided using a geared
mechanism; both rotary motion and feed for drill are independent of each other. The
drill is lowered into the lunar surface using the drill feed and rotary mechanism. The soil
samples are collected inside the drill in discrete 25 cm samples.
I8 Sub Area Spacecraft Thermal Systems (URSC)
Design and Development of Oil-Free Compressor for High-Temperature Application
in Microgravity (URSC)
Vapor compression heat pumps have the potential to meet the future requirement
of thermal management in large spacecraft due to its ability to achieve high heat
flux dissipation and precise temperature control. Compressor plays a crucial role in a
vapor compression heat pump system. In terrestrial heat pump systems, oil-lubricated
compressors are most commonly utilized. These compressors depend on gravity to
ensure efficient oil circulation within crucial components like Piston, bearings, seals, and
other contact surfaces, as well as effectively manage the refrigerant/oil mixture in two-
phase heat exchangers.
Lubricating Oil tends to separate from the refrigerant in most terrestrial oil-lubricated
I8.1
compressors-based refrigeration systems using oil gas separators with the help of
gravity. However, in microgravity environments, the absence of gravity poses challenges
for gas-liquid separation, which can compromise cooling efficiency of heat exchanger
and also inadequate lubrication can lead to system failure at critical areas and at crucial
times. To address these challenges associated with gas liquid separation in oil lubricated
compressor for microgravity application, Oil-free compressors are desired.
Development Requirements:
• Design and Development of an oil- free compressor for microgravity applications
• Fabrication and testing of a prototype compressor
• Integration of variable speed control for adaptive thermal management.
• Performance evaluation under high temperature conditions.
Development of Consumable based (evaporation / sublimation) cooling system for
space environment (URSC)
I8.2 Passive thermal cooling technology using sublimators is suitable for missions with
volume constraints and short mission durations. Sublimators utilize water, a consumable,
whose high enthalpy of sublimation can result in significant heat rejection. It works on
202

--- Page 217 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
the principle of sublimation of ice into water vapour into the vacuum of space. Liquid
water from on board reservoir is supplied to and freezes in a porous membrane. Heat
load from spacecraft electronics or payload provides the enthalpy of sublimation of ice,
causing it to change to vapor, as the ice front is exposed to environment through pores.
This will provide the required cooling of systems
Development Requirements:
• Design and Development of consumable based cooling system for space environment
• Mathematical modelling
• Fabrication and performance evaluation of a prototype model
In-Situ Resource-Based Insulation for interplanetary missions (URSC)
Thermal insulation is critical for maintaining temperature stability in spacecraft, rovers,
and planetary habitats while minimizing power consumption. The use of in-situ
resources for insulation can significantly reduce reliance on Earth-supplied materials,
enhancing the sustainability of long-duration missions. One potential approach is CO₂-
based gas-gap insulation for Mars missions, which leverages the local atmospheric
CO₂ to create an effective thermal barrier for rovers and habitats. Another promising
method is regolith-based insulation for both lunar and Mars missions, which not only
provides thermal protection but also serves as a radiation shield. This study will involve
computational fluid dynamics and thermal modeling to evaluate the effectiveness of
I8.3 these insulation techniques under planetary conditions. Experimental testing will focus
on the thermal performance of CO₂ gas-gap insulation under varying pressures and
the insulation capabilities of compressed or sintered regolith. The possibility of hybrid
insulation concepts that combine CO₂ gas-gap insulation with regolith-based shielding
will also be explored to maximize thermal and radiation protection while optimizing
mass and power requirements. This research aims to develop self-sustaining, energy-
efficient insulation solutions for future planetary exploration missions.
Development Requirements:
• Thermal mathematical modelling
• Experimental evaluation of insulation capabilities
J Area Systems Reliability and Safety (SAC)
J1 Sub Area Research Areas in Material and Process Development (SAC)
Development of Nanoparticle-Enhanced MWCNT reinforcement in PEEK Matrix
Hybrid Nano Composites for Space Antenna Applications (SAC)
Space missions have strict weight limits for payloads. Antennae used in space mission
J1.1
must be designed to be as lightweight as possible to minimize the overall weight of the
antenna system. Structural elements including Ribs are generally made up of metals
which makes them heavy in weight. Development of light weight structure is one of the
203

--- Page 218 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
major challenges involved in the realisation of the antenna. Polymer nanocomposites
are materials that incorporate nanoparticles into a polymer matrix material to enhance
the properties of the resulting composite. These nanocomposites often show enhanced
strength and stiffness compared to their micro or macro counterparts. The inclusion of
nanoparticles can significantly improve the mechanical, thermal, electrical, or optical
properties of the nanocomposite. A thorough investigation on characterization of these
nanocomposites could position them as viable candidates for structural elements and
Antenna ribs, potentially leading to reductions in both weight and cost.
Scope:
The scope of the proposed research includes thorough analysis and characterization
of the developed nanocomposite with the desired properties that could make them
suitable candidates for radial rib antennae fabrication for space missions. The properties
that are to be taken into consideration may also include-
• Resistance to Corrosion and Flammability
• Mechanical Strength and Thermal Stability
• Microstructural Analysis
Anticipated Benefits:
Use of nanoparticles into a polymer matrix material shall ensure better mechanical,
electrical and thermal properties, at lesser weight than metal which shall benefit it in
incorporating more transponders and subsequently effectiveness of payload.
Weldability of Additively Manufactured (AM) 3D Printed AlSi10Mg Alloy (SAC)
The Additive Manufacturing (AM) process in which feedstock material which is in the
form of powder, wire and sheet; is converted into a dense metallic object by melting
and solidification with the use of various heat sources types like Arc, Plasma, Beam-
Laser and Electron Beam and Ultrasonic Vibration in case of sheets. By now use of the
welding process for additive manufacturing is common, use of arc welding heat sources
like GMAW, GTAW, Plasma, and SAW are reported for additive manufacturing. The most
widely used heat source for additive manufacturing is a LASER. The Laser Powder Bed
J1.2 Fusion (LPBF) process is widely reported with additive manufacturing of complex parts
in small batches. One of the limitations from a commercial perspective is the size of the
build chamber. Different elements of one component can be manufactured separately
and welded subsequently. Thus, the size of the build chamber can be solved if additively
manufactured parts are welded. Overall work done in the domain of welding of additively
manufactured components is limited. Based on the above research gap, the current
proposal objective is the Welding of AM-AM, AM-Wrought, and AM to Cast using solid-
state and fusion welding processes (Friction Stir Welding, GTAW & LBW) for AlSi10Mg will
be investigated.
204

--- Page 219 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Scope:
The scope of the project is to deliver the data set on behaviour of AM welded joints
using fusion and solid state under different space environments. Thermal shock,
Thermo Vacuum, Humidity tests will be investigated and its mechanical & metallurgical
comparison with normal joints.
Anticipated Benefits:
Large complex designs can be developed using additive manufacturing process and
subsequent welding process developed, this will help in mass optimization higher
strength, manufacturing time reduction and meeting intricate design requirement of
space payloads. This will be helpful in development of up to C Band Feed Cluster.
Development of CNT based blackest-black material for blackbody (SAC)
SAC is involved in the development of optical remote sensing payloads. These payloads
involves space borne cameras working in infra-red (IR) and visible band. These
on-board IR cameras do need in-orbit high-precision calibration regularly after a certain
time period. The calibration is basically done with respect to a blackbody surface having
ultra-high emissivity (>99.5%). The blackbody typically need to possess excellent
temperature stability and uniformity along with ultra-high emissivity. Of late, Carbon
Nano Tubes (CNTs) based coatings have provided remarkable light trapping properties in
comparison with conventional ultra- black coatings. An array of ‘vertically aligned nano
tubes’ creates a forest-like structure of aligned, equally-spaced, high-aspect-ratio carbon
nanotubes. The spacing of the tubes is such that virtually all of the light arriving at the
surface enters the spaces between the tubes and is absorbed after multiple reflections
between neighbouring tubes.
Scope:
J1.3
The scope of the proposed research includes development of vertically aligned CNT on
the Aluminium substrate. This includes: -
• Development of the technology for growing the vertically aligned CNTs on electrically
conductive substrate preferably Aluminium alloy.
• Surface emissivity performance evaluation and validation in MWIR and LWIR spectral
regions (3-14 micro-meter wavelength)
Space qualification, including shock, vibration, thermal cycling, outgassing, no particle
fallout (PFO) and no significant mass loss.
Anticipated Benefits:
• Indigenous development of ultra-emissive black body surfaces.
A customizable high quality blackbody source for in-orbit calibration for all IR based
space missions.
205

--- Page 220 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
J2 Sub Area Research Areas in Quality Control of Electronic Systems (SAC)
Defect Dataset Augmentation using Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) (SAC)
Scope:
Deep learning algorithms have vast application in the field of automated inspection of
electronics assembly. However, there capability are limited by the scarcity of training
data. Defects datasets of electronics assembly exhibit Long Tail effect, i.e. the number
of defect classes are more but the number of images in each class is less. To overcome
these challenges traditional Image augmentation techniques such as image rotation,
brightness/contrast variation, random cropping of images are incorporated but with
limited success. Generative Adversarial Network have gained interest in the recent past
due to their robust application in image augmentation techniques.
J2.1 • The purpose of this project is to explore the application of different GAN architectures
such as Conditional GANs, CycleGAN and Wasserstien GAN to generate high quality
synthetic data of defects observed in electronics assemblies.
• To study the modifications that can be implemented in the GAN models to best suit
the generation of data pertaining to electronic assemblies.
• Generate synthetic data that closely resemble the real data and augment the defect
dataset to train deep learning model to automate the inspection process.
Anticipated Benefits:
Image augmentation using GAN will help in developing a more robust defect dataset
that could be used to train deep learning models that can detect defects in electronics
assemblies with high accuracy.
Automated High-Precision Measurement System for Substrates with DXF
Comparison and Tolerance Analysis (SAC)
In space industry, precision and reliability are paramount. The substrates used in
subsystems require precise dimensional verification to ensure optimal performance.
This research aims to develop an advanced automated measurement system tailored
for the substrates used in satellite electronic subsystems.
Scope:
J2.2
 Input Handling:
• Upload high-resolution images of substrates in standard formats (e.g., JPEG, PNG).
• Import DXF files to define reference dimensions and design patterns.
 Image Pre-processing:
• Apply advanced noise reduction and contrast enhancement for clean inputs.
• Correct lens distortion, perspective skew, and align images for consistent
measurement.
206

--- Page 221 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
 Object Detection and Measurement:
• Automatically detect multiple features on substrates, including length, width and
other geometric details.
• Accurately segment and measure features on complex or overlapping patterns.
• Maintain measurement precision within ±3 micrometres using robust calibration
techniques.
 Tolerance Management:
• Provide an interface for users to define allowable tolerances for each measurement
parameter.
• Highlight measurements that fall outside the defined tolerance range.
• Enable batch application of tolerances for similar patterns or dimensions.
 Comparison with DXF Design:
• Extract reference dimensions from the DXF file.
• Compare measured dimensions with the DXF specifications.
• Report deviations, highlighting values exceeding tolerance limits.
 User Interface:
• Design a user-friendly platform to upload images, import DXF files, and define
tolerances.
• Display annotated images with measurements and color-coded indicators for
dimensions within or outside tolerance limits.
 Reporting:
• Generate detailed Word or PDF reports, including: Annotated images of patterns
with measured dimensions, Tabular comparisons of measured versus reference
dimensions with deviation and tolerance analysis, Summary of compliance with
defined tolerances.
 Calibration and Accuracy:
• Incorporate a calibration process using known scale markers.
• Ensure system maintains ±3 micrometre accuracy under defined operational
conditions.
Anticipated Benefits:
 Efficiency: Automates measurement, reducing inspection time, Fatigue and costs;
with micrometre-level accuracy, meeting stringent quality demands and delivering
reliability.
207

--- Page 222 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Quality Inspection of RF/Electronics Hardware using Artificial Intelligence/Machine
Learning Techniques (SAC)
Scope:
Defects in electronics hardware such as PCBs are characterized by smaller size, more
diverse types and more complex features. As such many of the existing Deep learning
algorithms cannot be readily applied to the task of detecting defects in electronics
hardware. The aim of this project is thus to develop deep learning algorithms for
detection of defects in relatively complex electronic/RF hardware trained on a defect
dataset comprising of defect images taken at various magnification levels with diverse
background and varying illumination level.
• Develop a deep neural network based algorithm to identify defects in electronics/RF
J2.3
hardware in real time as well as in offline scenario.
• Developed algorithm must be agnostic to the magnification level of the image,
background of the electronic board, illumination intensity and size & location of
defects and must be robust enough to identify micro defects with complex features.
• Explore the application of Transformer model and attention mechanism in the
development of algorithm.
Anticipated Benefits:
Automating the quality inspection of RF/electronic hardware will reduce manual
intervention and subjectivity. Improve the turnaround time by reducing the time
required for inspection.
Design & Development of Automation for Deep Space Extravehicular
J3 Sub Area
Activities (SAC)
Long duration human space missions involve several maintenance tasks which need
to be performed at regular intervals. These include solar panel inspection, structural
integrity checks and other anomaly monitoring tasks. Extra-vehicular activities (EVA)
require astronauts to exit the crew cabin in order to access the maintenance sites, which
may be tens of meters away from the habitation zone. Owing to harsh sub-zero thermal
and vacuum conditions in deep space, any sub-system failure while carrying out the
J3.1 above mentioned tasks, is extremely dangerous and may result in loss of human life.
The present research proposes to explore the feasibility of novel remote controlled
automation techniques which could substitute the astronauts in EVA by a customized
robot mounted on a maneuverable platform which would travel to the maintenance site.
This would ensure human safety in addition to system reliability, during extra-vehicular
activities.
208

--- Page 223 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Scope:
The scope of the proposed research includes design and thorough analysis of customized
robot for automation of deep space extravehicular activities. This includes -
• Establishing optimal control laws for various manoeuvre scenarios.
• Simulating/ prototyping ground based pose stability and robotic arm maneuverability.
• Simulating/ prototyping air based pose stability and robotic arm maneuverability.
• Explore and document safe propulsion technologies for robotic automation.
Targeted outcome:
The following are the expected deliverables for the proposed research.
• Demonstration and delivery of fully functional robot working on ground without
human intervention.
• Demonstration and delivery of fully functional robot working in air without human
intervention.
• Design, thorough analysis and simulation of fully functional robot mounted on a
maneuverable platform for deep space usage.
Anticipated Benefits:
• Such Respond Proposals shall be useful in realisation of BAS (Bharat Antriksha Station),
which ISRO has proposed.
• This will reduce and may eliminate astronauts working directly in harsh sub-zero
thermal and vacuum conditions in deep space, which is extremely dangerous and
may result in loss of human life.
This will also increase system reliability during extra-vehicular activities by substituting
direct human intervention by machines.
K Area Cyber Services & Information Technology (SAC)
K1 Sub Area Research Areas in Cyber Services and Information Security (SAC)
Development of AI-based IT-Services (SAC)
Scope:
• To develop a solution to automate IT-Service management activities using AI/ML
techniques to support predictive maintenance.
• To develop an AI-powered virtual assistants to provide IT-support and maintenance
services to end-users.
K1.1
• To develop an end-to-end ticketing system for all IT-services support and maintenance.
Anticipated benefits:
• Effective and efficient dissemination of IT-services and provide insights &
recommendations to improve the overall end-user satisfaction.
• Aid in enhanced troubleshooting, auditing and real time monitoring.
209

--- Page 224 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Development of Botnet Detection & DNS Security Solution (SAC)
Scope:
• To develop techniques for identify and detect botnet activity on a network using AI/
ML techniques.
K1.2 • Implementation of various AL/ML detection techniques namely, host-based,
behavioural-based and signature-based.
• Implementation of GUI Dashboard for botnet activity alerts.
Anticipated benefits:
• Aid in monitoring and maintenance of the overall cyber services.
Development of Botnet Detection & DNS Security Solution (SAC)
Scope :
• To develop a distributed & scalable Generic Log Analyser for collecting, storing,
analysing and reporting the network devices, servers, desktops and software
application events recorded as part of respective logs of different formats using AI/
ML techniques.
• The large data sets for different log types will be analysed using data mining
techniques without changing the core algorithms.
K1.3
• Implementation of GUI Dashboard for reporting the network events recorded as part
of various server logs.
Anticipated benefits:
• GUI Dashboard for alert on specific events.
• The developed software will be utilised for the purpose of system auditing and
performance improvement activities.
• Aid in monitoring and maintenance of the overall cyber services.
Establishing a Software Defined Network (SDN) (SAC)
Scope:
• To establish a Secure & Scalable SDN Infrastructure.
• To integrate SDN with the existing network infrastructure and protocols.
• To develop standard programmability options for configuring and managing the
K1.4
network infrastructure.
Anticipated benefits:
• Enabling centralised management and orchestration of network resources.
• Aid in faster troubleshooting, increased scalability and real time monitoring.
210

--- Page 225 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Development of AI-powered Email Security (SAC)
Scope:
• To analyse emails from a human perspective, understanding context and intent
behind every message.
• To use Natural language processing (NLP) techniques that can detect sophisticated
phishing attacks, spear phishing, and other types of email-borne malware that
traditional security measures often miss
K1.5 • To perform sentiment analysis on emails to identify emotional cues that may indicate
a potential threat or malicious intent.
• To implement enhanced authentication which uses machine learning algorithms to
analyse sender behavior, IP addresses, and other factors to verify the authenticity of
incoming emails.
Anticipated benefits:
• Handling the cases where traditional security measures often miss
• Enhancing security posture of Email which is the most accessible and critical IT service
Active Directory (AD) Security and Threat Detection (SAC)
Scope:
• Passwordless authentication
• Real-time monitoring and detection of suspicious activity within AD using AI/ML,
such as tracking admin actions, policy modifications, group membership changes,
K1.6
abnormal logon patterns, privilege escalations, identity based attacks, etc.
• Infrastructure as Code for AD: Managing AD configurations and policies.
Anticipated benefits:
• Aid in the security of Active Directory.
Development of Blockchain Identity Management (SAC)
Scope:
• Development of a decentralised identity management based on blockchain based
K1.7
solutions.
Anticipated benefits:
• Aid for managing user identities in distributed environment.
Development of Data Analytics in Data Transfer and File Share Services (SAC)
Scope:
K1.8 • Data Analytics in Data Transfer Service such as average download size, total data
transfer within a day, types of transferred files, etc and File Share Services such as
logged in users, file share analysis, user quota usage, public/private shares, etc.
211

--- Page 226 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Anticipated benefits:
• Aid for monitoring and usage analysis in the data transfer and file share services.
• GUI dashboard for the monitoring and management of services.
Design Vehicle Monitoring Surveillance System (SAC)
Scope:
• To design a Vehicle Monitoring System (VMS) which shall track vehicle in-and-out
movements using existing CCTV Surveillance System within SAC campuses.
K1.9
• System should record license plate numbers and store data in a database.
Anticipated Benefits:
• Help real-time reporting on vehicle.
• Help in supporting emergency response and incident investigation efforts.
Design Head Count Surveillance System (SAC)
Scope:
• To design a Headcount System using existing CCTV Surveillance System
• It shall be integrated with existing Biometric Access Control System.
K1.10
• It should count number of staff entering & exiting the BACS peripheral gates.
Anticipated Benefits:
• Help real-time number of staff inside SAC Campuses.
• Store head count data in a database for further processing.
Other cyber services and information security related topics includes (SAC)
• Breach detection and response solutions
• Cryptography and cryptoanalysis
• Indigenous hardware-based VPN
• Kiosk for Virus/malware sanitisation
• Malware Sandbox
• Network Admission Control
K1.11 • Security of air-gap networks
• Secured data flow between different trust networks
• Secure cloud techniques
• System Forensics
• Perimeter and endpoint security
• Progressive Web App (PWA) Service
• Zero day vulnerability detection
• Zero Trust Network Access
212

--- Page 227 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
K2 Sub Area Research Areas in Multimedia Technology and IT Services (SAC)
Development of AI-powered DocBot Solution (SAC)
Scope:
• Create a chatbot that reads rule books like Service Rules, purchase manual, office
orders, etc and answer the user’s queries.
• The system should extract and organise content from rule books using document
K2.1 parsing and NLP techniques.
• Use natural language understanding and contextual search to retrieve relevant
information, providing concise answers based on the user’s queries.
Anticipated Benefits:
• Help users in getting clarifications about Promotion / Review / Leave / Pay-Scales, etc.
• Help users to resolve their query related to indent, tender, procurement policy etc.
Development of AL/ML based automated Database Query System (Talk2DB) (SAC)
Scope:
• Software to generate SQL from natural language, evaluate results, and produce
reports/charts based on user requirement on-the-fly.
• NLP module to parse user queries and normalize text.
• SQL generation module to translate queries into equivalent SQL statements.
• Query evaluation module to execute SQL queries and provide performance feedback.
K2.2 • Reporting module to extract data and generate reports in various formats.
Anticipated Benefits:
• Users can interact with databases using an intuitive GUI.
• Users can quickly generate complex SQL queries without needing to code.
• Insightful reports and charts enable data-driven decision-making.
• Automated query evaluation reduces the risk of errors and improves query
performance.
• To simplify the database management tasks.
Development of Augmented & Virtual Reality System (SAC)
Scope:
• To develop immersive interfaces that simulate real-world environments.
• To develop overlapping digital information onto the real world for enhanced user
K2.3
experience with AI integration to support object recognition and tracking.
Anticipated benefits:
• To provide simulated and interactive experiences that reduces timeline and improves
overall user experience.
213

--- Page 228 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Other IT services and multimedia related topics includes (SAC)
• Immersive visualisation
K2.4 • e-Learning platform
• Animation technology
• Multimedia content generation
L Area Mission Control (URSC/IISU)
Reaction Sphere for S/C Attitude Control & Space Robotics
L1 Sub Area
Applications (URSC)
The growing demand for low-cost microsatellites and the upcoming deployment of LEO
mega constellations with high requirements on precision attitude control and pointing
will likely increase the need for development of high performance and low weight
attitude control devices. The conventional reaction wheels are capable of providing
single axial torque per device respectively uses a single axial motor. Therefore, it is
difficult to reduce the weight and size of a spacecraft since at least three wheels are
required to control three-axis attitude of a spacecraft.
Reaction sphere enables three-dimensional rotation of a spherical rotor and provides
three-dimensional torque so that mounting only one proposed device can be sufficient
to control three-axis attitude of a satellite. To achieve the same performance of three
reaction wheels, a reaction sphere is expected to consume less on-board resources
Reaction sphere is an iron ball covered with permanent magnets and held in position
with magnetic levitation through magnetic fields generated by a number of electric
coils. The sphere, acting as a rotor, is accelerated about any axis of rotation with a 3D
L1.1
motor.
• The magnetically suspended reaction sphere actuator is a type of angular momentum-
based actuator. It uses magnetic bearings to suspend a single reaction sphere in a
frictionless environment. The rotor is capable of rotating in any direction, providing
3-axis control of a spacecraft’s attitude. The rotor is suspended by a series of permanent
and electromagnetic poles that generate a magnetic field to levitate the sphere. The
stator can drive and tilt the rotor through various methods. The mechanism has the
unique capability of producing spherical angular momentum storage, which allows
for more efficient and precise attitude control.
Reaction spheres rotate spacecraft either with an equal-and-opposite torque about
their rotation axis when accelerated about that axis, similar to reaction wheels, or with
a more efficient gyroscopic torque used to reorient their rotation axis, similar to control
moment gyroscopes (CMGs).
214

--- Page 229 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Compared to conventional reaction wheels and CMGs, reaction spheres can potentially
generate higher torque and store more angular momentum for lower SWaP (Size, Weight,
and Power), lower pointing jitter, longer mission durations due to the elimination of
mechanical bearings and gimbal structures and the ability of the single reaction sphere
to rotate the s/c about multiple axes.
Involving many difficulties and challenges, reaction spheres are still promising actuators
in spacecraft attitude control for the benefits brought by the 4π rotation.
Reaction sphere has been used in robotics for spherical joints such as to mimic the
wrist. Furthermore, technologies driven by research and development of reaction
spheres also contribute to robotics and automatic controls where motions of joints
are required.
Reaction sphere can perform high torque maneuvers by rotating its spin axis while
maintaining a constant spin rate. In addition, the torques generated in the reaction
sphere around different axes are naturally decoupled, which will simplify the controller
design.
Requirements would be development of hardware and control algorithms as given
below.
Part 1: Realization of Hardware: Development of proto model of reaction sphere with
actuation system
• Geometry of the 3D motor on a magnetic bearing for the reaction sphere; In the ideal
case 8 permanent magnets for the rotor and 20 coils for the stator.
• The reaction sphere’s rotor can be accelerated about any desired axis and moved
in any direction continuously without any disruption using a 20-pole stator that
produces an 8-pole rotating field.
Part 2: Development of control strategy for microsatellite (100 kg class) attitude control
through dynamic modelling and simulation with reaction sphere actuator.
Advanced Guidance Navigation and Control for Elliptical Orbit
L2 Sub Area
rendezvous and Docking (URSC)
The project requires research on advanced guidance, navigation, and control (GNC)
strategies for rendezvous and docking (RvD) operations in elliptical orbits. The goal is to
develop robust, adaptive algorithms to handle the dynamic challenges associated with
L2.1
elliptical orbit environments, such as varying velocities, gravitational perturbations, and
increased orbital uncertainties.
215

--- Page 230 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
The research shall be conducted and demonstrated in two distinct phases:
1. Low Eccentricity Orbit Phase: Focus on developing and validating GNC algorithms
for elliptical orbits with low eccentricity. This phase aims to establish baseline control
strategies and navigation solutions that account for moderate orbital perturbations
and dynamic constraints.
2. High Eccentricity Orbit Phase: Extend the developed solutions to highly eccentric
orbits, where more significant variations in velocity and gravitational forces occur.
This phase will emphasize adaptive control techniques and real-time navigation for
precise trajectory correction and docking under extreme orbital conditions.
Key objectives include:
• Developing robust guidance algorithms to mitigate orbital perturbations.
• Designing adaptive control strategies for real-time trajectory correction.
• Formulating integrated solutions for accurate state estimation and navigation.
• Validating the methodologies through high-fidelity simulations testing.
The research outcome will contribute to critical space operations, including satellite
servicing, debris removal, and interplanetary mission rendezvous.
Design and Development of Soft Robot for Terrestrial Planetary Exploration (URSC)
Planetary exploration is one of the most challenging tasks in the field of space
exploration. In highly unstructured environments, soft robots can explore topographies
using structural deformation. NASA has developed a pop-up flat-foldable robot for
planetary surface detection. This robot can climb slopes or cross caves through folding
deformation, providing significant mobility advantages.
Traditional space robots primarily utilize rigid structures, resulting in limited degrees
of freedom, which restricts their operational capabilities. Soft robots are made from
compliant materials that are flexible and robust, making them ideal for tasks like
L2.2 grasping irregular objects, navigating rough terrain, and repairing equipment in space.
Even though they are suitable to interact with dynamic and unpredictable space
environments but, they should sustain low-gravity, ultrahigh vacuum environments,
withstand extreme temperatures and space radiation.
There is a need for the development of potential soft materials, identifying fabrication
methods, appropriate design/modelling schemes, actuation and suitable sensors and
control methods all in the frame work of soft robots.
Materials are the basis for the fabrication, actuation, and control of soft robots. The soft
materials used in conventional soft robots are often difficult to adapt to unstructured
216

--- Page 231 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
environments. Potential soft materials, such as liquid metal, temperature-resistant
elastomers, and smart nanostructured protective coatings, offer several feasible options
for future soft space robots.
Manufacturing of parts in the space industry is small in quantity and highly customized.
3D printing techniques have been used to manufacture soft sensors, soft actuators, and
even integrated soft robot systems. By precisely controlling the relative stiffness of each
local unit, 3D-printed soft robots can achieve programmable deformation. 4D printing
with extra time dimension, can fabricate structures that are time deformed using stimuli.
Design of soft robots is extremely complicated due to nonlinear materials and multi
physical field coupling. Soft robots with the ability to actively control stiffness allow for
adaptable and versatile interactions between robots and space environments.
Modelling has primarily focused on soft material modelling, deformation kinematic
modelling, and flexible structure contact dynamics. Establishing a constitutive model
for soft materials is the basis for understanding the kinematics of soft robots.
Actuation using energy sources such as electricity, heat, and light. Smart material
actuators have been used to actuate soft robots to perform tasks such as flight, crawling,
capturing, and transportation.
Flexible sensors have several advantages, including lightness, low energy consumption,
and adjustable mechanical properties, which make them easier to integrate in soft space
robots. Flexible sensors based on nanomaterials have been widely used to measure
suitable parameters for their control.
Control of soft robots can be classified into model-based and model-free methods
depending on whether the control system contains a mathematical model of the
controlled process.
The current proposal is for demonstrating a soft robot for planetary exploration as
terrestrial vehicle. The research should identify suitable material that meets the space
requirements, identify an appropriate fabrication method, define a design methodology
with relevant constitutive model of the material for its characteristics, simulate the
deformation kinematics and contact dynamics and demonstrate the smart actuation of
the soft robot along with the flexible sensors and control technique. The research work
identified is multi domain and multi physics problem, the work should yield the proof-
of-concept demonstration of a soft robot as a terrestrial vehicle for space exploration
requirements. Multiple proposals can be proposed in the various sub-topics which can
be inter disciplinary also.
217

--- Page 232 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
L3 Sub Area Space robotics and AI (IISU)
1. Dynamic modeling and simulation; This includes flexibility studies, rover control
algorithms for area control and capture control.
2. Guidance and control of free flyer, space robots; This will include modeling of
L3.1 orbital dynamics and space free flyer dynamics
3. AI based object grasping and manipulation in space environment; This includes
Collaborative manipulation tasks, parameters identification of non-co-operative
targets.
M Area Communication and Power Area (URSC)
Optical Homodyne Receiver For Data Transmission System
M1 Sub Area
Supporting 10 Gbps (URSC)
The increased demand for high data rate satellite links has resulted in migration from
microwave frequencies to optical frequencies. Optical frequencies offer advantages
such as:
• Large bandwidth
• Unregulated spectrum availability
• High directionality of signals leading to reduction in transmitted power
• Greater immunity to interference
While several optical domain techniques have been gainfully employed for terrestrial
communication, the usage of optical technology to satellite links has been largely
M1.1
limited to On/OFF Keying. Development of an Optical Homodyne Receiver for enabling
detection of digital phase modulated optical signals can improve the efficacy of the
optical data transmission system, as established in literature.
Design and realization of an Optical Homodyne Receiver and associated technologies for
supporting satellite data transmission at rates of 10 Gbps and beyond forms a problem
of interest to Communication Systems of several satellites. The problem can encompass
broader areas such as study of atmospheric effects on optical signal transmission and
corresponding mitigation techniques, study and development of optimum modulation
techniques for optical data transmission from satellites to ground, techniques for
improving the robustness of optical satellite links etc.
Development of pre-distortion algorithm for variable modulation/coding -based
system with amplitude/phase non-linearity (URSC)
The pre-distortion algorithm for the transmit channel becomes much more complex
M1.2 when the modulation and coding schemes become variable. Further to this taking care
of amplitude and phase non-linearity adds to the design complexity. Design of these
algorithms to support various types of devices operating at different frequencies is
essential to use the channels at maximum efficiency.
218

--- Page 233 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Simulation and modelling of multipath reflection for future landing missions
(URSC)
The multipath reflection from various surfaces may cause an issue for the landing missions
M1.3
at various planetary bodies. The multipath may distort the radiation pattern coming to
the ground station disrupting the radio channel. An accurate model for this will help in
the antenna accommodation study and operations for future landing missions.
Development of algorithms to predict the gravitational field of small bodies using
radio occultation system (URSC)
Radio occultation payloads are passive technologies which is used to estimate,
temperature, pressure, electron content, vapour pressure profile with the help of precise
M1.4
electronics packages. These payloads may be used to estimate the gravitational field of
planetary bodies to create a gravitational map. These may be created using two-way radio
occultation along with inter satellite system to avoid earth’s ionospheric disturbances.
These technologies will be helpful in future landing missions for less known bodies.
Miniaturised Diplexers at UHF band (URSC)
On MARS surface, in-situ communication between lander, rover and orbiting satellites
require UHF transceivers. URSC is involved in the design and realisation of these
transceivers. To have seamless connectivity among them, their high power transmitter
and highly sensitive receiver are requiring to be isolated sufficiently. UHF transceivers
M1.5 operate with 5-10MHz bandwidths in 400 MHz – 440 MHz band. To have a common
antenna for simultaneous transmission and reception, it requires a diplexer with at least
90 dB isolation between transmitted and received signals. The proposed diplexer is
expected to perform normal under Martian environment under the influence of 20 Watts
(CW) of RF power. Miniaturized diplexer with less than 500 grams in weight is expected
to have an insertion loss of less than 2dB and return loss of at least 15 dB.
M2 Sub Area Battery (URSC)
Space qualified Li-ion cell of wide operating temperature range with high cycle life
(URSC)
Li-ion cells have limited temperature especially when used with large number of
M2.1
charge-discharge cycles (say, 50,000). A Li-ion cell which works between -40 to +70dgC
while supporting large cycles will enable compact battery designs & suitable for harsh
environments of other planets.
Remaining Useful Life (RUL) model replacing life cycle tests for space application
of li-ion cell (URSC)
Space application of Li-ion cell starts after sufficient life cycle data from tests
M2.2
running for few years. A model for RUL for the cells which replaces life cycles with highly
reliable prediction will pave the way for the use of state-of-the-art cells with immediate
effect.
219

--- Page 234 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Generic Chemical modeling of Li-ion cell for the non-nominal conditions (URSC)
The space application needs to use the cell with life cycle data without exposure to
M2.3 launch & post-launch environmental conditions. Certain amount of overcharge/over
discharge may be seen under anomalous conditions. The model needs to estimate the
performance over life after aforesaid exposures.
M3 Sub Area Advanced Power Technologies (URSC)
Integrated Power modules for space applications (URSC)
M3.1 Control, power switch & protections integrated into one package/chip leading to
miniaturization and simplifying the design.
Anisotropic Magneto resistive current sensor (URSC)
M3.2
Contactless current sensor with good sensitivity, accuracy , low power consumption.
PCB interconnection connectors (URSC)
M3.3 Space qualified Connector (plug/socket) to connect PCBs without usage of Motherboard
for signal and power.
Isolated High voltage high current dc/dc (URSC)
M3.4
40-50V output, 12-10A isolated dc/dc for powering user systems using analog control.
PCB embedded passives (URSC)
M3.5 Embedding passive components like resistors, capacitors and cores inside PCB to
improve the power density.
SiC devices for space application (URSC)
M3.6 Silicon carbide based devices can operate at higher voltages, higher temperatures and
higher frequencies and can hence simplify the thermal management.
M4 Sub Area Power Converter (URSC)
Digitally controlled dc-dc converters (URSC)
Conventional converters draw current even when the load is not connected to them.
M4.1
This results in power loss & generated heat. Digital control aimed at turning OFF the
converter when there is no load connected, will result in power saving to a great extent.
3D integration techniques for dc-dc converters (URSC)
Traditional converters involve multiple components which lead to larger form factor
M4.2
and lower efficiency. 3D integration aims to overcome these limitations by bringing
components closer together in vertical structure.
M5 Sub Area Power Electronics (URSC)
High Current & High Voltage IGBT development for space application (URSC)
IGBTs are ideal devices for power electronic applications related to power grid protection
M5.1
and high current solid state relay. Space qualified IGBTs are currently not available. This
development can find applications in future missions like BAS.
220

--- Page 235 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Development of Power MOSFET with in-built isolated gate driver and logic level
interface (URSC)
M5.2 Availability of such a device can greatly bring down the challenge/complexity in
designing a reliable power electronic converter/ inverter. Most of the implementation
challenges are related to the MOSFET drive circuitry.
Space qualified Pseudo Capacitor development (URSC)
These are energy storage devices which packs very high energy as well as power density.
Very useful for satellite power bus, which demands huge power for few hundreds of
M5.3
milliseconds, like in high resolution radar imaging satellites.
Pseudo capacitors can be used as a distributed energy/power storage device enhance
the supply power density of the bus.
Space qualified PB embedded heat pipes & flexible plus stick able heat exchange
ribbons/ heat pipes (URSC)
M5.4 These will be very useful in increasing the power density of all power electronics
converters by enhancing the conduction of heat from highly dissipative devices to the
ambient/base.
Piezo Electric Power Inductors (URSC)
These are piezo electric crystals developed specifically to act as inductors in power
M5.5
circuits. These can be a production friendly and compact replacement for inductors in
power electronic converters.
N Area NavIC Ground Segment Related Research Works (ISTRAC)
N1 Sub Area Atomic Clock-Navigation Related Technology (ISTRAC)
Piezo electric Power Inductors (URSC)
Modern hydrogen masers are designed to compensate for temperature sensitivity
through the use of a precision thermal control system. In many masers, a precision
feedback thermal control system compensates for the effects of cavity pulling. In order
for the microwave cavity to maintain resonance with the hydrogen transition frequency,
the cavity must maintain tight volumetric tolerances. Fluctuations in the ambient
N1.1 temperature can cause the cavity to expand and contract. Thus, the thermal control
system is responsible for actively regulating the temperature of the cavity such that
ambient temperature perturbations do not alter the resting temperature of the cavity.
By maintaining a temperature set-point, the cavity maintains a fixed volume and the
resonance characteristics are not changed in spite of ambient temperature fluctuations.
Therefore, the frequency stability achieved by the maser is directly associated with the
performance of its precise thermal control system.
221

--- Page 236 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
N2 Sub Area NavIC Time and Frequency Dissemination (ISTRAC)
Low Noise Time & Frequency Transfer using optical medium (ISTRAC)
Time and frequency transfer plays a crucial role in the field of Navigation and positioning.
Precise timing facilities (PTF) generate the system time for the NavIC constellation which
are co-located with the Navigation Control Centers (NCC) where time and frequency is
disseminated. A low-noise frequency transfer technology using optical fibers to achiever
N2.1 ultra-stable frequency dissemination over long distances will be developed. The system
is based on high stability and low attenuation of optical signals, using ultrastable
laser sources, advanced modulation and demodulation techniques, and active noise
cancellation methods. The developed system shall achieve minimum transfer noise and
maintain high frequency stability better than 10-14 @ 1sec over long distances. This
technology shall be used for precise NavIC time and frequency transfer applications.
Design and development of mitigation techniques for in-band interference due to
5G signals (ISTRAC)
IRNSS CDMA Ranging (IRCDR) stations are operating in the frequency band of 3400MHz
to 3425MHz. 5G services have been rolled out across India in the frequency band of
N2.2
3370 MHz - 3470 MHz. This frequency band includes the frequency band allocated for
IRCDR stations. The 5G services causing in-band interference to the IRCDR stations, and
interrupting its normal operations. To ensure the uninterrupted operations of the IRCDR
stations, there is a need for developing an in-band interference mitigation technique.
Design and development of multipath mitigation techniques and algorithm using
advanced correlators in baseband signal processing (ISTRAC)
Multipath can be mitigated at antenna level, signal design level, baseband signal
N2.3
processing and at navigation data processing. The proposal is to design and develop
advanced correlator technologies in order to detect multipath signals and mitigate the
impact so that the receiver doesn’t lose the lock even in high multipath area.
Development of post processing software for precise positioning using NavIC
triple frequency measurements (L1, L5 and S) (ISTRAC)
At present, NavIC L1, L5 and S band signals are available for positioning, navigation and
N2.4 timing services in Indian region. This research proposal aims for the development of
post processing software engine to estimate the precise position of a surveyed location
using NavIC RINEX data. The software shall be able to provide solutions using single
point positioning and differential based positioning method.
O Area Radar Systems (ISTRAC)
O1 Sub Area Photonic Systems (ISTRAC)
Design and development of Photonic Transmitter (ISTRAC)
O1.1 The design of photonic transmitters for radar systems represents a critical frontier in
radar technology, offering transformative advantages in terms of bandwidth, power
222

--- Page 237 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
efficiency, and signal integrity. The objective of this proposal is to study and design
Photonic Transmitter for Radar applications. The following are the problem statements:
• Study of different Photonic techniques for RF Signal generation
• Study of different modulation techniques like Optical Heterodyning/photomixing,
direct modulated laser technique, modelocking technique.
• Design of basic RF generating equipment like Electro-optic MachZehnder Modulator,
Multiplexer, Optical Amplifier and high-speed photodiode.
• Configuration of the Basic Lineup of a Photonic Transmitter with above modules.
• Develop a low-cost, bench-top, lab based proof of concept of a Photonic transmitter.
O2 Sub Area Antenna Systems (ISTRAC)
Metasurface antenna for adaptive beamforming (ISTRAC)
Meta-surfaces have revolutionized electromagnetic (EM) wave manipulation by offering
unprecedented control over wave propagation and other forms of EM radiation. These
planar structures are composed of sub-wavelength unit cells, which impart desired
phase, amplitude, and polarization responses to incident EM waves. By engineering
these properties at the sub-wavelength scale, metasurfaces provide remarkable
flexibility in shaping EM wavefronts, making them pivotal technology in areas such as
optics, photonics, and communications. One of the key applications of digital coded
metasurface antennas is in beamforming, where the direction of the main lobe of the
radiated beam is controlled to focus energy in a specific direction. Typically, the inputs
O2.1 of the desired beam direction parameters, such as azimuth and elevation angles, are
provided to the FPGA, which processes them using algorithms based on Fourier
transforms, phase gradient techniques, or other optimization methods to determine
the optimal digital code sequence for the entire metasurface. In the next stage, the
FPGA communicates with the metasurface via digital-to-analog converters or directly
through digital control lines, updating the bias voltages to the integrated electronic
components. As a result, the entire metasurface reconfigures its EM response, enabling
beam steering or even simultaneous multi-beam operation. Thus, the potential benefits
of digital coded metasurface antennas are enormous. Their ability to rapidly adapt to
changing operating states and perform multiple functions within a single device makes
them particularly attractive for next-generation radar applications.
MEMS based Joule Thomson Cryo-Cooler (ISTRAC)
The need for MEMS-based Joule-Thomson cryogenic systems in radar applications
arises from the increasing demand for compact, lightweight, and energy-efficient
O2.2 cooling solutions to enable advanced radar functionalities. MEMS-based cryogenic
systems address these challenges by leveraging microscale components and efficient
thermodynamic processes to deliver precise and reliable cooling performance within a
compact footprint.
223

--- Page 238 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• To Design, Analyze, Fabricate, Integrate and Testing of MEMS based Closed Loop Joule
Thomson Cryo-cooler for electronic device cooling (LNA).
• Design, fabrication and Testing of MEMS based Joule Thomson Cryocooler.
• Micro-cooler, which is capable of generating 1W Cooling Power using Nitrogen (at
77K).
• Multi stage Cryo-cooler for lower temperature less than 77K
• Analyzing and implementing Cryogen mixtures for reducing the inlet pressure
• Identify and Integrate the MEMS cooler with total system for cryogenic closed loop
cooling system.
• Testing and Evaluation.
O3 Sub Area Radar Signal Processing (ISTRAC)
Waveform designs that can resolve target masking (which is due to difference in
range and rcs) and range coupling (which is due to high velocity of debris) (ISTRAC)
Effective waveform design can mitigate this by shaping the transmitted signal to
enhance the separation between closely spaced targets or those with differing RCS
values. Waveforms with high range and Doppler resolution help to resolve target
masking by providing better separation between targets in both range and velocity.
Pulse compression is a key waveform design strategy to overcome target masking by
improving range resolution without increasing pulse duration. Using long-duration
pulses modulated by frequency (chirp) or phase can compress the pulse in time, offering
finer range resolution and distinguishing targets with different RCS or range. Adaptive
O3.1
waveforms can dynamically adjust their parameters, such as pulse width, frequency,
and modulation scheme, based on realtime radar measurements. Target masking by
encoding the radar return from different targets, even when they are located at similar
ranges or exhibit different RCS. UWB waveforms provide extremely wide bandwidth,
enabling high-resolution imaging of targets. These waveforms are ideal for resolving
target masking and range coupling because they allow the radar system to detect
small differences in both range and velocity, even in environments with high clutter or
rapidly moving debris. By transmitting multiple, independent waveforms from different
antennas, MIMO radar increases the chances of distinguishing targets with different RCS
or velocities, even in complex environments with closely spaced or high-speed debris.
Design a sparse array configuration for large antenna arrays by using optimization
algorithms (ISTRAC)
Sparse array design is to minimize the number of antenna elements and the physical
O3.2
aperture size without sacrificing performance. Sparse array designs use optimization
techniques to distribute antenna elements in a way that reduces side lobes, keeping
them below a certain threshold while ensuring that the main beam remains focused.
224

--- Page 239 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
array design algorithms aim to maximize directivity by optimizing the antenna positions
so that energy is concentrated in the desired directions. Sparse arrays, when designed
properly, can minimize scan loss by optimizing element spacing and distribution across
the aperture, ensuring that the array maintains a consistent radiation pattern over a
wide scanning range. The spacing between antenna elements is too large relative to the
wavelength, leading to false beams. The sparse array design by simulating the radiation
pattern, side lobes, directivity, and other performance metrics. The number of elements
with the need for low side lobes and minimal grating lobes. Sparse array designs are
particularly useful in real-world applications where space, weight, and cost constraints
are significant, such as in satellite communication systems or radar networks. Using
optimization techniques and EM simulations ensures that these sparse arrays provide
robust performance, even in challenging environments, while minimizing the impact of
side lobes, scan loss, and grating lobes.
Sparse MIMO RADAR DOA estimation and Beam forming Algorithms for real time
applications (ISTRAC)
The sparsity allows for improved performance in terms of spatial resolution and signal
processing efficiency. Sparse MIMO systems benefit from reduced element counts
without significantly sacrificing the accuracy of DOA estimates, achieved through
advanced algorithms. Beamforming in sparse MIMO radar involves steering the antenna
array’s radiation pattern towards specific directions to improve target detection and
tracking. CS algorithms exploit the sparsity of the signal to reconstruct the full array
response, offering better performance with fewer antenna elements. Realtime DOA
O3.3
estimation in sparse MIMO radar requires algorithms that can quickly and efficiently
compute target angles, even under dynamic conditions. Sparse MIMO radars often
operate over wide frequency bands, and wideband DOA estimation allows them to
estimate target directions more accurately by utilizing the frequency diversity. Cognitive
beamforming in sparse MIMO radar allows the system to adapt its beamforming strategy
based on real-time feedback about environmental conditions and interference. The real-
time applications of sparse MIMO radar demand low-complexity algorithms to minimize
computational overhead while still achieving high accuracy in DOA estimation and
beamforming.
MIMO and Sparse array automated calibration Algorithms (ISTRAC)
Calibration is critical in MIMO and sparse array radar systems to ensure that the
system operates with high accuracy and minimal errors. It involves compensating for
imperfections in the antenna elements, signal paths, and other system components that
O3.4
could affect the signal quality, such as phase shifts and amplitude mismatches. Sparse
arrays typically have fewer antennas than traditional full arrays, making calibration more
challenging due to irregular spacing and potential mutual coupling between elements.
225

--- Page 240 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
MIMO radar systems involve multiple transmit and receive antennas, making real-time
calibration crucial for accurate direction-of-arrival (DOA) estimation and beamforming.
Self-calibration methods are widely used in MIMO and sparse arrays, where the radar
system uses known reference signals or target information to automatically correct for
misalignments and errors. Phase and amplitude calibration is essential for ensuring that
signals from all antenna elements are coherently combined. Automated algorithms use
reference signals or feedback loops to adjust the phase and amplitude of each element
in real time, ensuring the array operates as a coherent whole and improving performance
in applications like DOA estimation and beamforming. In sparse arrays, mutual coupling
between elements can cause interference and performance degradation. Automated
calibration algorithms can detect and compensate for these effects by modeling the
coupling between adjacent antennas and adjusting the signals accordingly to minimize
their impact on the radar system’s performance. Adaptive calibration algorithms
allow MIMO and sparse arrays to adjust their calibration parameters over time as the
environment or system performance changes. Each sub array or antenna group can
perform local calibration, and the results are aggregated, allowing for efficient and
scalable calibration across large arrays with minimal human intervention.
Mitigation of Non-linear receiver effects through signal processing techniques
(ISTRAC)
Non-linear effects in receivers occur when the input signal amplitude exceeds the
receiver’s linear operating range, leading to distortion such as harmonic generation,
intermodulation, and clipping. Linearization methods aim to reduce the distortion
caused by non-linearities by using compensation algorithms, such as memory
polynomial models or digital predistortion (DPD). Non-linear channel estimation
techniques estimate the channel impairments caused by non-linearity in the receiver.
These methods use training sequences or pilot signals to model and compensate
O3.5 for non-linear distortions, helping to restore signal integrity and improve detection
performance. By isolating and processing the components affected by non-linearity,
this technique helps to filter out unwanted distortion and retain the original signal’s
essential features. Digital predistortion (DPD) is a widely used technique in mitigating
non-linear distortion, where a model of the non-linear receiver is used to generate a
predistorted signal that cancels out the distortion. By applying the inverse of the non-
linear behavior before transmission, DPD ensures that the received signal is less affected
by non-linearities. These models learn the complex, non-linear relationships between
the transmitted and received signals and can effectively compensate for distortions
caused by non-linear receivers, improving the system’s overall performance.
226

--- Page 241 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
Antenna Array Signal processing algorithms for DSN Array (ISTRAC)
The Deep Space Network (DSN) is a network of large radio antennas used for
communication with spacecraft in deep space. Antenna array signal processing
algorithms are crucial for enhancing the reception of weak signals from distant
spacecraft, overcoming challenges like noise, interference, and Doppler shifts. Doppler
shift is a significant effect in DSN communications due to the relative motion between
the spacecraft and the ground station. Signal processing algorithms are employed to
compensate for these shifts in frequency, allowing for accurate demodulation of signals
despite the changing relative velocities. Deep space communication often involves very
weak signals with low signal-to-noise ratios (SNR). Detection algorithms, such as matched
filtering or Maximum Likelihood Detection (MLD), are used to enhance signal detection
O3.6 in these low-SNR conditions by maximizing the likelihood of correctly interpreting
the received signal. MIMO signal processing algorithms are employed to increase the
communication capacity of DSN arrays. By utilizing multiple antennas to transmit and
receive signals simultaneously, MIMO techniques can enhance the data throughput
and reliability of the system, especially in conditions with high noise or fading. Channel
estimation is essential for accurate signal recovery in DSN systems, as the transmission
medium between the spacecraft and ground station can vary significantly. Accurate
time and frequency synchronization between the DSN ground station and spacecraft
is crucial for coherent signal processing. Techniques like Kalman filtering or extended
Kalman filters (EKF) help track the spacecraft’s position and velocity, enabling the system
to adjust the array’s beam direction in real time, ensuring continuous communication
with minimal dropouts.
O4 Sub Area Antenna Array Design (ISTRAC)
Antenna Array design for DSN & Distributed antenna Array optimization and EM
simulation (ISTRAC)
The DSN antenna array design is critical for ensuring reliable communication with
spacecraft over vast distances. High gain and directivity are essential in DSN antenna
arrays to focus energy toward distant spacecraft, improving signal reception. Array
design techniques like parabolic reflector or phased arrays are used to achieve high
gain and steerable beams for precise tracking of spacecraft. Minimizing side lobe levels
O4.1
and avoiding grating lobes are crucial for maintaining high-quality signal reception
and preventing interference from unwanted sources. Optimization algorithms adjust
antenna placement to minimize side lobe power while maintaining main beam integrity,
ensuring clean communication with spacecraft. Beamforming algorithms optimize
the radiation pattern of the antenna array to focus on the spacecraft’s direction. EM
simulations are essential in antenna array design to model how the array interacts with
electromagnetic waves, ensuring it performs as expected in real-world conditions.
227

--- Page 242 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Through EM simulations and optimization, the design can be fine-tuned to maintain
consistent performance across the required frequency bands without sacrificing
beamforming or directivity. EM simulations ensure that all antennas in the array work
in harmony, with consistent time and phase alignment, improving signal quality and
reducing errors in communication. Through distributed antenna array design and
optimization techniques, large, efficient arrays can be implemented with fewer physical
components, while EM simulations guide the design to meet performance metrics such
as directivity, side lobe suppression, and low grating lobes.
Achieving High Combined SINR in the presence of RFI and spatially correlated
interference from planets (ISTRAC)
High SINR leads to better signal clarity and reliable data transmission, which is crucial for
deep space communications or satellite networks operating in challenging environments.
RFI (Radio Frequency Interference) occurs when unwanted electromagnetic signals
from terrestrial sources, satellites, or even planetary bodies interfere with the desired
communication signals. This interference reduces SINR and can degrade system
performance, making it essential to implement strategies for mitigating its impact.
Spatially correlated interference this interference is often difficult to mitigate due
to its broad spectral coverage and correlated nature, which makes it challenging to
O4.2 separate from the desired signal. By steering beams toward the spacecraft and away
from sources of RFI and planetary interference, beamforming increases the received
signal strength while minimizing interference. Space-time processing methods, such as
MIMO (Multiple Input Multiple Output) or spatial diversity, allow for the exploitation of
spatial correlations in the interference signal. By using multiple antennas at different
spatial locations, these techniques help in improving SINR by separating the desired
signal from spatially correlated interference sources, including planetary emissions.
Polarization techniques utilize the different polarization properties of the interfering
and desired signals to improve SINR. By designing antennas that can selectively receive
signals based on polarization, the system can reduce interference from RFI and spatially
correlated planetary signals that may have different polarization characteristics.
O5 Sub Area Deep Space Systems (ISTRAC)
Signal processing for Deep space communication (ISTRAC)
The primary challenge is maintaining signal integrity despite issues like high noise levels,
Doppler shifts, and signal degradation due to the large distance between spacecraft
and Earth. Signal processing algorithms, such as matched filtering and error correction
O5.1
coding, are crucial for improving SNR and enabling the recovery of weak signals amidst
background noise and interference. Equalization techniques like adaptive filters or
decision feedback equalization (DFE) are used to mitigate distortion and recover the
transmitted signal with minimal degradation.
228

--- Page 243 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
These coding schemes help detect and correct errors introduced by noise or interference,
ensuring data integrity even in challenging deep space environments. This improves
signal strength and reduces interference, ensuring that the signal is received with minimal
distortion, even in the presence of noise and interference. Deep space communication
can experience interference from various sources, such as terrestrial RFI (radio frequency
interference) and galactic noise. Adaptive filtering and interference nulling techniques
are used to suppress these unwanted signals, allowing the system to focus on the target
spacecraft signal.
DSN Array Automated Calibration under atmospheric turbulence over the array
(ISTRAC)
The Deep Space Network (DSN) comprises large antenna arrays used to communicate
with spacecraft in deep space. Accurate calibration of these arrays is essential for
maintaining high-quality communication, especially in
the presence of environmental disturbances such as atmospheric turbulence.
Atmospheric turbulence refers to variations in the atmosphere’s refractive index caused by
temperature and pressure changes. This turbulence distorts the received signals, leading
to phase errors, signal degradation, and reduced communication. Automated calibration
O5.2
is crucial for maintaining consistent performance in the DSN arrays, especially under
variable conditions. Atmospheric turbulence can introduce phase errors and amplitude
fluctuations in the received signal. Automated calibration algorithms continuously
adjust the phase and amplitude of individual antenna elements to correct these errors,
ensuring the integrity of the received signal from the spacecraft. Beamforming is highly
sensitive to phase shifts and amplitude changes caused by atmospheric turbulence.
Adaptive algorithms, such as LMS (Least Mean Squares) or RLS (Recursive Least Squares),
are used for real-time turbulence compensation in DSN arrays. By constantly analyzing
signal quality and applying correction algorithms, the system can adapt to atmospheric
turbulence and maintain optimal performance throughout the communication link.
O6 Sub Area LEO/MEO/GEO Satellite Constellation for Drone Warfare (MCF)
Drones, or Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), have become an integral part of modern
military operations. Initially developed for reconnaissance and surveillance, drones
have evolved into versatile platforms capable of executing various missions, from
intelligence gathering to precision strikes. However, the full potential of UAVs is realized
when enhanced with satellite connectivity, removing the limitations of traditional line-
of-sight or terrestrial-based communication, and enabling real-time communication
and coordination across vast distances and hostile environments.
229

--- Page 244 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
A satellite constellation for drone warfare enables long-range, reliable communication
and navigation, crucial for tasks like intelligence gathering, real-time video streaming,
and Beyond-Visual-Line-Of-Sight (BVLOS) operations, even in GPS-denied environments.
Satellite communication enables coordinated swarm operations, where multiple drones
work together to accomplish complex missions.
The future deployment of UAVs in military operations only looks to increase with
advancements in artificial intelligence (AI), swarming technology, and autonomous
decision-making being key growth drivers. For instance, satellite-connected AI-
powered drones, capable of identifying targets autonomously, making decisions in
combat scenarios, and communicating with other drones, is the need of the hour. All
of these technological advances will require the reach and reliability of remote satellite
connectivity to execute on a global scale.
Following are the research areas
1. LEO/MEO/GEO constellation design for UAV communication with inter satellite links.
2. Security Protocols Development for UAV communications.
3. Smart Antennas on UAV for satellite communications and inter swam communication.
4. Drone Operations in GNSS signal denied Environment i.e. Jamming and spoofing
conditions.
O7 Sub Area Passive Ranging System (MCF)
The ESA & ESA-Like tone ranging is the most widely used conventional ranging
scheme which is a based on the sequential transmission of tones to determine the
slant range from the earth station to the spacecraft. This ranging method requires the
active transmission and reception of the ranging signal via a dedicated ground system,
ground-space link, and dedicated transponder. Moreover, if there are more number of
co-located spacecraft in a given longitude, the current ranging system is not able to
cater the requirement to carry out the ranging at a given rate and accuracy. Ranging
operation planning, allocating earth station resources, and integrating multiple stations
for better ranging accuracy are the points that need further consideration when carrying
out ranging with such a conventional approach.
The Passive ranging based ranging determination is an alternative to the active and
semi-active tone-ranging system. This technique works on the I/Q data correlation
where some RF signal (usually telemetry signal radiated from spacecraft) is captured by
the RF sensor placed at different geographically separated earth stations at the same
time and later correlation is performed between the captured signals. This technique
has the following advantages over the other alternate-ranging system:
230

--- Page 245 ---
SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY
• Requires only RF sensors at receive path with reduced complexity.
• The lack of active transmission eliminates the risk of interfering with the other
satellites.
• High-rate measurement guarantee immediate maneuver detection.
• Continuous data collection and hence continuous spacecraft tracking in all weather
conditions. Improves space-situational awareness (SSA).
• No demodulation or decoding is needed to process the range data as opposed to the
tone-ranging system.
• The passive ranging approach offers an “always on” ranging approach. Ranging
measurements run in the background, continuously and independently from the rest
of the spacecraft operations.
The research areas
1. System design which correlates the down link signal collected at geographically
separated sensors.
2. Timing synchronization of geographically separated sensors for accurate TDOA
measurements.
3. Accurate Orbit determination with the TDOA measurements.
P Area Satellite Communications/Spacecraft Operations (LEOS)
P1 Sub Area Satellite Health Monitoring (LEOS)
P1.1 All Fiber Magneto-Optic Current Sensor (AFMOCS) (LEOS)
Satellite Communications/Electro-Optical Sensor Technology
Q Area
(LEOS)
Q1 Sub Area Alignment and Co-phasing of Segmented Optics (LEOS)
Q1.1 Position sensor for precision alignment of segmented mirrors (LEOS)
Segmented telescope mirrors co-phasing scheme for near-diffraction limited
Q1.2
performance (LEOS)
Development of in-situ Aspheric Profile Measurement Systems
Q2 Sub Area
(LEOS)
In-situ aspheric profile measurement setup for high-precision telescope mirrors
Q2.1
(LEOS)
Q3 Sub Area Lasers, LiDARs and Laser Spectroscopy (LEOS)
Q3.1 Development of high-energy pulsed fiber lasers (LEOS)
Q3.2 3D-imaging flash LiDAR (LEOS)
Development of a handheld LIBS-based analytical instrument for agriculture
Q3.3
applications (LEOS)
231

--- Page 246 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
232

--- Page 247 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
A Area Geoscience (IIRS / NESAC / NRSC / SAC)
A1 Sub Area Cryospheric Studies ( NESAC / SAC)
Himalayan snow (SAC)
SAC has been generating sub-basin wise snow cover products database using Advanced
Wide Field Sensor (AWiFS) data since 2004 in the Himalayan region. These products are
the best available time series snow cover products having fine spatial and temporal
resolution so far in the world. INSAT-3D/R/S provides daily snow cover products at India
Meteorological Department (IMD) from geostationary platform. Snow products have
been used in snow melt runoff estimations, in understanding of accumulation and
ablation pattern of snow in different climatic zones of HKH region, and in assessing the
snow cover trends to ever-changing climate. However, there are important challenging
A1.1 areas where research is needed to address cryosphere studies. These are estimation
of annual seasonal snow mass using photogrammetric/interferometric and scattering
mechanism using PolSAR data. Snow parameter retrieval (s.a. snow density, wetness,
SWE) using SAR/Hyperspectral data, Radiative transfer modelling and role of snow
parameters in climate model will be helpful to understand the impact of climate on
Himalayan mountains. Disaster applications such as Avalanche, GLOF etc. are other
crucial areas of research. Development of snow-melt runoff at high altitude area, suitable
site selection for micro hydroelectric projects using geospatial modelling and real time
assessment of discharge for Indian rivers using satellite data are important in the field of
surface hydrology.
Himalayan glaciers (SAC)
Inventory and monitoring of Himalayan glaciers within periphery of IGB basins has been
a foremost requirement of our nation to know the stock of glacier stored water, and
variations in dimensions of glaciers as an impact of climatic variations. SAC has carried
out extensive work in this direction using data from Indian sensors such as AWiFS, LISS III
and LISS IV of Resourcesat series satellite. The glacier inventory in IGB basins is available
at VEDAS portal of SAC for visualization. However, automatization of glacier feature
extraction and change detection from space platform in Himalayan region are the research
A1.2
areas to be addressed. Glacier mass balance is important to assess the status of their
current response to climate change, and requires improvement in estimates to minimize
the uncertainty. Major research domain in mountain glacier region includes geodetic
mass balance estimation with field validation at sub-basin scale using Cartosat-1 &
future stereo mission, improvement in Accumulation Area Ratio (AAR) and Mass Balance
relationship in HKH region, retrieval of ice velocity, snow/ice facies using SAR/PolSAR data,
understanding the glacier dynamics, Regional Climate model for future projection, GLOF
risk assessment, and impact assessment on cryospheric elements in different scenarios.
233

--- Page 248 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Himalayan Permafrost (SAC)
The permafrost is very important element of Cryosphere studies. The distribution and
changes occurring at permafrost in the mountainous HKH region as a result of climatic
variations needs to be known in view its importance to ecology and land cover changes.
A1.3 Exploration of Permafrost might give new insights to high altitude environmental
changes through optical, thermal and active microwave data. Estimation of permafrost
zonation, geomorphological signatures, degradation and interaction with SAR/PolSAR
data are essential to understand the dynamics of permafrost in high altitudes of HKH
region to assess the impact of climate change.
Himalayan snow melt run off models (NESAC)
• Improvements and development of snow melt run-off models.
A1.4
• Applications of snow melt run off for irrigation and hydro-power requirements.
• Impact of climate change on Himalayan snow & glaciers.
Polar ice sheets (SAC)
One of the most challenging research area in polar ice sheets is estimation of ice sheet
mass balance and resulting sea level rise. State of art techniques, development of
algorithms utilizing SARAL/AltiKa data and analysis of results have been demonstrated at
SAC through various studies. It needs to be expanded further by using globally available
LASER/RADAR altimetry datasets. Another important research area is to investigate the
A1.5
dynamics of polar ice sheets using optical, SAR data along with incorporating numerical
Ice sheet modelling, studying causes and linked processes for ice shelf instability.
Development of techniques to automatize monitoring of ice shelves margin and calving
events, to access the impact of various surface melt processes on the polar ice dynamics
and exchange of surface energy fluxes are another important activity in polar ice sheet
studies.
Polar sea ice (SAC)
One of the major contribution of SAC in polar ice studies is extraction of sea ice area
from ISRO’s Scaterrometers data and understanding its spatial-temporal variability.
Technique development has been demonstrated to measure sea ice thickness using
data from SARAL/AltiKa. It needs to be a continuing activity by using other globally
available LASER/RADAR altimetry datasets to enrich and analyse long-term trend in sea
A1.6
ice thickness. More research is required to address trend in sea ice extent, concentration,
thickness, snow depth over sea ice, sea ice drift estimation, sea ice albedo & feedback
mechanism, sea ice modelling and understanding the oceanic and atmospheric driving
factors for global sea ice variability. Automatic techniques using multi-sensor approach
along with iceberg detection and tracking are needed for improving sea ice advisories
required for safer ship navigation during Indian Scientific Expedition to Antarctica.
234

--- Page 249 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
A2 Sub Area Geology (IIRS / SAC)
Geological Remote Sensing: Exploration of Submarine ground water discharge
using thermal remote sensing (IIRS)
Submarine Groundwater Discharge (SGD) is an important process of the sub surface
hydrological cycle in the transitional environments where land meets sea. Owing to its
complex structural/ hydro-morphogeological controls, seasonal and temporal variability,
difficulty in detection, importance and effects of SGD remain largely underexplored. Hence,
mapping potential SGD and assessing their potential impact areas in coastal ecosystems
of Indian Peninsula is surging up as one of the strategically important research front.
As per the general pre-requisite, the fact that relatively cooler groundwater discharging
to warmer coastal waters manifests in the thermal band of satellite imagery acquired
during the suitable period of the year remains to be the mainstay of this research.
Spaceborne thermal infrared imaging instruments in the satellites like LANDSAT, ASTER,
MODIS, ECOSTRESS etc. employed to derive sea surface temperature and standardized
temperature anomaly maps and other surficial head related phenomenon provide
critical help in identifying and characterizing SGD areas. In addition, this this research
front aims to quantify the SGD and its potential effect in geological environment,
specially where there is a dearth of potable ground water and environmentally protected
areas. Subsurface controls like the lithology, consistency of primary and secondary
A2.1
porosity and permeability of aquifer system, local and regional geotechnical parameters
including rock strength and patterns of joint/ discontinuities play a major role enabling
the subsurface flow of groundwater from land to sea, which can often validated by
resistivity and other surface geophysical proxies.
The proposed project holds promise to showcase the potential of space borne thermal
infrared sensor for the detection of SGD from space and can be helpful for the ISRO
upcoming satellite mission like TRISHNA (Thermal Infra Red Imaging Satellite for
High-resolution Natural Resource Assessment).
In essence, the project shall aim at understanding heterogeneous subsurface lithology,
structural controls (shallow subsurface fracture systems), porosity (both primary and
secondary)/ permeability and variation on hydraulic conductivity play a role in estimation
of nature and extent of SGDs. Establishing the inter-relation of variation in shore pore-
fluid salinity vis-a vis SDG occurrences (including their future potential locations) will
be one of the mainstay of the project. Additionally, it has to be observed if surface
deformations (like subsidence, if any) features act as surface proxies for locating/ defining
extent of SDGs. And, thereby, research findings should lead to characterization of shallow
subsurface geological and hydrogeological controls to understand aquifer settings for
SGDs, through remote sensing with special emphasis to thermal imaging techniques.
235

--- Page 250 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Mineral Exploration (SAC)
Although large part of the country has been conventionally surveyed and location of
most of the economic mineral deposits have been investigated in detail, still new mineral
deposits needs to be explored to meet ever-increasing demand of the industries. Mineral
exploration using conventional techniques involve geological mapping followed by
geophysical and geochemical investigations, pitting, trenching, exploratory drilling,
estimating reserves etc. Remote sensing based methods have been so far limited to
updating the existing geological/structural maps and in identifying hydrothermal
alteration zones as a useful guide. Alteration halo is much more widespread of rocks
surrounding a mineral deposit that are caused by solutions that formed the deposit.
A2.2
Research is required to explore integrated use of multispectral, hyperspectral, thermal
and radar data along with high resolution DEM (space-borne as well aerial), geochemical
and geophysical data sets in diverse geological and environmental settings to identify
and map new mineral prognostic zones with special focus on Rare Earth Elements, base
metals and precious metals. Methods for automated mapping of minerals associated
with alteration zones, development of spectral-geochemical relationship using
spectral and geochemical datasets need to be developed. Research is also required for
quantification of spectral changes in reflectance spectra due to hydrothermal alteration
process associated with mineral prospects using advanced laboratory based spectral
and geochemical studies.
Geo-Archaeology and Palaeochannel (SAC)
Space based geo-archaeological exploration along with geo-spatial tools is one
of the most fascinating geoscience application. It involves interpretation of multi-
sensor satellite data to explore new archaeological sites, understand development,
preservation and destruction of archaeological sites in context of regional scale
environmental changes, evolution of physical landscape and impact of human groups
by applying concepts and methods of geosciences (especially geology, geomorphology,
hydrology, sedimentology, pedology and exploration geophysics). Research is required
A2.3
to develop methods/approach to explore archaeological sites using multi-sensor
satellite data (Radar and high resolution multispectral data in particular) in conjunction
with geospatial database of known archaeological sites. It is required to understand
impact of neo-tectonic activities and palaeo-climatic changes on evolution of ancient
civilisations. Another field is the detailed study of the palaeochannel. The lost River
Sarawsati is one of the prominent study demonstrating the potential of Remote sensing
data for palaeochannel study. Emphasis of on ground water potential site mapping also
take advantage of palaeochannel.
Ground Water (SAC)
Groundwater geohydrology research is at the heart of the food-water-energy nexus.
A2.4
Geological framework intrinsically controls sustainable development and management
of groundwater resources in any area. Armed with multi-sensor observations and huge
236

--- Page 251 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
archive of time series data repository of various geospatial proxies, depth to water table
is modelled using advanced geospatial and machine learning based algorithms at a high
temporal resolution. Water policies and governance needs to be customized not only
based on public demand but the inherent geohydrological properties of any region.
Such remote sensing based modelling provides a holistic overview of the different
controls on groundwater.
Groundwater potential mapping using remote sensing techniques presents a promising
research area that should be efficiently explored. Integrating satellite imagery with GIS
allows for the identification and delineation of groundwater potential zones (GWPZs),
offering a spatially efficient approach to resource assessment. A particularly valuable
aspect of this research lies in the use of the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP), which, when
combined with remote sensing data, can weigh crucial factors such as slope, rainfall,
geology, geomorphology, land use/land cover (LULC), and soil type, for enhancing
the accuracy of groundwater potential mapping. Mapping geological formations,
including lineaments and fractures, is essential for understanding groundwater flow
and identifying recharge areas. Additionally, incorporating morphometric analysis with
total rank method, which examines watershed aerial, linear, and relief characteristics
(drainage density, basin shape, relief ratio, and stream frequency etc.), adds another layer
in assessing groundwater potential. This comprehensive and multi-faceted approach
offers great potential for refining groundwater management practices at larger scales
and can significantly contribute to sustainable water resource planning.
Differential Interferometric measurements have demonstrated the potential application
for monitoring the GW depletion/recharge and associated land subsidence / rebound.
With the future launch of NISAR and existing Sentinel mission, these studies will provide
a holistic picture. Research is needed in the analysis and interpretation of the remote
sensing data especially interferometric data for ground water exploitation and recharge.
A3 Sub Area Marine and Coastal Geoscience (NRSC /SAC)
Marine Geosciences (SAC)
Sea surface height measurements from satellite altimeters are extensively used to
retrieve marine geoid and gravity data sets. High precision measurements from satellite
altimeters such as the SARAL/ALtiKa and the recent SWOT have significantly improved the
A3.1 accuracy and resolution of the marine gravity field. Altimeter derived geoid undulation
and free-air gravity anomalies over Indian Ocean needs to be utilised to understand
plate tectonic processes relating to oceanic ridges, subduction zones, formation of
marine sedimentary basins and the evolution of continental margins. Higher resolution
marine gravity field is also essential for marine exploration.
237

--- Page 252 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Coastal Geosciences (SAC)
Coastal zones are the interface between land and ocean and are dynamic fragile
ecosystem, where interaction among complex natural coastal processes, coastal
hazards, vital habitats and human activities occur and integrated studies for sustainable
coastal zone management are required for protecting life, property and environment.
Some of the major coastal geoscience research area includes coastal sediment transport
modelling using satellite retrieved parameters, understanding coastal processes
and causes of coastal erosion, dynamics of various coastal processes and its impact
A3.2 on evolution of coastal geomorphology, modeling coastal erosion and developing
methods to predict shoreline changes, use of advanced automated methods to delineate
shoreline (high Threshold Logic (HTL)/ Less than Truckload (LTL)) from satellite data,
understanding impact of coastal processes on critical/vital habitats, understanding
impact of predicted sea level rise on coastal zone, understanding coastal hazards and
vulnerability/risk assessment, developing techniques for automated coastal landforms/
wetlands/land use/land cover mapping, detecting and monitoring coastal pollution,
understanding impact on coastal ecosystem and developing models for integrated
coastal zone management.
Space-Based Monitoring of Saline Ingress in Indian Coastal Regions (NRSC)
Coastal groundwater dynamics, including saline ingress and submarine groundwater
discharge (SGD), significantly impact coastal agriculture, freshwater availability, and
marine ecosystems. This study is proposed to utilize satellite remote sensing techniques
to monitor these processes by analyzing multi-source satellite data such as optical, SAR
A3.3 and thermal data. Changes in land cover, vegetation stress, soil moisture, and water clarity
serve as key indicators of salinity intrusion and groundwater discharge. By integrating
these satellite observations with in-situ salinity and groundwater flow measurements,
the study aims to develop a predictive model for sustainable coastal management.
The findings will support early warning systems, freshwater conservation, and policy
decisions to mitigate the adverse effects of changing coastal groundwater conditions.
Characterization and Spatial Mapping of Seagrass Ecosystems in Indian Coastal
Regions using high Resolution Satellite data (NRSC)
This research develops advanced remote sensing techniques to charactering and
mapping seagrass meadows along India coastline, addressing gaps in spatial coverage
and temporal monitoring. By integrating high-resolution multispectral and hyperspectral
A3.4 satellite data, it enhances detection accuracy and overcomes limitations of traditional
field surveys. Temporal analysis will track seagrass changes, identifying threats to
these ecosystems. The findings will support conservation efforts, inform coastal
policies, and enhance ecosystem management. This approach ensures cost-effective,
large-scale monitoring, addressing data scarcity and enabling sustainable coastal
resource management.
238

--- Page 253 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
A4 Sub Area Hydrology (IIRC / NESAC / SAC)
Advanced R&D for Wide swath altimetry (SAC)
Monitoring Water level from space platform is important to augment existing ground
network in remote and inaccessible regions including Trans-Boundary Rivers. There is
need to develop advanced approach to estimate water level from Nadir Microwave as
A4.1
well as LIDAR based altimeters. Estimation of water velocity and discharge has been
challenge from remote sensing observations, methods need to be developed to address
river discharge and storage volume using nadir and high resolution interferometric wide
swath altimetry.
Data Assimilation techniques for improved hydrological fluxes (SAC)
Assimilation of hydrological variables in physics-based process driven hydrological
A4.2
models needs to be carried out for improved water flux simulations including Himalayan
river catchment, due to challenging terrain and transboundary catchments.
High resolution Soil Moisture Retrieval (SAC)
A majority of prior investigations into soil moisture estimation using SAR have
predominantly relied on single-frequency data sourced mainly from C-band remote
A4.3
sensing systems. Development of multi-frequency and multi-polarization SAR models
for retrieval of soil moisture taking into account forthcoming sensors such as NISAR,
EOS-09 etc.
Wetland Health modeling (SAC)
Comprehensive eco-hydrological assessment of wetlands is essential for conservation,
planning and management of wetland eco-system. There is a need to develop a
A4.4
framework for wetland health monitoring using remote sensing observations with focus
on water quality, spatial and temporal variability, eutrophication modelling, impact of
climate change, biological indicator, pollution source etc.
Isotope Hydrology (SAC)
Satellite-observed isotope ratio for estimation of catchment scale water balance has
not been studied for Indian basins. With availability of long-term isotope datasets in the
A4.5
recent years, it is necessary to quantify surface water fluxes using water isotopes. Sensor
system studies need to be carried out to define the next generation of sensors capable
of detecting isotope ratios from ultrafine measurements.
Submarine Ground Water Discharge (SAC)
Quantification of water flow into ocean through sub marine ground water discharge is
a challenge for Indian coast. High resolution thermal remote sensing observations from
A4.6
drone and space borne platforms provide initial signals of SGD in coastal region. There
is need to identify the hot spot regions of SGD in Indian coast and develop model to
estimate the discharge of fresh water going into the ocean.
239

--- Page 254 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Surface and ground water interactions and understanding the impact of
anthropogenic activities (SAC)
A4.7 How surface and ground water availability is changing in space and time using
SWOT, GRACE and LSM models along with science of changing water cycle which is
accelerating/decelerating from local to regional to global scales.
Hyperfine hydrological modelling to address the social hydrology involving local
drivers of change (SAC)
A4.8 There is need to setup the hydrological models at much finer spatial resolutions
(~ 50 meter) and simulate the water fluxes to provide the solutions at local scales and
addressing the social hydrology.
Lake thermal Modelling under changing climate scenarios (SAC)
Lack of thermal observations and modelling of Indian freshwater systems lead to poorly
A4.9 constrained weather predictions and climate processes. In this context, how does
increasing anthropogenic stress and climate change affect thermal dynamics of fresh
water ecosystems?
Long term changes in available hydrological ECVs and linkages with hydro-climatic
extremes (SAC)
A4.10 Is there any positive or negative linkages/feedback between hydrological variability
and extremes events for possibility of early detection mechanism through satellite
observations?
Paleochannel study for sustainable groundwater management (IIRS)
Paleochannels are mainly remnants of the ancient river system that act as a source
for fresh groundwater reservoirs, making them crucial for understanding regional
hydrology. These paleochannels are filled with younger sediments and varying
geological compositions ranging from unconsolidated to well-cemented sediments.
Integrated geospatial and geophysical technology have transfigured the ability to map
and analyze the buried ancient river network. The surface expression and morphology
mapping of the paleochannels can be detected using remote sensing techniques such as
Microwave/LiDAR/aerial photography. Also, data obtained from high-resolution optical,
A4.11
multispectral, and hyperspectral sensors can characterize the geological landforms of
that area and these features shall help in analyzing the mineralogy, lithology, paleo
geomorphology, topography, climate change and role of active tectonics in the
formation and detection of the paleochannels. Geophysical methods such as electrical
resistivity tomography (ERT), Seismic reflection/refraction tomography and ground
penetrating radar (GPR) play a vital role in quantifying the characteristics (structural/
hydrological properties/water storage potential) of these buried paleochannels. The
study of these paleochannels can provides a comprehensive viewpoint on human
societies, environmental changes, and water systems both past and present.
240

--- Page 255 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
This project aims to deliver insights about the characterisation and quantification of
palaeochannels through the implementation of geospatial alongwith geophysical
techniques. It will also examine the relation among palaeomorphology, climate change
and tectonic activity, thereby highlighting how these factors significantly sculpt the
ancient fluvial environment. Consequently, this study will also focus on establishing
kinship between archaeological features and paleochannel systems, which will further
help in perceiving an idea of the palaeochannel contribution in understanding the past
civilization and resource utilization.
Terrain Characterization in Hydrological Properties of Soils (NESAC)
Developing / improving models for terrain characteristics of soil (Texture, Structure,
A4.12
Saturated hydraulic conductivity (Ksat), Consistence, Bulk density, Available water
capacity (AWC))with respect to hydrological properties.
A5 Sub Area Geo Hazards ( NESAC / SAC)
Study of potentially hazardous geological events (SAC)
This theme focus on the study of geodynamical processes related to potentially
hazardous geological events using advanced space based techniques. Space geodetic
techniques such as GNSS and InSAR have been extensity used to understand the strain
A5.1 accumulation and release processes and there by the seismic hazard in regions like the
Himalayas and active seismic zones in peninsular India. Other active areas of research
include quantification of land subsidence due to over exploitation of ground water,
coal, hydrocarbons and crustal deformation associated with volcanos and slow-moving
landslides using geodetic measurements for hazard assessment.
2D Flood Inundation Modelling - Simulation of flood Inundated Areas for a Given
Discharge using DEM and other Inputs from Satellite Data (NESAC)
A5.2 To explore the applicability of hydro-dynamic equations in various conditions of overland
flood wave propagation on different floodplain topographies. Inter comparison of
different DEM products for 2 dimensional hydraulic simulations.
Flood Early Warning System (NESAC)
Calibration and validations of all distributed river/tributary models in Brahmaputra and
A5.3 Barak river valleys with available hydro-logical and river geometry datasets. Sensitivity
analysis of various model parameters to understand the hydrologic response of various
types of river catchments in the said study area.
Flood Hazard Zonation and Risk Assessment in Major Riverine and urban Flood
Prone Catchments (NESAC)
A5.4 Applicability of various approaches of flood hazard zonation such as flood frequency
based hydraulic simulations, inundation occurrence based FHZ and NESAC developed
multi-criteria analysis in both riverine and urban flooding conditions.
241

--- Page 256 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Integration of Satellite Based Inputs Along with DEM for Forecasting a Flood
A5.5
Discharge and to Provide Early Warning (NESAC)
Thunderstorm Now-casting Modelling (NESAC)
A5.6
Developing AI & ML based Thunderstorm now-casting model.
Geospatial Data portals and Information Science (NESAC / NRSC /
B Area
SAC)
B1 Sub Area Bhuvan (NRSC)
Real time Statistical Analysis, behavior & sensitivity of users in accessing Bhuvan
Geo-Portal (NRSC)
Collection of log data from geo-portal web applications plays a vital role in taking
decisions on certain aspects like deriving insights, business intelligence, security
measures are some of the examples. Data analysis contains collecting, processing,
and interpreting data from the web services / Applications to derive insights. Behavior
Analysis includes how much time the user has spent on the webpages and what services
it has been consumed. This analysis will help in maintaining the web application in
B1.1
effective use.
User sensitivity analysis in the spatial domain on a web portal typically involves evaluating
how variations in spatial parameters or user input affect outcomes or decision-making
within a geographic or spatially enabled application. The factors that impact analysis are
traffic metrics, performance metrics, user experience, content and feature and technical
infrastructure impact. The key steps to represent the study are define the boundary of
objective, considerable key variables, create a baseline, simulate changes, measurable
outcomes, evaluation methods, clear visual representation of results.
Blockchain technology for verifying geospatial based crowd sourcing data integrity
(NRSC)
Blockchain can provide data integrity, transparency, and security for geospatial
crowdsourcing applications. Crowdsourced geospatial data is widely used in applications
such as disaster response, urban planning, environmental monitoring, and navigation.
B1.2
A major challenge is ensuring data integrity, authenticity, and reliability, as malicious
actors or errors can compromise data quality. Blockchain technology offers a
decentralized, immutable, and tamper-proof solution for verifying geospatial data. The
study must focus on navigation and mapping services representing crowdsourced GPS
data can be verified to prevent misrepresentation, enhance accuracy for Bhuvan maps.
Deep Learning-Based Image Compression for High-Resolution Satellite Images for
Web Hosting and Analysis (NRSC)
B1.3
The Satellite images are crucial for remote sensing applications like, urban studies, water
resources studies, agriculture studies, environmental monitoring, etc. High-resolution
242

--- Page 257 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
satellite images are used to host and overlay on the results of such applications.
Which results in requirement of significant storage and bandwidth, making efficient
compression method a need. Traditional compression methods (JPEG, PNG) lead to
quality loss or inefficient storage, motivating the use of deep learning-based approaches.
The study must focus on deep learning approaches for image compression like satellite,
aerial and drone data to host on web. Implement for web host and analysis with two
examples, performance metrics and comparisons. The study must also focus on image
fidelity, adapting different models for different type of sensors and its resolution.
Quality assessment techniques for crowdsourced geospatial data (NRSC)
Assessing the quality of crowdsourced geospatial data is critical for ensuring its
reliability in applications like mapping, decision making tools, and infrastructure
monitoring activities. The Quality Assessment Techniques for Crowdsourced Geospatial
Data must adhere to geospatial data quality standards addressing the minimum quality
B1.4
parameters like positional accuracy, thematic accuracy (correctness of attributes details),
temporal accuracy (Timeliness of updates and relevance over time), completeness,
logical consistency (data structure rules) and usability. The study must also represent
data biasness, AI driven checks and scalability to handle large datasets with real time
verification techniques.
Generative AI models for cloud replacement in satellite images (NRSC)
Cloud replacement in satellite images using generative AI is a promising research area
focused on generating realistic, cloud-free images by reconstructing obscured regions.
Cloud cover significantly reduces the usability of satellite imagery for critical applications
such as land use monitoring, disaster management, and agricultural assessment. To
B1.5 address this challenge, the study should propose the development of an advanced
Generative AI model capable of intelligently identifying and replacing clouds with
contextually accurate data, ensuring spatial consistency, preserving fine details, and
maintaining spectral accuracy. It should leverage state-of-the-art generative models like
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), Diffusion Models, and Transformers to achieve
high-quality cloud removal.
B2 Sub Area Visualization of Earth Data & Archival System –VEDAS (SAC)
Algorithms / Procedures for Time Series Visualization (SAC)
VEDAS is responsible for archival and dissemination of thematic data and data products
available within SAC. Large amount of spatial time series data is collected over time
and visualization of available spatiotemporal data is essential for exploring and
B2.1
understanding structures and patterns, and to identify unusual observations or hidden
patterns. However, the volume of data available and number of concurrent users that
may be accessing the data challenges current time series map visualisation. The start
and end time of episodic events or span of intensive observations may also be dynamic.
243

--- Page 258 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
So algorithms are required to be developed and modern techniques are required to be
used for visualization of large spatio-temporal (ST) datasets ordered in time for animated
mapping. This will be further used for exploring or monitoring unusual observations in
large datasets like NDVI, snow, temperature, solar insolation etc.
Data Analytics and Knowledge Discovery (SAC)
To understand and appreciate a natural phenomenon and attach cause and effects to an
evolution, there is a growing demand of rendering “on the fly” multi-layer information.
There may be concurrent users accessing same set of data. So there is motivation to
parallelize computation to improve turn around time of a service. The research initiatives
will be useful steps towards achieving this goal. Design & Development of parallelizable
algorithms for interactive geospatial data analysis with high temporal resolution. Design
B2.2
& Development of parallel execution frameworks and/or distributed computing libraries
for geospatial data processing operations. Design and Development of scalable general
purpose systems/algorithms for removing noise from spatiotemporal datasets. Design
and Development of scalable general purpose systems/algorithms for predictive analytics
from spatiotemporal datasets. Design and Development of data-mining algorithms for
spatial-temporal datasets. Design and Development of scalable techniques for semantic
segmentation of orthoimagery.
Super Resolution Image Generation (SAC)
Super Resolution is an Image Processing technique which is used to enhance the image
resolution of scene from a number of lower resolution images of same area by reducing
B2.3 effects of noise in the reconstructed image. In case of satellite images, this can be seen
as a powerful tool of getting high resolution multispectral images (spatial) from low
resolution panchromatic images. This will facilitate improved (in spatial scale) Land
cover for better natural resource management.
Web Enabled Sensor System for Efficient Resource Management (SAC)
There is need to develop a prototype and demonstrate the applicability of wealth of
information that can be gathered by set of remotely located instruments. Instruments
can measure the meteorological conditions as well as ambient conditions and transmit
B2.4 the data to a central hub. Air quality monitoring of a region is a one such example
where measurements of PM2.5 and PM10, concentrations of target gases (NOx and SOx
– for example), their dispersal (based on wind direction and speed), temperature and
humidity are all required by administrators and managers to issue advisory and / or take
pro-active preventive measures.
Meteorology and Oceanography Data Archival Centre – MOSDAC
B3 Sub Area
(SAC)
Advanced Data and Computing Architecture (SAC)
B3.1 • Optimized Data Cubes for multi-dimensional aggregation of satellite images and
their spatiotemporal analysis.
244

--- Page 259 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
• Techniques for forecasting and in-painting in Data Cubes
• High Performance Computing of satellite images on Cloud
Data Visualisation and Web Processing (SAC)
• Advanced data rendering and fast visualization techniques of 2D and 3D satellite
data.
B3.2
• Fast Tiling and caching techniques for visualization of satellite Images.
• Development of techniques for automatic on-demand web mashup generation.
• Cloud and Semantic enabling of Web Processing Services.
Data Security and Information Dissemination (SAC)
• Data encryption and compression techniques for multicasting of satellite data
• Customization and optimization of multi-cast protocol using critical distance of client
B3.3 nodes to cater to requirements of real-time data dissemination.
• Content based data multicasting.
• Information and Data security models for small devices.
• Location aware satellite data dissemination for mobile devices.
Data Mining and Web Analytics (SAC)
• Real time analytics for Big Earth Data
• Pattern recognition based techniques for Event detection
• Geospatial feature extraction using deep learning techniques
B3.4
• Automated event tracking (Cyclone, dust storm, etc.) using machine learning
techniques
• Region growing algorithms for identification and tracking of meteorological and
oceanographic events (Fog, bloom, convective initiation, etc.)
Data and Information Lifecycle Management (SAC)
• Automated algorithms for value evaluation of data and information
• Techniques for automatic Quality checking of data
B3.5 • Techniques for Persistent identifier management
• Techniques for generation of Linked data
• Faceted search and Browsing of satellite images
• Semantic annotation and labelling of satellite images
IoT and Sensor Network (SAC)
• IoT enabled sensor network for acquisition of weather data
• Smart weather data acquisition systems
B3.6
• RTOS based Data acquisition system
• Virtual Sensors for Weather data acquisition
• Optimal data capture and processing in Sensor Network
245

--- Page 260 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Virtualization and Cloud Computing (SAC)
• High Performance Cloud for Satellite Image Processing
B3.7
• Network Virtualization and Software Defined Network
• Software Defined Storage
B4 Sub Area Geo-Web Services portal of NESAC (NESAC)
Advanced Data and Computing Architecture (NESAC)
• Optimized Data Cubes for multi-dimensional aggregation of satellite images and
B4.1 their spatiotemporal analysis.
• Techniques for forecasting and in-painting in Data Cubes
• High Performance Computing of satellite images on Cloud
Data Visualisation and Web Processing (NESAC)
• Advanced data rendering and fast visualization techniques of 2D and 3D satellite
data
B4.2
• Fast Tiling and caching techniques for visualization of satellite Images
• Development of techniques for automatic on-demand web mashup generation
Cloud and Semantic enabling of Web Processing Services
Urban Planning and Urban Climate Studies ( IIRC / NESAC / NRSC /
C Area
SAC)
C1 Sub Area Urban Feature Extraction (NESAC / NRSC / SAC)
Urban Feature Extraction - Road Network Delineation (SAC)
Transportation networks such as roads and railway lines are important for several urban
applications including disaster management, urban planning, impervious surface
extraction, urban growth modelling etc. The automatic methods such as template
C1.1
matching, object-based classifiers and machine learning methods such as neural
networks, support vector machines, deep learning etc. can be used to efficiently extract
road network from very high-resolution optical and SAR images acquired by Indian
Remote Sensing satellites.
Urban Feature Extraction - Impervious Surface / Urban Area Mapping (SAC)
The mapping of urban land cover remains a challenging task owing to the high spectral
C1.2 and spatial heterogeneity of urban environment. The accuracy of urban area extraction
can be improved by combining multi-temporal, multiresolution and multi-sensor optical
and SAR earth observation data.
Urban Feature Extraction - 3D Building Reconstruction (SAC)
The 2D and 3D information of buildings and other urban structures are needed not
C1.3
only for impressive visualisation of urban areas, but also as an input in several urban
applications like population estimation, roof-top solar energy potential assessment,
246

--- Page 261 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
visibility studies etc. Building extraction from high-resolution satellite images in urban
areas is an intricate problem. Techniques are to be developed for automatic extraction
of buildings from Very High Resolution optical data. The availability of very high-
resolution imagery from Cartosat series data necessitates development of techniques
and algorithms for 3D building reconstruction.
Assessment of urban infrastructure quality using High Resolution satellite image
and AI/ML (NRSC)
Rapid urbanization of Indian cities has resulted in the emergence of slums, informal
settlements, and sprawls characterized by inadequate housing, limited road
connectivity, poor sanitation, and insufficient basic infrastructure. Traditional ground-
based methods of identifying and mapping these impoverished areas are labour-
intensive and time consuming, limiting effective policy interventions. High-resolution
C1.4
satellite imagery coupled with advanced artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning
algorithms, offers a promising alternative to systematically and objectively identify and
map slums and other poverty clusters. Utilizing remote sensing for urban infrastructure
quality assessment enables precise, timely, and scalable detection of vulnerable urban
settlements. Such an approach could significantly enhance targeted policy-making,
resource allocation, and urban planning decisions, ultimately improving the living
standards and socio-economic conditions of urban populations across India.
3D surface Modelling and Features Capturing of UAV/UAS data (NESAC)
C1.5
Development of efficient model for extraction of 3D surface from UAV/UAS data.
C2 Sub Area Urban Climate (IIRS / NRSC / SAC)
Understanding and modelling fog in urban areas (IIRS)
Urban growth leads to complex urban morphologies, consisting of dense, high-rise
structures interspersed with fragmented greenspaces. All of these have profound
impacts on the local atmospheric processes, including fog formation and dissipation.
The intricate arrangement of buildings, streets, vegetation, and open spaces influences
local meteorological conditions such as wind flow, temperature variations, and humidity
distribution, all of which are critical factors in fog dynamics. Urbanization introduces
artificial heat sources, increased surface roughness, and altered moisture balance,
C2.1
leading to significant modifications in fog patterns compared to surrounding rural areas.
The urban heat island (UHI) effect, caused by heat-retaining materials like concrete
and asphalt, often reduces fog persistence by increasing near-surface temperatures.
However, in certain conditions, urban structures can also trap moisture and limit airflow,
creating localized pockets where fog may persist longer. Additionally, pollution and
aerosols from transportation and industrial activities contribute to the condensation
process, influencing fog intensity and composition. Understanding these interactions is
essential for urban climate studies, as fog affects visibility, transportation, public health,
247

--- Page 262 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
and energy consumption. High-resolution urban morphology data can enhance
numerical weather prediction models to improve fog forecasting in cities. This is
particularly relevant in densely populated urban regions where visibility reduction
due to fog poses risks to mobility and safety. By integrating advanced remote sensing
technologies, urban climate modeling, and in-situ observations, this project aims to
quantify how different urban forms influence fog events. Such studies are crucial for
developing climate-responsive urban designs that mitigate negative impacts while
preserving ecological balance. In an era of rapid urban expansion and climate change,
understanding the complex interplay between urban morphology and fog is vital for
ensuring resilient and adaptive city planning, particularly in regions prone to frequent
fog events.
Assessment of urban precipitation extremes in changing climate (NRSC)
Despite significant advancements in our understanding of precipitation processes
in recent years, there remain several gaps in knowledge that need to be addressed
in order to gain deeper insights into the mechanisms involved in urban precipitation
C2.2
processes. The scope of the proposed research is to examine the sensitivity of urban
precipitation extremes using INSAT-derived rainfall. To identify the factors that influence
the rainfall patterns in regional as well as large-scale processes and quantify the impact
of urbanization on regional rainfall patterns.
Urban Heat Island (SAC)
Spatial and Temporal Distribution of Urban Heat Islands on Land Surface and Near
Surface Atmosphere Development of models for deriving day-time and night-time air
temperature from satellite-derived land surface temperature and vegetation indices can
assist in identification and analysis of spatial and temporal distribution of urban heat
C2.3 islands.
Impact of Land Cover Types on Urban Heat Islands The changes in land use-land cover
pattern anddeclining vegetation cover in cities are predominant factors influencing
the growth of urban heat islands in the cities. Satellite data derived land use land cover
information can be compared with the temperature profiles to assess the impact of land
cover on urban heat islands.
Vulnerability Profiling of Capital Cities of NER (NESAC)
Urban areas are susceptible to disasters (man-made or natural). It is the need of the hour
to make a rapid vulnerability assessment of urban areas in order to understand what
C2.4 is required for building disaster resilience community. The potential impact of different
parameters on urban services arising from the geographical setting of a city; the nature,
size and density of its settlements; and the existing coping capacity of its society and
governance system can be studied to create vulnerable profile of urban areas.
248

--- Page 263 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
D Area Signal & Image Processing & Data Product (NESAC / NRSC / SAC)
Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) Data processing and products
D1 Sub Area
(NRSC / SAC)
Infrastructure mapping and monitoring using AI/ML techniques from Synthetic
Aperture Radar SAR Data (SAC)
Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) is an active microwave sensor that can take images of
targets during day as well as night and can also penetrate cloud cover. The high resolution
images acquired by SAR can be used to map and monitor various infrastructure such as
highways, airports, railway, bridges, buildings, vegetation etc. With availability of large
amount of images from past, current and future SAR missions, a software for classification
and temporal monitoring of government and non-government assets can be very useful
D1.1
for administrative purposes. The prime focus of this research is design and development
of AI/ML based technique for identification and classification of infrastructure in the
readily available SAR image datasets. The infrastructures thus identified can be added
to a library which can be referred by government/non-government agencies for various
planning and temporal monitoring activities. It will also enable the monitoring of the
areas for which optical images may not be available around the year due to cloud cover/
day-night issues. SAR Images from RISAT-1 / RISAT-1A(EOS-04) / RISAT-1B (EOS-09)
missions can be used for this activity.
Moving Targets identification and their parameter estimation from SAR Images
(SAC)
During Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) imaging, the sensor is flown in an Aircraft/
spacecraft, pulses are sent and the return echoes are recorded. While processing, the
range and the relative motion between sensor and target (earth) is utilized to generate
images. In SAR, the background region, called clutter, is the region of interest and it is
assumed to be stationary and SAR image focusing is done. Moving targets likes cars,
trains, etc. in the images are defocused and/or displaced and may appear as artifact
in the image. Primary focus of this research is algorithm and corresponding software
D1.2 development for
• Moving Target detection using state of art along track interferometry techniques
• Moving Target detection in Raw/Processed SAR datasets
• Estimation of target parameters like position and velocity
• Focusing of moving targets in SAR images
• Removal of artefacts from SAR images generated due to moving targets
Getting information of moving targets for SAR image will provide valuable information
in utilization of SAR images in strategic applications. Artefact removal and refocusing of
moving targets in SAR images will result in enhanced SAR image quality. Additionally, the
work will help in designing the state of the art SAR systems for moving target indication.
249

--- Page 264 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Passive Bi-static SAR Image Formation using GNSS Signals (SAC)
Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) are microwave sensors and have day night & all
weather imaging capability. In SAR, pulses are transmitted from Airborne/Spaceborne
platforms and return echoes are recorded. These return echoes are used to form the
high resolution SAR images using signal processing methods. Image formation, in
cases where receivers are at different platform than the transmitter, is termed as passive
bistatic SAR image formation. Globally, around the earth, many microwave systems are
working in microwave frequency range suitable for SAR image formation. Navigations
D1.3
systems like GPS & IRNSS, are such type of systems primarily operating in L & S Band.
Reflected signal corresponding to the signals transmitted from these systems are being
recorded in passive receiver (like GNSS-R onboard Microsat-2C, CyGNSS). These are
signals of opportunity which are highly reliable & stable and can be used for SAR image
formation as well.Design and development of techniques for SAR image formation from
GNSS signals and corresponding software implementation is the primary focus of this
research. This research has the potential to generate SAR images using low cost receiver
only systems with enormous applications.
Multi-Satellite SAR Image Co-Registration (NRSC)
Multi-satellite Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) image co-registration is essential for
accurate time-series analysis, change detection, and thematic applications. Co-
registration between SAR images acquired in different frequency bands (L-S, L-X, L-C, S-C,
etc.) presents significant challenges due to variations in wavelength, polarization, and
imaging geometry. Misalignment between images can lead to errors in classification,
interferometry, and geophysical parameter retrieval. The research should aim to develop
D1.4
novel image processing techniques, integrating advanced machine learning and deep
learning models, to achieve sub-pixel accuracy in multi-band SAR image registration. The
study shall explore feature-based, texture-based, and pixel-offset methods to improve
spatial alignment. The developed methodology can be validated on openly available SAR
datasets covering diverse landscapes, ensuring robustness and accuracy. The research
will contribute to enhancing Analysis Ready Data (ARD) for improved SAR applications,
including disaster monitoring, environmental assessment, and resource mapping.
D2 Sub Area Hyperspectral and LiDAR Data processing and Products (SAC)
Hyperspectral and LiDAR Data Fusion for Enhanced Remote Sensing Analysis (SAC)
Remote sensing technologies, such as Hyperspectral Imaging (HSI) and Light Detection
and Ranging (LiDAR), provide valuable environmental and geographical data. While HSI
D2.1 offers detailed spectral information across a wide range of wavelengths, LiDAR captures
precise three-dimensional (3D) spatial data, enabling high-resolution topographic
measurements. Integrating these two datasets can significantly enhance our ability to
analyze complex environments by combining spectral, spatial, and geometric features.
250

--- Page 265 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
The research should explore and implement recent trends in machine learning and deep
learning models to achieve the hyperspectral and LiDAR fused output.
The goal of this research is to develop a robust framework for the fusion of Hyperspectral
and LiDAR data to improve object detection, land cover classification, and environmental
monitoring. The research objectives are as follows.
1. To explore the potential benefits of fusing hyperspectral and LiDAR data for improved
landscape classification, particularly in vegetation and urban areas.
2. To develop and assess fusion algorithms that leverage both the spectral and spatial
dimensions of these datasets.
3. To evaluate the fusion’s ability to detect and characterize environmental features
such as vegetation health, urban structures, and terrain variation.
The fusion of hyperspectral and LiDAR data will enable more accurate and efficient
classification of land cover types, particularly in challenging environments where
either modality alone may be insufficient. It will also enhance our understanding of
environmental changes over time, providing a powerful tool for monitoring ecosystems,
urban development, and natural disasters.
LIDAR Remote Sensing for Land Applications (SAC)
• Development of processing algorithms for LIDAR data for land applications, which
D2.2 includes Tree height and structure mapping.
• Development of fusion techniques for LIDAR and fine resolution optical data for
species diversity mapping.
Satellites Data Processing and Development of Data Models /
D3 Sub Area
Products (IIRS / NRSC / SAC)
Data Product Pixel Quality layer generation using Machine learning (NRSC)
The revolutionized remote sensing technology plays a vital role to monitor and
understand planet’s surface, atmosphere and environment. The huge data generated by
remote sensing (RS) satellites presents both an opportunity and a challenge for effective
analysis and interpretation. Optical RS images are hindered by clouds and cloud shadows
for feature extraction. Similarly hill shadows and zero-fills may impact the classification
accuracy. Snow and clouds need additional attention. Water is also to delineated in
D3.1
some cases to derive geo-physical parameters of interest. It would be a good practice to
delineate these pixels and to provide the classified information in separate pixel-quality
layer for more accurate geo-physical parameter retrieval. It is also mandatory to have a
pixel quality layer for next-generation Analysis-Ready-Data(ARD) products to maintain
the interoperability among global sensors. Presently the deep learning techniques have
emerged as a potential tool for automatic classification of RS images with significant
advantages over traditional state-of-art methods.
251

--- Page 266 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
The proposed research is to realize pixel quality information layer from a multispectral
data product by amalgamating relevant ML models for feature delineation at pixel level.
Development of BRDF (Bidirectional Distribution Function) models for accurate
estimation of Surface Reflectance (NRSC)
Wide swath optical images are often acquired by sensors with large field of view that
results in directional reflectance effects over non-Lambertian surfaces due to surface
reflectance anisotropy and changes in the solar and viewing geometry. This uncertainty
effects the radiometric normalization and cross-validation of sensors. These effects
are often described by the bidirectional reflectance distribution function (BRDF) and
D3.2
can be non-trivial. Sensor View angle Effects are significant than the solar geometric
effects. Current state of art techniques to retrieve surface reflectance from TOA radiance
assumes the object under study as lambertian but in reality it is not.
The proposed research is focused on the quantification of angular effects in surface
reflectance and computation of coefficients to derive nadir adjusted reflectances for all
operational wide swath IRS data products.
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI/ML) approach for processing
Ocean Colour satellite data for Chlorophyll retrieval (NRSC)
Processing of Ocean colour data for retrieval of bio-geophysical products like Chlorophyll,
Kd etc. is quite complex, which involves radiative transfer theory, bio-optical algorithms,
D3.3
complex quality flagging etc. This study aims to attempt use of AIML tools for processing
optical ocean colour satellite data, which has advantage of improved accuracy, faster
processing & automation, better handling of missing data, fusion with other data sets,
adaptability and scalability.
Building a Quantum Computing-Based Foundation Model for Feature Extraction
from High-Resolution Oblique Satellite Imagery Obtained from Small Satellite
Constellations addressing Intra-Class Variance and Large-Scale Distortion (IIRS)
Quantum computing offers a powerful means to process large-scale satellite datasets by
representing high-dimensional multivariate model states. This project aims to develop
a foundational model that can accurately extract high-resolution features, such as trees
and buildings, from satellite images taken from oblique geometries using quantum
D3.4
algorithms. The model will be designed to handle satellite parameters similar to those
of small satellite systems, with resolutions ranging from 5 meters to 50 centimeters. It
will ensure robustness and accuracy in feature extraction at less than half a pixel without
requiring preprocessing, addressing challenges like intra-class feature variance and
large-scale distortion due to relief and view angles.
The objectives of the project include developing quantum algorithms capable of
handling high-dimensional multivariate models and addressing issues related to
252

--- Page 267 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
intra-class feature variance and distortions. The project will also focus on building a
foundational model that accurately extracts high-resolution features from oblique
satellite images and is agnostic to satellite parameters. Additionally, the project will
evaluate the performance of the quantum algorithm and foundational model against
traditional methods, assess improvements in accuracy, processing time, and robustness,
and demonstrate practical applications through case studies. The deliverables will include
a fully developed quantum algorithm, a robust foundational model, a comprehensive
performance report, detailed case studies, and complete documentation with source
code and usage instructions.
Development of Foundation Model for Satellite Images (SAC)
Satellite imagery plays a pivotal role in addressing global challenges such as climate
monitoring, disaster management, urban planning, and defence. However, the
vast volume and complexity of satellite data require advanced analytical tools.
Foundation models, pre-trained on large-scale datasets, have revolutionized fields
like natural language processing and computer vision. Developing a foundation
model specifically for satellite images can unlock unprecedented capabilities in
automating analysis, improving accuracy, and enabling cross-domain applications,
thereby enhancing decision-making for space organizations and stakeholders.
The objective of studies are as follows:
1. To design and train a foundation model tailored for satellite imagery, leveraging
large-scale datasets from diverse sources.
2. To enable multi-task learning for applications like land cover classification, object
detection, and change detection.
D3.5
3. To improve generalization across geographic regions, sensors, and resolutions.
4. To provide an open-source framework for fine-tuning and deployment in downstream
tasks.
The scope of studies are as follows:
The project will focus on developing a scalable, transformer-based architecture trained
on datasets of Indian landscape from different Indian satellite (e.g., HRSAT, Cartosat,
Resourcesat, NISAR, Microsat, RISAT etc.) catering data across different modality of
optical and infrared data to SAR data, high-resolution data to coarse resolution imagery.
The model will be evaluated on benchmark tasks and real-world use cases, ensuring
adaptability to various space organization needs.
Methodologies:
1. Data Collection and Preprocessing: Curate a diverse dataset of satellite images with
annotations for supervised and self-supervised learning.
253

--- Page 268 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
2. Model Design: Implement a vision transformer (ViT) or hybrid CNN-transformer
model optimized for multi-spectral and multi-temporal data.
3. Training: Utilize self-supervised learning techniques (e.g., masked autoencoding) to
pre-train the model on unlabeled data, followed by fine-tuning on specific tasks.
4. Evaluation: Benchmark performance on tasks like segmentation, classification, and
anomaly detection using standard metrics.
Possible Outcomes:
1. A robust foundation model capable of handling diverse satellite imagery tasks.
2. Reduced dependency on task-specific models, saving time and computational
resources.
3. Enhanced interoperability across datasets and sensors, enabling seamless integration
into existing workflows.
Utilizing Neural Radiance Fields for Multi-View Geometry Reconstruction in
Satellite Imagery for DEM and DSM Generation (SAC)
Digital Elevation Models (DEM) and Digital Surface Models (DSM) are crucial for
various geospatial applications, including topographic mapping, urban planning,
and environmental monitoring. Traditional methods for DEM/DSM generation,
such as photogrammetry and LiDAR, can be computationally expensive and
sensitive to data quality. Additionally, photogrammetric approaches require high-
quality stereo pairs with consistent lighting conditions, while LiDAR is costly and
limited by accessibility constraints. The increasing availability of high-resolution
satellite imagery presents an opportunity to explore alternative methodologies
that can leverage deep learning techniques for enhanced 3D reconstruction.
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have demonstrated impressive results in reconstructing
D3.6 3D geometry from sparse 2D images by modeling volumetric scenes with high fidelity.
However, existing NeRF implementations are optimized primarily for synthetic or
ground-based images, with limited studies addressing large-scale aerial or satellite-
based reconstructions. This research aims to bridge this gap by developing a NeRF-
based framework tailored for multi-view satellite imagery, enabling accurate and
scalable DEM and DSM generation. If successful, this approach could significantly
improve terrain modeling efficiency and precision, benefiting industries such as
agriculture, disaster response, and military reconnaissance. In addition, this method
has direct applications in high resolution satellites such as HRSat and Cartosat.
Objectives
1. Investigate the feasibility of applying NeRF to reconstruct high-fidelity 3D structures
from multi-view satellite images, considering factors such as atmospheric distortions,
varying resolutions, and occlusions.
254

--- Page 269 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
2. Develop an optimized pipeline for training NeRF on satellite datasets to generate
DEM and DSM, incorporating domain-specific modifications such as multi-scale
feature representations and geospatial constraints.
3. Compare the accuracy, resolution, and computational efficiency of NeRF-based
reconstruction with traditional photogrammetry and LiDAR-based methods to assess
its viability for large-scale applications.
4. Explore potential enhancements to NeRF, such as integrating hybrid neural
representations, incorporating auxiliary sensor data (e.g., synthetic aperture radar),
and leveraging super-resolution techniques for improved terrain detail extraction.
Expected Outcomes
1. A validated framework for leveraging NeRF in DEM and DSM generation from satellite
imagery.
2. Improved elevation models with enhanced resolution and accuracy compared to
traditional methods.
3. Insights into the applicability and limitations of NeRF in large-scale remote sensing
tasks.
Automatic Road Extraction Using High-Resolution Satellite Imagery (SAC)
This research focuses on developing an automatic road extraction model using high-
resolution satellite imagery and deep learning techniques. Road networks are critical
for transportation, urban planning, and disaster management. However, manual road
extraction from high resolution satellite images is time-consuming and error-prone.
This study proposes a deep learning-based framework leveraging Convolutional Neural
Networks (CNNs) and Transformer-based architectures to enhance road detection
accuracy, reduce occlusions, and improve computational efficiency. The research
aims to develop a robust model that generalizes across different environments
and datasets, contributing to remote sensing and geospatial analysis applications.
Research Objectives:
D3.7
1. Develop an automatic road extraction model using high-resolution satellite imagery.
2. Improve segmentation accuracy using deep learning techniques.
3. Address challenges such as occlusions, varying road textures, and illumination
differences.
4. Evaluate model performance on multiple datasets for better generalization.
5. Optimize computational efficiency for real-time or near real-time applications.
Expected Outcomes:
This research aims to develop a high-accuracy road extraction model applicable to urban
planning, disaster response, and autonomous navigation, improving road segmentation
in complex environments.
255

--- Page 270 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
D4 Sub Area Data Mining (NESAC)
Algorithms for Knowledge Extraction from Big Data (NESAC)
Large volumes of data that cannot be stored in normal relational databases are being
generated every day from the remote sensing satellites. Many software elements extract
information from the raw data generating information in unstructured form such as
images, log files, user orders in pdf, word etc. There is a need for developing efficient
data mining algorithms to tag the data sets for facilitating efficient build up of archival
and retrieval.
• In general data mining algorithms work on data sets that are of reasonable size and
D4.1
cannot handle BIG data
• Develop Parallel Algorithms for mining the classification rules to facilitate data
archival in an optimal manner
• Develop mining algorithms that are Incremental and can learn and unlearn from the
continuous satellite data acquisitions
Develop algorithms for extracting meaningful trends in the customer ordering, build
customer satisfaction index, predict the future sales or potential sensors or popular
products etc.,
E Area Atmospheric Science and its applications (NESAC / NRSC / SAC)
E1 Sub Area Climate Modelling (NESAC / NRSC / SAC)
Seasonal Prediction of Indian Summer Monsoon rainfall (ISMR) using Climate
Model (SAC)
The Indian summer monsoon (ISM) occurring every year from June through September,
is one of the most dominant features of the global hydrological cycle. It causes more
than 75% of annual rainfall over the country during this period. Although, the onset
of the monsoon over Kerala in India takes place at the start of June with the seasonal
reversal of wind over the Arabian Sea with a consistent manner from year after year, the
seasonal prediction of ISMR during the recent times become more and more challenging.
It is mainly due to several external factors both natural and manmade viz. the fast
E1.1 changing climate, the manmade changes in land-use-land-cover, The fast growing
infrastructure development activities in large scale over a landmass that significantly
modify the respective land surface properties, heat and water budget, composition of
atmospheric gases, aerosols etc. One of the biggest challenge is to model these changes
and incorporate the impact of them in medium to long-term model prediction.
Therefore, there is a recognized need to demonstrate the state-of-art seasonal prediction
of ISMR describing both the spatial and temporal variability of rainfall in conjunction
with the satellite and in-situ observations. A seasonal prediction system has been setup
at Space Applications Centre (SAC) Ahmedabad in research and operational mode.
256

--- Page 271 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
The experimental prediction of ISMR has been generated through 50-member ensemble
CAM model simulation during April every year and updated monthly till September.
Each ensemble member has been started with different initial conditions and sea-
surface boundary conditions. End of season (EOS) validation has been conducted every
year to measure the model prediction skill and to identify the shortcomings and lacuna
of the prediction system. It is a continuous evolving process of the prediction system to
improve its skill of prediction year after year.
Climate Change & LULC Dynamics (NRSC)
The relationship between climate change and LULC dynamics is complex and bi-
directional. Addressing both challenges requires coordinated efforts to reduce
emissions, protect and restore ecosystems, and adapt to changing climatic conditions.
Sustainable land use practices and effective climate policies are key to mitigating the
E1.2 impacts of both phenomena. Monitoring LULC and understanding its interactions with
climate change are critical for informed decision-making. Remote sensing, geographic
information systems (GIS), and climate modeling are often used to track LULC changes
and predict their impacts on future climate scenarios. There is a need to model climate
driven LULC change using machine learning algorithms and understanding impact of
carbon sequestration and its dynamics.
Satellite based Cloud Microphysical applications (SAC)
Data from multitude of satellite sensors are used to derive information about cloud
microphysical parameters. The study of cloud processes in microscale is also carried out to
E1.3 improve our understanding of many meteorological phenomena like monsoonal active
and break phases, tropical cyclone development, intrusion of dust into thunderstorm
and its impacts. In addition, we are also experimenting on different schemes to generate
a merged cloud microphysical product from optical sensors onboard different satellites.
Climate Change Impact assessment (NESAC)
Anticipated/Ensuing climate change is expected to alter the water resources availability,
demand and use patterns. Many uncertainties remain about the extent of these climatic
E1.4
changes, as well as about their societal implications. Assessment of vulnerability and
resulting risk to water resources due to climate-change impacts is necessary to work out
appropriate adaptation and mitigation strategies.
E2 Sub Area Weather Prediction (NESAC / SAC)
Impact of Atmospheric Chemistry on Weather Prediction (SAC)
Atmospheric aerosols have a large influence on air quality and, also in the well-being of
human and ecosystem. Aerosols affect the earth-atmosphere radiation budget directly
by scattering and absorbing the incoming solar radiation and indirectly by influencing
E2.1
the processes of formation of clouds and precipitation. Assimilation of satellite derived
aerosols and other chemical constituents in NWP along with the chemical transport
modelling have been planned . The impact of chemical data assimilation on mesoscale
weather prediction will be also studied.
257

--- Page 272 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Satellite and radar based weather nowcasting (SAC)
Satellite and radar data is being used for development of algorithms for nowcasting
and tracking of cloud and precipitating systems. INSAT-3D/3DR data is extensively used
for monitoring cloud growth and also for predicting the flow fields associated with
precipitating systems. The research outputs feeds into the operational nowcasting
E2.2 application hosted on the MOSDAC webportal for societal benefit. In conjunction,
Doppler weather radar (DWR) data is also used for developing algorithms to track and
predict the movement of convective systems. Polarimeteric radar has also been used to
develop Hydrometeor classification algorithm for more potential lightning prediction.
Furthermore advanced AI/ML are been experimented on, for better accuracy and longer
lead time. In near future blending of data / model outputs from different sources is future.
Assimilation of Satellite Data in Numerical Weather Prediction Models (SAC)
Accurate prediction of high-impact weather events and the area of the greatest threat
represent a major challenge for planners to minimize the loss of lives and damage to
property. Advance research is being planned to carry out non-linear data assimilation
E2.3 of satellite measurements in the numerical weather prediction (NWP) models. ISRO is
aiming at improving short-range weather forecasting using satellite observations. For
this activity various satellite observations are ingested in the NWP model using advance
data assimilation techniques. In addition, research is also focused to improve NWP
prediction using combination of Data Assimilation and Machine Learning methods.
Cyclone Track and Intensity Prediction Using Satellite Data and Numerical Models
(SAC)
Advance and accurate prediction of tropical cyclones is highly important for issuing the
warnings and saving the lives. Real-time winds obtained from scatterometer (SCATSAT-1)
E2.4 are used for tropical cyclogenesis predictions of all the low-pressure systems formed in
the North Indian Ocean. The cyclone track and intensity prediction is being done using
numerical models and satellite data that involves empirical and dynamic modelling and
assimilation techniques. The cyclone centric satellite products are generated, which are
very useful for cyclone positioning and its structure and intensity estimation.
Deep Learning Based Convective Cloud Detection using INSAT-3D/3DR/3DS data
(NESAC)
Thunderstorms, as mesoscale convective systems, can result in severe weather events
such as lightning, heavy rainfall, and hail. Cloud properties are often employed as
E2.5 indirect indicators for identifying thunderstorms, with satellite data proving invaluable
in offering wide-area, short-term measurements of moisture and atmospheric volatility.
Deep learning models, with properly labelled data, can efficiently learn intricate
patterns and relationships, enabling precise segmentation and classification of complex
non-unformed structures such as clouds.
258

--- Page 273 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
Heavy rainfall prediction over Indian region using Satellite Data, Radar data and
Numerical Weather Prediction models (NESAC)
Accurate heavy rainfall prediction is crucial for mitigating weather-induced disasters such
as floods and thunderstorms. Satellite-derived real-time wind data from INSAT-3D/3DR
play a vital role in improving monsoon rainfall simulations through data assimilation
techniques in Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) models. These observations are
particularly valuable in data-sparse regions, such as the complex terrain of India, where
conventional ground-based measurements are limited. In addition to satellite wind
E2.6 data, radar observations provide critical information on reflectivity and radial velocity,
enhancing the simulation of convective systems. Radar data can be assimilated using
both direct and indirect methods. The indirect approach, where water vapor information
is derived from reflectivity and then assimilated into the model, has been shown to
improve forecasts of isolated heavy rainfall events.
Advanced data assimilation techniques, including 3DEnVAR, Hybrid-ETKF, and Hybrid-
EAKF, offer a sophisticated framework for incorporating these diverse observational
datasets into NWP models, leading to improved rainfall forecasts and better disaster
preparedness.
Physical Oceanography (Development of Blue Economy)
F Area
(SAC)
F1 Sub Area Numerical Models related to Ocean Studies (SAC)
Assimilation of Satellite/In Situ Data in Numerical Ocean Prediction Models:
Observation System Studies Experiment (SAC)
Assimilation of Satellite/In Situ Data in Numerical Ocean Prediction Models: Observation
System Studies Experiment (OSSE). Advance research is being carried out for assimilation
of satellite derived parameters salinity, temperature, sea level, wave height, ocean color
and wave spectrum) in ocean prediction models. This involves development of various
assimilation techniques for improving the initial condition in the models. Apart from
satellite data, lot of in situ measurements (glider, HF Radar, wave rider buoys etc.) are
F1.1 also being taken in the present. The outputs from these models are routinely available
on the mosdac.gov.in through the “Ocean Eye” and disseminated on request through an
automatized email based system.
In order to identify gap areas in the current space based observing systems, observing
system simulation experiments are performed for defining future sensor missions. This
require intensive modelling and optimization techniques to ascertain the importance
of satellite-based and in situ-based observations and to suggest optimum sensor
characteristic. Model tuning by parameter estimation using data driven techniques (like
AI/ML) can be an important step in improving the model simulations.
259

--- Page 274 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Study on Coastal dynamics Using Satellite and High Resolution Numerical Models
(SAC)
Coastal dynamics are extremely important to understand as it has significant implications
on coastal population. Currently following research topics are being envisaged in SAC:
• Storm surge and coastal inundation: In this component, numerical models and
satellite data are used to simulate and forecast the storm surge and inundation along
the Indian coasts during the event of cyclone. Impact of satellite derived winds is
also studied. This activity will be further extended to generate vulnerability maps for
F1.2 Indian coasts due to storm surge inundation in the climate change scenario.
• Oil spill trajectory forecasting is extremely important for planning the mitigation
steps in order to minimize the damage to the marine ecosystem due to an event of
oil spill. Advection based models have been developed in house in order to identify
the source of tar balls found on the beaches of various Indian coasts. Further research
with high resolution satellite currents (from combination of SWOT and Oceansat-3)
and introducing complexities in the trajectory models is being carried out. Finite
time Lyapunov exponent (FTLE) fields derived from satellite currents are available on
MOSDAC that help to forecast pathways of oil spill.
Seasonal Ocean Prediction with Coupled Atmosphere-Ocean Models (SAC)
Forecast of anomalous oceanic conditions (Dipole/El Nino) at least one season in
advance is of high importance as it has direct influence on the Indian Summer Monsoon.
These seasonal to long term forecasts are required to be done by making synergistic use
of satellite observations and couple Ocean Atmosphere models. Effect of satellite data
assimilation on the skills of these forecasts are also required to be assessed.
Regional Sea level rise is analyzed from the 36 years of altimeter observations and the
F1.3
mechanisms responsible for difference in Service-level Agreement (SLA) rise rates in
different basins (Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal) are being studied. One of the major
challenges is the coastal sea level rise, for which the only source of observations are the
tide gauge stations because of the non-availability of altimeter data near to the coast.
Hence it is required to develop AI/ML based/dynamical techniques for interpolating/
downscaling sea level observations from altimeter to the coastal regions by making use
of numerical models and tide gauge stations. This is an important activity which will
further help in identification of vulnerable zones in the climate change scenario.
F2 Sub Area Oceanography studies (SAC)
High Resolution Oceanography (SAC)
In the view of high resolution (temporal and spatial) satellite observations from synthetic
F2.1 aperture radar, forthcoming Oceansat-3, Surface Water and Ocean Topography mission
(SWOT) mission, and optical imageries, high resolution oceanography is fast becoming
a reality. Synergistic use of these information will be key to understanding many
260

--- Page 275 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
unresolved processes at sub-mesoscale level, which can help in better ocean estimation.
Interaction of mesoscale scale dynamics (eddies) with sub-mesoscale is another
interesting area of research for energy cascading. Region specific high resolution models
with relocatable grids are being utilized for this purpose.
Ocean Reanalysis and Air Sea Interaction Studies (SAC)
One of the future goals is to develop a methodology to generate high quality three
dimensional ocean reanalysis product for last 30 years based on satellite observations
and numerical ocean model. This will be utilized not only for various oceanic process
studies but also to initialize seasonal prediction coupled models. Some of the reanalysis
fields that are currently being generated are of sea level, currents and chlorophyll.
F2.2
Research is also being carried out in generating merged products (like for e.g.
SST) by combining observations from various Indian and International missions
in order to provide continuous and gridded space-time observations for various
applications and process studies. Efforts are also being carried out to generate
high resolution salinity field from low resolution satellite observations using
Lagrangian based techniques. These fields will be useful for fine scale process studies.
G Area Geophysical Parameters and Applications (NESAC / SAC)
G1 Sub Area Geophysical Parameter Retrievals (NESAC / SAC)
Retrieval of Geophysical Parameters from Satellite Data (SAC)
ISRO has planned for launching a number of meteorological and oceanographic satellites
in near future. Presently it has INSAT-3D/3DR satellites in the orbit. In near future, it has
plan to launch many satellites in Geostationary and polar orbits for the same such as
Oceansat-3 and INSAT-3DS. This also includes many advanced sensors such as Microwave
Temperature Sounding Unit (TSU) and Humidity Sounding Unit (HSU) in future missions.
G1.1
There is also possibility of inclusion of an advanced microwave radiometer similar to
GPM Microwave Imager (GMI) in future missions. Future generation of INSAT satellite
may also have advanced imager, lightning imager and hyperspectral sounder on-board.
It is a challenging work to retrieve geophysical parameters from the sensor data of
these satellites. This involves Radiative Transfer modelling, Geophysical Model Function
development and the Inverse modeling techniques.
Retrieving vertical Profile of Temperature and Humidity using Radio Occultation
(RO) Data ( NESAC)
Vertical profiles of atmospheric temperature and humidity are important parameters in
atmospheric research, especially for weather forecast and climate change studies. Radio
G1.2
Occultation technique is an effective method to retrieve these profiles by receiving radio
signals from GPS navigation satellites. The method makes use of the fact that degree of
refraction of radio waves while passing through the atmosphere depends on gradient in
air density which in turn depends on temperature and humidity.
261

--- Page 276 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Other Research Areas related to Parameter Retrieval (SAC)
• Cloud/Rain type classification using INSAT/Kalpana observations.
• Study of cloud micro physics using 157 GHz of MADRAS and INSAT data
• Combination of INSAT-3D Imager and Sounder products to improve the quality of a
few critical atmospheric products, such as atmospheric stability, total WV contents,
G1.3
SST etc.
• Improved tracer selection, tracking and height assignment methods for Atmospheric
Motion Vectors (AMV) retrieval from VIS, MIR, WV, TIR1 channels.
• Retrieval of high-resolution winds is a challenging research area that may be
attempted with Geo imagine Satellite (GISAT) satellite.
G2 Sub Area Applications of Geophysical Parameters (SAC)
IRNSS/GNSS Applications (SAC)
IRNSS/GNSS offers unique opportunity to retrieve atmospheric geophysical parameters
such as TPW. ISRO may also develop satellite-borne receivers for IRNSS/GNSS reflectometry,
which has potential to provide various surface parameters including sea surface height,
intense sea surface wind speed and direction under severe weather conditions, soil
G2.1
moisture, ice and snow thickness, etc. Theoretical modelling and simulations of the
reflectometry observations is desired for the retrieval of the parameters. Until IRNSS
receivers are not available, International missions such as TDS-1 and Cyclone Global
Navigation Satellite System (CYGNSS) can be used to validate the simulation studies and
retrieval algorithms.
Merged Data Products (SAC)
Develop data fusion methods to derive most optimized products using a synergy of
G2.2 observations. The examples are (a) Optimized temperature/humidity profiles using IR
and microwave sounders (b)Optimized SST and rainfall products from IR and Microwave
imagers.
Advanced System Studies for New Sensor Definition (SAC)
For measurements of atmospheric and Oceanic parameters, new advance sensors have to
be defined for future satellites. System studies are being done with the help of Radiative
G2.3 transfer models to define the appropriate frequency, NEDT/SNR and bandwidth of new
sensors. Sensitivity analysis is also being carried out to understand the error budget
and appropriate resolutions (both spatial and temporal)required for the retrieval of
geophysical parameter.
Development of Procedures for Long Term Records of Essential Climate Variables
(SAC)
G2.4
Long term records of essential climate variables such as SST, wind, radiation budget,
water vapour, clouds, ozone, precipitation, sea surface salinity, sea level, sea state, etc.,
262

--- Page 277 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
which are defined by Global Climate Observing System (GCOS), are necessary for
characterising the trends in earth’s climatic variations. Measurements from different
satellite instruments suffer from different accuracies and biases due to evolution/
performance of the instruments and/or retrieval algorithms. Thus there is need to
intercalibrate the instruments/parameters to reduce the measurement biases among
them.
G3 Sub Area Geophysical Product Validations (SAC)
Validation algorithms (SAC)
Development of automatic procedures for validating various satellite derived
geo-physical parameters from Indian satellite missions (INSAT-3DR/3DS, Oceansat-3/3A,
GISAT-1A and TRISHNA etc.) by following the Protocol development on measurements,
G3.1 instrument operation, quality control, and calibration standards. Presently, the
most important exercise of validating sensor derived geo-physical products are done
using community vetted matchup methodology and qualifying various data sets
(in-situ, contemporary missions, climate data sets, data from various collaborative
agencies, etc.).
Validation of Hyperspectral Satellite Data (SAC)
Development of techniques for the assessment and refinement of hyperspectral remote
G3.2
sensing retrievals of chlorophyll-a and other phytoplankton pigments, Phytoplankton
Functional Types (PFTs) and phytoplankton specific absorption.
Integration of CHEMTAX and HPLC for Algorithm Validation (SAC)
Development of new algorithms for the use of CHEMTAX-HPLC derived phytoplankton
G3.3 community composition to validate and refine ocean colour algorithms for pigment-
based estimates of phytoplankton diversity, algal bloom, primary production etc. in
Indian Ocean region using satellite data and sea-truth measurements.
Enhancing validation in ultra-oligotrophic and coastal waters (SAC)
Improvement in validation efforts in very low-chlorophyll regions and optically complex
G3.4 coastal waters (using the sea-truth data collected during ship and boat cruises) by
incorporating new bio-optical models, adaptive atmospheric correction, and regional
algorithms tailored to case-2 waters.
H Area Marine Biology and Ecosystem (SAC)
Bio-Optical characterization of estuaries, brackish water lagoons and coastal
wetlands (SAC)
H1.1 Estuaries, lagoons and wetlands are important components of marine ecosystem,
heavily influenced by anthropogenic activities and susceptible to climate change. These
are categorized as optically complex waters (OCW). Challenging areas of research are
263

--- Page 278 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• Accurate estimation of optically active components such as chlorophyll concentration,
coloured dissolved organic matter (CDOM) absorption, total particulate matter and
total suspended sediments in optically complex waters.
• Development of atmospheric correction models for accurate estimation of remote
sensing reflectances in OCW.
• Hyperspectral characterization of optical constituents in VIS-NIR region.
• AI –ML based techniques for retrieval of optical constituents in OCW.
Marine Living Resource Management (SAC)
Climate change is profoundly effecting habitat, breeding and population dynamics
of marine living resources. Some of the challenging areas of research in this field are
• Habitat identification of endangered marine organism using geospatial information
• Site suitability for mariculture using remotely derived parameters and in-situ
H1.2
observations in GIS based models
• Ocean colour remote sensing in zooplankton, secondary production and tertiary
production studies
• Ocean colour remote sensing for microbial ecosystems
• Habitats of large pelagics using remotely sensed parameters and fishery data
Biodiversity and ecosystem Studies (SAC)
Climate change and global warming is rapidly effecting species biodiversity with native
population replaced by few fast growing species and loss in biodiversity. Major areas of
research are
• Ocean colour remote sensing in biodiversity studies of micro and macroalgae of
Indian marine waters
• Optical and biological studies of harmful and beneficial algal blooms using remote
H1.3
sensing
• Optical and biological characteristics of benthic ecosystems (Sea grass, Seaweeds,
benthic microalgae)
• Phytoplankton fluorescence and physiological studies
• Impact of ocean acidification on biodiversity
• Climate change studies on phytoplankton functional groups, size classes and
ecosystem structure.
I Area Development of Applications Techniques (SAC)
Microwave Techniques Development (SAC)
Microwave remote sensing instruments, like Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR),
I1.1
Scatterometer, Radiometer, Altimeter and Ground Penetration Radar (GPR), provide
valuable inputs for geophysical parameter retrievals, monitoring and investigative
264

--- Page 279 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
studies. Though, data from these sensors is regularly processed using various retrieval
algorithms, to cater to corresponding user applications, there is still a huge scope to
develop and employ advanced techniques to fully exploit the data for maximum
utilization. There is also requirement to simulate and demonstrate newer techniques,
which will enable definition of future microwave sensors. With the above requirements
in perspective, following are the potential areas of research:
• Development of techniques to simulate new SAR configuration data eg.,
Geosynchronous SAR (GeoSAR), bistatic SAR, GEO-LEO SAR and their processing
algorithms, to study geophysical parameters retrieval accuracies.
• Development of polarimetric SAR modelling for varied scenarios of target, terrain &
canopy configurations.
• Development of subsurface models for polarimetric GPR simulations.
• Development of object/feature detection techniques using GPR and Wall-Penetration
radars, and their performance evaluation.
• Development of processing methodologies for Rail-mounted Interferometric SAR
system for land subsidence monitoring; system development, demonstration of
processing methodology and its performance evaluation.
• Full-wave numerical Maxwell Model 3D simulations for microwave scattering from
forests including detailed 3D modeling of forest canopy structure.
• Signal processing techniques for forest mapping using 3D-SAR Tomography and
Higher dimensional SAR Tomography; applications of SAR tomography for forest
mapping in plains and hill slopes.
• Development of techniques for root-zone soil moisture estimation.
• Development of Polarimetric SAR models for Permafrost characterization in Himalayan
regions.
• PS- and DS-InSAR based algorithms for land-deformation estimation; Algorithms for
Landslides.
• damage assessment from SAR data; development of regular monitoring system with
alert generation capability.
I2 Sub Area Hyperspectral Techniques Development (SAC)
Hyperspectral Techniques Development
Hyperspectral remote sensing combines imaging and spectrometry. Most of Earth’s
surface materials contain characteristic absorption features which are very narrow
I2.1
in the spectral appearance, hence using high spectral resolution sensors called
hyperspectral sensors, we can detect hundreds of very narrow, contiguous spectral
bands throughout the visible, near-infrared, mid-infrared and thermal infrared portions
265

--- Page 280 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
of the electromagnetic spectrum. The very high spectral resolution facilitates fine
discrimination between different targets and its inherent chemical compositional
characteristics based on their spectral response in each of the narrow bands. Sophisticated
and complex data analysis methods are required due to high dimensionality and size
of the hyperspectral data, the spectral mixing and contamination in the measurement
process such as noise and atmospheric effects. Therefore, we need to explore and develop
advance hyperspectral data analysis techniques and tools, which may be organized in
different themes: data fusion, spectral unmixing, classification, target detection, physical
parameter retrieval etc.
• To explore Residual-3D-CNN, standard computer vision models such as LeNet-5,
AlexNet, VGG, Darknet, Squeezenet to Hx classification with different learnable
filters such as using 1D, 2D and 3D to see their effectiveness for remote sensing data
classification.
• Another relevant challenge is to integrate spatial-contextual information in spectral-
based classifiers for hyperspectral data to take advantage of the complementarities.
For Example: 3D deep convolutional neural networks (CNN).
• The challenge in vegetation (multi-crop, forest species) classification now is learning
temporal information from time series hyperspectral data. The addition of the time
domain to the learning model apart from contextual and spectral information adds
an additional dimension to the input data making the learning process much more
challenging.
• Current research on simultaneous contextual information extraction and temporal
information extraction can also be further explored by combining the concept of
Convolutional and Recurrent neural Network (RNN) such as Convolutional Long Short-
Term Memory (LSTM) or Convolutional Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) to the temporal
image data. This can be very effective for time series data classification.
• Physics inspired Deep-Learning based Inversion models for geophysical parameter
retrieval.
• To explore hypersharpening based methods for denoising which are based on
component substitution (CS) and multiresolution analysis (MRA).
• The unmixing based strategies such as Hyperspectral Image Superresolution via
Subspace-Based Regularization (HySure) and CNMF (Coupled Non Negative Matrix
Factorization) have great potential even when Spectral Response Function (SRF) has
limited overlap.
• A possible future for further performance improvement lies in developing hybrid
approaches that combine the advantages of different classes of methods such as
MRA and Unmixing. Current Unmixing approaches rely mostly on the assumption
of Linear Unmixing Model which can be further extended to Bi-linear or Non-Linear
based models.
266

--- Page 281 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
• VNIR-Hx and thermal-Hx data Fusion and Hyperspectral, LIDAR and SAR data fusion
for precision agriculture, soil characteristics, forest biomass etc. studies.
• To develop physics-inspired and sparse based non-linear un-mixing models.
• Real-Time robust spectral unmixing algorithm and tools which can be used for
airborne or drone based sensor data.
• Development of high performance / parallel computing model for spectral unmixing
(Sparse unmixing models depend on spectral library which takes too much time).
• Dictionary Learning based Estimation and data recovery for sub-pixel classification of
Hx data. For eg. soil property estimation from mixed pixels.
Applications of Remote Sensing in Agriculture, Forestry & Ecosystem
J Area
(IIRS / NESAC / NRSC / SAC)
J1 Sub Area Agriculture (NESAC / NRSC / SAC)
Crop production, yield and Price Forecasting (SAC)
• Monthly forecast of major crops & long-lead forecast
• Automated crop yield estimation thorough process-based model
J1.1 • Prediction of market arrival & price through statistical and AI/ML approaches
• Acreage of rabi pulse types, Kharif onion through Opti-SAR observations
• Fodder type-wise area, yield & production
• Site suitability of medicinal plants
Agro advisories and crop loss assessment (SAC)
• New Drought product from Satellite and its use in crop loss
• Prototype demonstration of Digital agro-climatic atlas
J1.2
• Horticulture-specific weather-based insurance product using satellite data
• Local-scale / high-resolution weather forecast using AI/ML
• Modelling macro/micro climate & animal disease prediction
Precision Agriculture (SAC)
• Resource-use efficiency (Crop Water Productivity, Nutrient Use Efficiency), Soil carbon
dynamics.
• Fodder nutrient, Active medical ingradient & pesticide residue investigation (UAV,
J1.3
satellite hyperspectral, thermal, Imaging microscopy – Experiments, analysis, data
fusion).
• Investigations on Solar-Induced Fluorescence (SIF) & hyperspectral related to
photosynthesis & early disease detection.
3D soil mapping (NRSC)
J1.4 3D soil mapping is an advanced technique that involves creating detailed, three
dimensional representations of soil properties across a landscape. This method utilizes a
267

--- Page 282 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
combination of field data collection, geophysical surveys, remote sensing, and modeling
to capture variations in soil characteristics such as texture, moisture content, organic
matter, pH levels, and nutrient distribution. The result is a spatially accurate map that
provides a more in-depth understanding of soil variability, which can be essential for
precision agriculture, land management, and environmental monitoring. The advantage
of 3D soil mapping lies in its ability to offer a more comprehensive view of the soil profile,
going beyond traditional 2D maps. The need of the hour is to map the soil properties
three dimensionally using geo- statistical approaches like radial basis function (RBF),
krigging or data mining tools such as neural networks, Cubist, random forests, etc. or a
combination of both. Besides, the 3-D visualization of soil properties using open source
tools like openGL with geo-spatial querying will provide a new dimension to the way
the soils are looked at. Such information will form a base line to develop 3D process
based models involving pedo-transformations.
Assessment of Carbon Sequestration Potential of Plantation crops using Geospatial
Technology (NRSC)
Carbon sequestration is one of the efficient methods to mitigate carbon emissions
and reduce global warming. The plantation crops encompassing a diverse array of tree
species, offer a unique chance to sequester a considerable amount of atmospheric carbon
dioxide. These woody trees store 25–100 times more carbon than agricultural crops.
Assessing the carbon sequestration (CS) potential of plantation crops is vital for GHG
mitigation, strategic planning, and carbon trading. Quantifying CS in diverse agroforestry
J1.5
ecosystems remains a challenge, necessitating cost-effective methodologies. While
eddy-covariance flux towers provide accurate flux measurements, they are expensive
and can cover small area. Geospatial technologies, such as UAV-mounted sensors
and LiDAR, offer biomass mapping for efficient CS estimation. A comprehensive
methodology should integrate techniques to assess Above-Ground Biomass (AGB),
Below-Ground Biomass (BGB), Soil Carbon, and Necromass. This study is proposed
for assessment of carbon sequestration potential of plantation crops using field and
UAV based approach and its up scaling to regional and national using satellite data.
Impact of Aerosol on Agricultural Productivity ( NESAC)
Atmospheric aerosols alter energy balance of the earth atmosphere system through
scattering and absorption of radiation and also by modifying cloud properties.
J1.6 Through scattering and absorption, atmospheric aerosols reduce surface reaching
solar radiation, which in turn affect agricultural production. In addition, aerosols
affect large scale circulation systems such as Indian summer monsoon and associated
rainfall. Changes in rainfall will have significant effect on agricultural production.
Soil Nutrient Management for Precision Agriculture using Hyper Spectral Data
J1.7 (NESAC)
To study develop model/algorithm using hyperspectral imaging for precision farming.
268

--- Page 283 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
Soil Carbon Sequestration (NESAC)
J1.8 Developing methodology/model to estimate soil carbon sequestration status using
different resolution satellite data.
Understanding Shifting Cultivation as a Driver of LULC Change (NESAC)
J1.9 Identifying space based indicators to link shifting cultivation as a driver for LULC changes
and its impact.
J2 Sub Area Forestry and Ecosystem (IIRS / NESAC / NRSC / SAC)
Integrating Acoustics and Geospatial Technology for Monitoring Biological
Communities in Soundscapes (IIRS)
Soundscape ecology is an emerging field that explores how biological, geophysical,
and anthropogenic sounds shape ecosystems. Wildlife monitoring within soundscapes
provides crucial insights into species distribution, habitat use, and responses to
environmental changes. Traditional wildlife monitoring methods, however, are often
resource-intensive, prone to observer bias, and limited in their ability to detect elusive
or nocturnal species. Acoustic monitoring, which involves recording and analysing
animal vocalizations, offers a non-invasive and cost-effective alternative. It enables
researchers to study biodiversity patterns, track species activity, and assess the impacts
of anthropogenic disturbances on wildlife communication within soundscapes.
Geospatial technology, including Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and remote
sensing, plays a critical role in mapping habitat dynamics, tracking species movements,
and modelling biodiversity trends. When integrated with bioacoustics, geospatial tools
J2.1 can spatially analyse soundscape data to correlate wildlife activity with habitat conditions
and human-induced pressures such as deforestation, urbanization, and industrial noise.
This combination allows for a deeper understanding of how species interact within
their acoustic environments and how soundscapes are altered by ecological changes.
The proposed project aims to integrating acoustic recordings with geospatial tools for
assessing impacts on wildlife activities across diverse landscapes with varying degrees
of human impact. AI/ML-based automated species recognition will be employed to
classify sounds, detect ecological disturbances, and track population trends within
soundscapes. By merging bioacoustics data with geospatial analytics, study will be
able to visualize patterns of species presence, identify key habitat corridors, and assess
shifts in biodiversity due to environmental stressors. This interdisciplinary approach
represents an innovative, non-invasive solution for long-term ecological monitoring. By
harnessing the power of acoustics and geospatial technology, the project will contribute
to a more comprehensive understanding of soundscapes, inform conservation
strategies, and support biodiversity protection efforts in rapidly changing environments.
269

--- Page 284 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Monitoring tree plantations and Retrieval of Biophysical Parameters using
temporal data (NRSC)
Growth monitoring of various tree formations (plantations, tree clusters, scattered
farmland trees etc.) has several crucial applications for environment, agriculture and
climate change research. This project is envisaged for retrieval of several key biophysical
tree parameters by integrating temporal satellite, UAV and LiDAR data along with
J2.2 field data. These parameters include tree height, Diameter at Breast Height (DBH),
canopy area and volume, Leaf Area Index (LAI), Above Ground Biomass (AGB) etc.,
which are essential metrics for ecosystem monitoring. Time-series analysis of multi-
sensor, high resolution datasets of tree resources can reveal patterns of short-term and
long-term tree growth trends, along with disturbance incidences. This procedure can
be semi-automated /automated using advanced analytical techniques for upscaling to
larger regions towards carbon stock assessment and REDD+ initiatives of the country.
Impact of Rural & Watershed Development activities towards Climate Resilience
(NRSC)
Watershed development programs play a crucial role in poverty alleviation, livelihood
enhancement and sustainable management of land, water, and natural resources,
particularly in rainfed regions. As climate change, environmental degradation, and water
scarcity intensify, there is an urgent need for a science-driven approach to watershed
and rural development. By integrating emerging technologies, geospatial tools, and
data-driven policy frameworks, these programs can be optimized to enhance climate
resilience and ecosystem sustainability.
This study aims to comprehensively evaluate the impact of various watershed and rural
J2.3
development initiatives, to analyze their influence on key environmental parameters,
including:
• Increase in green cover through afforestation and agroforestry interventions.
• Expansion of water spread areas due to improved rainwater harvesting and storage.
• Enhanced irrigation availability supporting multi-cropping and agricultural
diversification.
• Evapotranspiration studies to assess water use efficiency and vegetation health.
• Runoff estimation for improved water conservation planning.
• Changes in land surface temperature (LST) as an indicator of microclimatic
modifications.
Forest carbon mapping (SAC)
Accurate estimation of vegetation biomass is crucial for accounting carbon sequestration
J2.4
and emissions from forest ecosystem. Advancement in remote sensing technology has
enabled more precise quantification of forest above-ground biomass with lower levels
270

--- Page 285 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
of uncertainties in estimates. Following are the research areas that are proposed under
this theme:
• Development of algorithm and tool for forest above-ground biomass using multi-
sensor remote sensing data/ PolInSAR / SAR tomography
J2.4
• Multi-sensor based remote sensing for biomass estimation of scrublands and
grassland.
• Development of framework for quantification of carbon sequestration potential of
forests/ ecosystems
Modelling and retrieval of ‘blue carbon’ and ‘teal carbon’ to assess the role of
wetlands in climate change adaptations and resilience (SAC)
Blue carbon is the carbon dioxide that is stored in coastal and ocean ecosystems, such
as mangroves, seagrasses and salt marshes. Whereas, Teal carbon is the carbon stored
in non-tidal freshwater wetlands, including vegetation, microbial biomass and organic
matter. These carbons are major contributors to global carbon sequestration playing key
roles in regulating greenhouse gases. Identifying and measuring the amount of these
J2.5
carbons is a part of the effort to understand how these wetlands can help with climate
change adaptations and resilience. Following are the research areas that are proposed
under this theme:
• Modelling and retrieval of ‘blue carbon’ and/or ‘teal carbon’ from coastal and inland
ecosystems to assess their role in climate change adaptations and resilience
• Quantification of Essential Ecosystem Services for assessments and development of
framework for monitoring climate change impacts on ecosystem services.
LiDAR remote sensing (SAC)
Applications of LiDAR remote sensing in forestry and ecosystems studies is advancing
fast in the recent times due to the proliferation of terrestrial, airborne and space-
borne LiDAR scanning instruments. Also, LiDAR has been proven to complement other
sensors viz. optical, radar and hyperspectral for studies related to vegetation and land.
Development of various processing and analysis tools has aided to this and has made
LiDAR a powerful tool for studying and monitoring vegetation and land ecosystems.
J2.6 Following are the research areas that can be addressed using LiDAR remote sensing:
• Retrieval of vegetation allometric parameters and above-ground biomass using
LiDAR data.
• Applications of LiDAR remote sensing for habitat mapping, forest health monitoring
and vegetation monitoring for understanding the climate change adaptations and
resilience
• Development of automated tools using AI/ML for LiDAR based forest vegetation
mapping
271

--- Page 286 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Desertification & Land Degradation (SAC)
Desertification and land degradation constitutes one of the most alarming geo-
environmental global problem affecting two third countries of the world on which one
billion people live (one sixth of world’s population). Land degradation is reduction or
loss of productive land due to natural processes, climate change and human activities.
Desertification is land degradation in arid, semi-arid and dry sub-humid areas (also
J2.7 known as Drylands). The processes of desertification and land degradation are observed
to have accelerated during recent years globally. There is a need to stop and reverse
the process of desertification and land degradation. It is required to develop advanced
digital classification techniques using object based approaches, machine learning/
artificial neural network for automated land degradation mapping using multi-temporal
and multi-sensor satellite data, vulnerability and risk assessment and developing action
plans to combat land degradation.
Forest Species Discrimination & Forest Biophysical Parameters Retrieval (NESAC)
Penetration and all-weather capability of SAR along with sensitivity of SAR data towards
physical, geometrical and di-electrical properties of forest trees and plantations of
J2.8 various shapes, sizes and structures along with all-weather & penetration capabilities
of SAR can successfully be used to retrieve various biophysical parameters of forest
like forest above ground biomass, tree height etc. Availability of multi-parametric SAR
along with advance SAR techniques like SAR Interferometry, Hybrid polarimetry, fully.
Assessment, Monitoring and Management of Wetland Ecosystem using Radar
Remote Sensing (NESAC)
Wetlands play an important role in ground water recharge and also provide unique
habitats for wide range of flora & fauna. Therefore, wetlands have significant biodiversity
resources. However, the recognition of biodiversity conservation values of the wetlands
has been neglected for a long time. As a result of this, there is an alarming loss of wetlands.
The alarming loss of wetlands all over the globe had initiated an inter-governmental
treaty which provides the framework for National action and International cooperation
for the conservation and wise use of wetlands and their resources. This treaty was signed
J2.9 in Ramsar, Iran, in 1971 and is known as ‘Ramsar Convention’.
In order to monitor wetlands, on local, regional and national levels, there is an urgent
need to develop user friendly and cost effective tools. Remote sensing can play an
important role for assessment, monitoring and management of wetland ecosystem.
Lot of work has already been done in the field of wetland studies using data from
conventional remote sensing sensors operating in optical and infrared region of the
electromagnetic spectrum. However, for studies of wetland, optical remote sensing
data exhibit a few limitations. In contrast to radar remote sensing, the major limitation
with optical data is uncertainty of getting cloud free data during monsoon (rainy)
season. The analysis during monsoon season is of prime importance as it is the main
272

--- Page 287 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
source of water that controls the ecosystem of most of the inland wetlands. Moreover,
sensitivity of optical data for physical, geometrical, dielectrical and textural variation of
vegetation (both terrestrial and aquatic) is also limited as compared with Radar data
operating in the microwave region of the electromagnetic spectrum, which is highly
sensitive for these properties of various components of a wetland ecosystem. Capability
of microwave signals transmitted from the Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) sensor to
penetrate vegetation cover and to sense the moisture content of the earth materials,
allows microwaves to monitor the wetland ecosystem more accurately as compared to
optical remote sensing tools.
Forest Meteorology and Ecosystem Modeling (NESAC)
Forest plays an important role in governing the energy and mass exchange over a
region. Quantification of energy fluxes helps in modeling regional climate. SAC is
involved in development of 24 Micrometeorological station network in India which are
taking continuous measurements in agriculture and natural vegetation system. There
is need to develop land surface process models to quantify the fluxes with reference to
surface and atmospheric forcing. Most of the biogeochemical modeling depends on
phenological understanding of different vegetation types. There is need to carry out
ground experimentation as well as satellite modeling to estimate the phenological
matrices of different vegetation types. Such efforts would lead to develop the forest
growth simulation models.
J2.10
Modeling NPP using satellite measurements such as INSAT-CCD is an important
future thrust area. There is need to develop process based model to quantify the net
primary productivity and ecosystem level productivity. Network of annual biomass
measurements are needed to validate the NPP products.
It is known that biomass modeling is limited with optical measurements due to
saturation of optical light in denser canopy. Radar based approaches provide improved
assessment. It is proposed to develop LIDAR based modeling to account the height of
the forest in the estimation of forest biomass.
Detection of forest fire and development of fire alarm system based on bioclimatic
indices is an important research area which will be carried out using INSAT-3D satellite
data.
K Area Air quality, Atmospheric Trace gases and Aerosols (NESAC / SAC)
K1 Sub Area Atmospheric Trace Gases (NESAC / SAC)
Advanced Trace Gas Retrieval (SAC)
Utilizing Differential Optical Absorption Spectroscopy (DOAS), combined with ground-
K1.1 based FTIR and LIDAR, will enhance methane and carbon dioxide retrievals from space.
The integration of polarimeter data enables improved characterization of aerosols,
aiding in the correction of atmospheric interferences that impact gas retrieval accuracy.
273

--- Page 288 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Regional Monitoring of Trace and Green House Gases (NESAC)
Trace and green house gases in earth atmosphere are important as they affect both
air quality and radiation balance of the earth atmosphere system. Anthropogenic
K1.2 activities influence abundance of many of these gases in the atmosphere. In view of
this, it is necessary to have continuous monitoring of these gases and changes in their
concentrations over different regions to understand anthropogenic impacts on global
climate change.
K2 Sub Area Aerosols (NESAC / SAC)
LIDAR-Based Vertical Profiling of Aerosols (SAC)
Developing models for vertical particulate extinction and backscatter profiles using
K2.1 satellite and ground-based LIDAR will provide critical insights into pollution transport
and atmospheric layering. This will enable high-precision monitoring of aerosols from
urban pollution, industrial emissions, and biomass burning.
Transport of Chemical Constituents of Atmosphere using WRF chemical Transfer
modelling (NESAC)
Atmospheric dynamics lead to dispersion and transport of chemical constituents in
K2.2 atmosphere from their source regions to distant locations. In order to understand effects
of chemical constituents in earth atmosphere, their transport from source regions to
other locations has to be examined. Transport of chemical constituents in atmosphere
can be investigated in detail using models such as WRF.
Aerosol Characterization and its Impact on Solar Radiation (NESAC)
Atmospheric aerosols, one of the major climate forcing agents, affect earth atmosphere
radiation balance through aerosol radiation interactions and aerosol cloud interactions.
Despite the efforts being carried out for past few decades, atmospheric aerosol remains
K2.3
one of the major sources of uncertainty in climate forcing estimates. Better understanding
of aerosol impacts on weather and climate demands adequate incorporation of
aerosol parameters in climate models, which needs accurate measurements of aerosol
characteristics.
Aerosol Optical Thickness and Atmospheric Correction over Land ( NESAC)
Calibration and radiometric normalization is the key issue in future remote sensing
activities related with biophysical parameter retrieval and climate change. Atmospheric
correction of the satellite data is a challenge. Most important input for atmospheric
K2.4 correction involved estimation of Aerosol optical thickness (AOT) either from network of
ground observations or satellite data. Retrieval of AOT sensors like Resourcesat series is a
challenge. There is need to develop simplified correction approach including AOR inputs
using dark dense vegetation approach. There is further need to develop instrumentation
with capability of polarized measurements and LIDAR sensing.
274

--- Page 289 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
Algorithm development for Atmospheric Aerosols (NESAC)
K2.5 Algorithms for atmospheric aerosols using satellite over plain & hilly land and oceans,
Aerosol transportation and climate studies.
Active Fire Detection (SAC)
A multi-sensor approach using thermal infrared data will improve active fire detection,
fire intensity assessment, and plume evolution tracking. Using geostationary satellite
K2.6 data, aapplications towards crop residue burning monitoring will help quantify aerosol
and gas emissions, assessing their impact on ambient air quality and regional pollution
events. AI-based forecasting models will further aid in early warning systems and
mitigation strategies.
AI/ML-Driven Downscaling and Data Fusion (SAC)
Incorporating AI/ML algorithms for data fusion and downscaling will enhance the
K2.7 spatial and temporal resolution of trace gas and aerosol datasets. Machine learning will
optimize retrieval techniques, while data assimilation models will improve air quality
forecasting and climate predictions.
Ultrafine Radiative Transfer Simulation (SAC)
High-resolution radiative transfer simulations will improve understanding of gas-aerosol
K2.8 interactions, aiding in the refinement of retrieval techniques. These simulations will
also help quantify radiative forcing effects, crucial for climate modeling and mitigation
strategies.
Observing System Simulation Experiments (SAC)
Conducting OSSEs will help evaluate the performance of future satellite missions by
K2.9 simulating atmospheric observations under various scenarios. These experiments will
guide sensor design, retrieval algorithm development, and mission planning, ensuring
optimal coverage and accuracy for atmospheric monitoring.
K3 Sub Area Aerosol Remote Sensing (NESAC / SAC)
Simulation studies and specifications development of a hyperspectral sensor for retrieval
K3.1 of aerosol layer heights and aerosol characterization, and development of retrieval
algorithms.
Atmospheric corrections of VNIR sensors is a challenge in absence of SWIR channels. In
K3.2 this direction, there is need to develop methods for AOD and surface reflectance retrieval
for VNIR sensors such as AWiFS, Linear Imaging Self Scanning (LISS-III), Cartosat-2 etc.
Mapping and analysing the patterns of ground level particulate matter (an important
K3.3
factor to determine the ground level Air-Quality) using satellite data and modelling.
Development of models to estimate particulate matter using satellite data specifically
K3.4 for Indian atmosphere. The quantification of factors leading to harmfully high levels of
particulate matter.
275

--- Page 290 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Development of on-board Parallel/FPGA algorithm for real-time application of
K3.5
hyperspectral data. (SAC)
Simulation of synthetic hyperspectral data using Radiative Transfer and Ray tracing
K3.6
models. (SAC)
Surface Energy Budgeting using Remote Sensing (NESAC)
Surface energy budgeting assumes importance as the surface energy balance is
one of the major factors affecting hydrostatic stability and mixing of atmospheric
constituents such as pollutants in lower atmosphere. Remote sensing can be used for
surface energy budgeting over large spatial extends to understand changes in surface
K3.7 energy balance and related effects in earth atmospheric boundary layer characteristics
and associated processes Atmospheric Transport (role in determining the distributions
of chemical species in the atmosphere, understanding process, circulation, vertical
transport, atmospheric stability, turbulence etc) Trace gases measurement
and monitoring (understanding trace gases, evolution, transportation, processes,
measurements analysis and modelling.
L Area Aerial Remote Sensing using UAV (NESAC)
Segmentation of Aerial / Satellite Data (NESAC)
Segmentation becomes more important with increasing spatial resolution of imagery.
Texture in high-resolution aerial and high resolution satellite images requires substantial
L1.1 amendment in the conventional segmentation algorithms. The potential applications of
this segmentation process are (1) Automatic 3D model generation (2) automatic DEM
generation from DSM (3) Automation in Quality Checking of vector maps and many
more.
Design & Assembly of UAV Components-Payloads, Communication Components
L1.2 etc., UAV Data Acquisition, Processing, 3D Feature Capturing, Construction of 3D
Surface Model/DEM, Automatic Object or Pattern Recognition (NESAC)
Development of Long Range Communication System for UAVs (NESAC)
Most of the commercial UAVs available today come with a communication range of
5-10 kms in clear line of sight. However for some applications like medicine delivery
L1.3 in remote/ disaster areas, river mapping/monitoring applications require long
communication range 40-50 kms for real time transfer of telemetry and data. A low cost,
low weight and range communication system will improve the capabilities of existing
UAV systems.
Development of Data Processing Software for High Volume UAV Data Processing
(NESAC)
L1.4 Processing of UAV data is a unique challenge due to its large volume. Few of the
commercial softwares used for generation of complete data products such as DEM/DTM,
3D point cloud, contour maps etc are very costly and require high end systems. There is
276

--- Page 291 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
a need for developing in house data processing software using open source tools with
end to end data processing capabilities which do not require very end computers.
Real time UAV Data Processing for Disaster Monitoring Applications (NESAC)
Data acquired from UAV surveys is downloaded after the survey and processed in the lab.
Due to the high volume of data, the processing takes lot of time and real time quantitative
L1.5 analysis from the data cannot be made. A real time data processing technique where
data is downloaded to ground station in real time as the flight progresses and put into
software where maps/models are generated simultaneously and automatically will be
helpful for quick disaster response and assessment.
Improvements in Battery Capacity used in UAVs (NESAC)
Lithium Polymer batteries are being used as source of electric power in the present UAV
L1.6 systems which gives a maximum flight endurance up to 1 hr with different combinations.
It is required to develop low weight high capacity batteries to further improve upon the
flight endurance of UAVs using different materials and techniques.
Automatic Detection of tree Height, Leaf Area Index, Canopy etc. for Biomass
Estimation (NESAC)
L1.7
Developing models for UAV data processing for automatic detection of tree height,
canopy etc.
L1.8 Tree Species Detection from LiDAR Waveform Data (NESAC)
M Area Atmospheric Dynamics and Coupling (NARL)
M1 Sub Area Observations, Modelling and Simulations (NARL)
Modelling of atmospheric tides (NARL)
Atmospheric tides are generated due to solar insolation absorption by water vapour,
ozone, nitrogen and oxygen molecules. They play a major role in determining the thermal
M1.1 structure, circulation and ionospheric variabilities. The atmospheric tidal solutions can be
obtained by solving Laplace tidal equations, which are basic fluid dynamical equations
and necessary heating. The equations can be solved to get the height and latitudinal
profiles of different modes of tides.
Generation and propagation of atmospheric wave modes (NARL)
The upper atmosphere is governed by dynamics in addition to radiation and chemistry.
The atmospheric waves play a major role in determining the dynamics of the upper
atmosphere. The waves range from acoustic gravity waves to planetary scale waves.
M1.2 They have different generation mechanisms, namely, latent heat release in the deep
convection, land sea thermal contract, orography, instability mechanisms etc. It is
necessary to understand the generation mechanisms of different atmospheric waves
and their vertical propagation, which depend on the background winds and thermal
structure.
277

--- Page 292 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Numerical simulations of stratospheric sudden warming and their global influence
(NARL)
Sudden stratospheric warming is the sudden rise in temperature in the cold polar
M1.3 stratosphere during some winters. It occurs due to anomalous growth of planetary
waves and their interaction with background wind. Though it occurs at high latitude
stratosphere, it Influences globally. The occurrence of SSW and their effect needs to be
understood through numerical simulations.
Gravity wave-tidal -mean flow interactions (NARL)
Tidal variability at mesospheric heights influences E-region electrodynamics, as the
latter is mostly governed by tidal wind dynamo mechanism. The tidal variability can be
M1.4 influenced by gravity wave tidal interaction. Momentum deposition by gravity waves
can accelerate/decelerate the mean wind and affect the amplitude and structure of tides.
The eddy diffusion of gravity waves can affect the tidal variabilities. It is important to
understand how gravity wave stress affects tidal amplitudes and background circulation.
Simulations of QBO, SAO and Intra-Seasonal Oscillation (NARL)
Equatorial middle atmosphere is characterized by quasi-biennial oscillation (QBO) in the
lower stratosphere, semi-annual oscillation in the upper stratosphere and mesosphere.
M1.5 Besides, middle atmospheric parameters exhibit intraseasonal variability. The equatorial
waves play major role in driving these oscillations. It is aimed to develop a model, which
can simulate these long-period oscillations with realistic wave forcing and background
wind parameters.
Influence of lateral wave forcing on tropical weather and climate (NARL)
Tropical weather and clime is Influenced by potential vorticity intrusions. These intrusions
trigger deep convection and control rainfall. How the extra tropical atmosphere
M1.6
Influences the tropical weather and climate needs to be understood quantitatively.
In addition, annular modes can Influence the tropical weather. What is the impact of
these extratropical forcing on Indian monsoon needs to be investigated.
Saturn’s upper atmosphere (NARL)
M1.7 Plasma in the Saturn’s upper atmosphere, magnetosphere, radiation belts, interaction
with its rings and moons, the rotation period of Saturn.
N Area Weather and Climate (NARL)
Modelling and Computer Simulations for Weather Prediction
N1 Sub Area
(NARL)
Estimating wind and solar energy resources over Indian region and the development
of forecasting system for predicting wind potentials using mesoscale Weather
N1.1 Research and Forecasting model (NARL)
Increasing concerns over the global warming and environmental pollution prompts the
policy makers to look for the alternate energy resources in place of the conventional
278

--- Page 293 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
energy sources. Solar and wind energy are prominent renewable energy resources to us
the last few decades, though considerable effort has been made to use renewable energy
resources effectively in the western countries, Asian region still lags in the effective
utilization of these alternate resources. One of the primary steps in renewable energy
field is the resource assessments for identifying the optimal locations for extracting
the winds and solar energies which needs high resolution wind and solar data sets.
Development of fully coupled ocean-atmospheric model for improving the
forecasts of Indian Summer Monsoon at medium-range and seasonal time scales
(NARL)
The relative failures of numerical weather prediction models to capture the observed
variability of Monsoon on medium range to seasonal time scale and failure to estimate
N1.2 the intensity of extreme events prompts to search for in-abilities of the atmospherics
models. One of such problems in NWP models is the lack of precise ocean feedback
to atmosphere which is highly essential for understanding and predicting monsoon
behavior from long range to medium-range temporal scales. Development of fully
coupled ocean-atmospheric model can certainly improve the forecast skill of NWP model
for prediction Indian Summer Monsoon at medium-range and seasonal time scales.
Analysis of extreme weather events over Indian region using numerical modelling
tools (NARL)
Understanding tele-connections and the analysis dynamical and physical
mechanisms behind the frequent occurrence of extreme rainfall events over Indian
N1.3
region is essential for improving the physical parameterizations in NWP models.
The recent studies over Monsoon variability reveals the number of extreme
weather events during monsoon seasonare increasing, potential mechanisms
are extremely required to models these process and predicting accurately.
Development optimal assimilation methods for assimilation X-band DWR in NWP
models (NARL)
Commencement of dense network of X-band Doppler weather radar provides
us opportunity to have various profiles of hydrometeors which can effectively
assimilated in numerical weather prediction models using different assimilation
N1.4
strategies for improving operational weather prediction systems. Development
of optimal assimilation methods are highly essential for effective assimilation
of hydro-meteors and radial velocities from the dual polarized Doppler weather
radar (ISRO X-band DWR) data for improving the forecasts of mesoscale convective
systems such as thunder storms, cyclones and extreme heavy rainfall events.
279

--- Page 294 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
N2 Sub Area Convection/Precipitation/Boundary Layer (NARL)
Understanding the decadal changes in solar radiation flux at surface and relation
with sunspot activity/solar cycle (NARL)
Pyrheliometer can be used to measure direct beam radiation from the Sun and it can
N2.1 be used to measure the total hemispherical radiation (beam + diffuse radiation). The
duration of sunshine intensity can be measured using a photoelectric sunshine recorder.
Changes in solar radiation flxes during active Sun period vs. quiet period over a longer
period of time is proposed to be studied for one or more latitudes.
Understanding the decadal longwave emission by atmosphere and by earth (NARL)
Earth emits longwave radiation which is responsible for keeping the atmosphere warm.
N2.2 Longwave radiation from earth’s surface can be measured using a pyrgeometer.Long
term analysis needs to be done to understand the decadal changes in long wavee
missions by the earth.
Studies on logarithmic wind profile of boundary layer (NARL)
Wind speed and direction data obtained from anemometers field at logarithmic spacing
N2.3 in a 50 m tower is to be analysed to understand the log-profile of wind in the boundary
layer. The study needs to extended over a longer period to understand the robustness
and changes for the season and for different weather conditions.
Understanding cloud characteristics and properties using lidars (VIS & IR) (NARL)
Visible and IR lidar data range-time-intensities need to be analysed to detect clouds passing
N2.4
over the location. Cloud characteristics like base, top height, thickness, optical thickness,
frequency of occurrence, non-sphericity of particle can be studied for a longer period.
Cloud radiative forcing studies over Gadanki (NARL)
The radiation fluxes reaching the earth surface measured using shortwave, long wave
N2.5
and broadband radiometers/ pyranometer, pyrheliometer could be utilised. Differences
in fluxes in the presence and absence of clouds gives the cloud radiative forcing.
N3 Sub Area Radiation, Aerosols and Trace gases (NARL)
Development of low cost nephelometer (NARL)
Nephelometer is an important instrument for aerosol optical properties which are
needed to be known for the climatic effects. Current nephelometer technology uses
N3.1 halogen lamp and heavier parts, which are not suitable for balloon borne observations.
Recent advancement in LED technology makes it possible to develop light weight low
cost nephelomter with similar performance. This will be employed for the developing
spaceborne nephelometer for the regular and campaign mode observations.
Development of OH analyzer (NARL)
N3.2 Hydroxyl radical (OH-) is an important oxidiser in troposphere and responsible for the
removal of green house gases. However due to high reactivity, very short life time, their
280

--- Page 295 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
concentrations are diffiult to measure. Since there is no commercially available OH
analyzer, it will be developed in house.
O Area Signal and Data Processing (NARL)
O1 Sub Area Parameter Retrieval Algorithm Development (NARL)
Lidar signal inversion methods (NARL)
There are different types of light scattering, namely, Rayleig, Mie, Resonance, and
Raman. These scattered signals can be used to retrieve atmospheric parameters,
O1.1
namely temperature, scattered ratio, density of metal species, lidar depolarization ratio.
Improvements in the retrieval methods are needed to retrieve these parameters more
accurately.
Retrieval of temperature and minor constituents in the atmosphere from the
satellite based radiance measurements (NARL)
The radiance measured from the satellite borne radiometer at the limb viewing
O1.2 for different wavelength channels can be used to retrieve temperature and minor
constituents. Usually the 15 um CO emission is used as the mixing ratio of CO is nearly
2 2
constant. By inverting raditative transfer equation, the temperature and mixing ratios of
chemical constituents can be derived.
Radar signal processing (NARL)
From the time series of in phase and quadrature phase off the radar signals, noise
removal and cogerent integration for desired number of pulses, spectrum is obtained
O1.3
to compute the mean Doppler, Doppler width. The Doppler frequency obtained from
three non coplanar directions is used to obtain wind information and the Doppler width
is used to study turbulence.
Improvements in satellite rain retrievals using advanced statistical or physics
based algorithms (NARL)
There was large variation among algorithms in the magnitude of the satellite-estimated
O1.4 rainfall, but the patterns of rainfall tend to be similar among algorithm types. Compared
to the radar observations, most of the satellite algorithms over erestimated the amount
of rain falling in the region, typically by about 30%. Patterns of monthly observed rainfall
were well represented by the satellite algorithms.
P Area Radar and Lidar Instrumentation for Atmospheric Probing (NARL)
P1 Sub Area Developoment of Radar and Lidar Accessories/Techniques (NARL)
Time dependent attenuator for Lidar signal (NARL)
The time-dependent variable attenator is used to reduce the dynamic range of lidar
P1.1 signals. The attenuator consists of a Pocket cell between two crossed electronically to
attenuate the large signals from close ranges but to transmit for-range signal returns
to their full extent. The signal dynamic range can be reduced even by a factor of 100.
281

--- Page 296 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Development of a fiber optic based IF filter for lidar to solve the problem of
temperature dependence of filters (NARL)
Optical fibers are made from silica (glass) and hence carry some ingerent advantages
P1.2 such as usability in harsh, high temperature and rugged environments and immunity
to electromagnetic interference. Besides, silica is also a chemically passive material
and hence it is not affected by corrosive factors that might be present in the
environment. Multiplexing capabilities that allow distributed sensing applications.
Digital up-converters (NARL)
Analog Devices digital up/downs converters serve as the frequency translator and
digital filter between data converters and digital signal processing blocks. These
P1.3
products enables highly programmable and configyrable receive and transimt signal
chains, allowing multichannel, multicarrier radio platforms. They also meet the digital
data conversion requirements for many types of radar and communication applications.
Digital synthesizer for radar exicter (NARL)
A radar exciter provide coherent frequency and timing relationships performed by
P1.4 direct digital synthesis, cpable of creating high-resolution wideband waveforms for
radar systems. The exciter provides fully cogerent receiver local oscillator signals at radar
frequency band as well as requisite, auxiliary high frequency clock signals.
Digital beam forming techniques (NARL)
Beam forming is a signal processing technique used in antenna arrays for directional
signal transmission or reception by combining elements in an antenna arrays for
directional signal transmission or reception by combining elements in an antenna array
in such a way that signals at particular angles experience constructive interference
while others experience destructive interference and it be used at both the transmiting
and receiving ends in order to achieve spatial selectivity. Digital beamfoming has the
P1.5
advantage over its analog counterpart that the digital data streams can be manipulated
and combined in many possible ways in parallel. To get many different output signals
in parallel. The signals form every direction can be measured sitmultaneously, and
the signals can be integrated for a longer time when studying far-off scatters and
simultaneously integrated for a shorter time to study fast-moving scatterers. Imaging
radars need to be tested with different beam forming techniques (Founder, capon to
state a few) to select the technique, which will give high spatial and temporal resolution.
Clutter removal techniques (NARL)
Various non-atmospheric signals contaminate radar windd profiler data, which produce
bias in estimation of moments and wind velocity. Especially, in Ultra High Frequency
P1.6 (UHF) wind profilers, ground clutter severely degrades wind velocity estimation.
Moreover, noise dominates the clear air signal at higher heights. It is necessary to
eliminate the clutter signal to detect the weak atmospheric signals buried inside the
noise and to improve the SNR. Wavelet analysis is a powerful tool to differentiate the
282

--- Page 297 ---
EARTH OBSERVATIONS
characteristics of the ground clutter and noise from the atmospheric turbluence echo at
the time series level.
Radar imaging radar is kind of radar equipment used for imaging. A typical radar
technology includes emitting radio waves, receiving their reflection, and using this
information to generate data. For an imaging radar, the returning waves are used to
create an image.
When the radio waves reflect off objects, this will make some changes in the radio waves
P1.7 and can provide data about the object, including how far the waves travelled and what
kind of objects they encountered. Using the acquired data, a computer can create a two
or three dimensional image of the scatterers. Current radar imaging techniques rely
mainly on Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) and Inverse Synthetic Aperture Radar (ISAR)
imaging.
Monopulse radar 3-D imaging is an emerging technology.
Dual –polarized broadband antenna array is used for UHF profiler radar applications. It
needs to have differentially prove-fed, stacked patch antenna features high port-to-port
P1.8 isolation and correspondingly good cross-polarization characteristics. Besides, it should
have high efficiency and good port-to-port matching. It has to give good polarimetric
performance over a wide scan range without excessive calibration requirements.
Design and development of solid state TR modules for radar applications (NARL)
The transmit/receive (T/R) module is a key component of radar antennas. Significant
improvements in T/R module efficiency will reduce overall power consumption, simplify
P1.9
the thermal design and increase reliability. By miniaturizing the T/R modules, they can
be used for both conventional found based phased array antennas and in lightweight
antennas for the ISRO space missions.
Q Area Calibration and Validation (SAC)
Q1 Sub Area Optical Sensor Calibration(SAC)
Vicarious calibration (SAC)
Development of new Cal-Val sites can be established in synchronous with satellite
over passes in collaborative mode for various Indian satellite missions (INSAT-3DS,
Q1.1 GISAT series, TRISHNA missions etc)For. Presently, the vicarious (absolute) calibration is
performed through simulation of top-of Atmosphere radiance for calibration gain and
offset calculation. For this purpose we developed ocean site at Kavaratti and land site at
Little Rann of Kutch (mostly in campaign mode).
Relative sensor calibration (SAC)
Development of advanced techniques for the relative sensor calibration exercises for
the radiometric performance monitoring of Indian satellites can be performed through
land, ocean, snow and deep convective cloud targets. Presently, the sensor performance
Q1.2
is cross verified with contemporary sensors using synchronous nadir pass and its
measurements. These exercises are performed by normalizing the central wavelength
and out-off band contribution in case of optical sensors. Exploring of radiative
modelling of satellite sensor measured radiance though ground truth measurements.
283

--- Page 298 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Deep convective clouds, Ray-Tracing Techniques over desert and ocean sites can also be
explored for optical sensors calibration both in high and coarser resolutions.
Moon calibration (SAC)
Q1.3 Development of algorithm for the Radiometric performance monitoring using moon
data.
Q2 Sub Area Microwave Sensor Calibration (SAC)
Development of advanced techniques for the data quality evaluation of ISRO’s future
scatterometer can be explored. At present novel approach for data quality evaluation
Q2.1
of Scatterometer (OSCAT-2/3 and ScatSat-1) are being worked out where one can relate
the parameters available at different levels of product to geophysical parameters.
For scatterometer calibration, the essential points includes: i) the monitoring of on-board
calibration data to keep a check on transmitted power and ii) regular monitoring of
Q2.2
time series of backscattered or brightness temperature over invariant sites like Amazon
rainforest, Sahara Desert, Antarctic snow are required.
Development of techniques and new Altimeter calibration and validation site in India
Q2.3
with FRM (Fiducial Reference Measurements) standards using data from a suitable sites.
Q3 Sub Area Geo-Physical Products Validation (SAC)
Validation algorithms (SAC)
Development of automatic procedures for validating various satellite derived geo-
physical parameters from Indian satellite missions (INSAT-3DR/3DS, Oceansat-3/3A,
GISAT-1A and TRISHNA etc.) by following the Protocol development on measurements,
Q3.1
instrument operation, quality control, and calibration standards. Presently, the most
important exercise of validating sensor derived geo-physical products are done using
community vetted matchup methodology and qualifying various data sets (in-situ,
contemporary missions, climate data sets, data from various collaborative agencies, etc.)
Validation of Hyperspectral Satellite Data (PACE-OCI) (SAC)
Development of techniques for the assessment and refinement of hyperspectral remote
Q3.2
sensing retrievals of chlorophyll-a and other phytoplankton pigments, Phytoplankton
Functional Types (PFTs) and phytoplankton specific absorption.
Integration of CHEMTAX and HPLC for Algorithm Validation (SAC)
Development of new algorithms for the use of CHEMTAX-HPLC derived phytoplankton
Q3.3 community composition to validate and refine ocean colour algorithms for pigment-
based estimates of phytoplankton diversity, algal bloom, primary production etc. in
Indian Ocean region using satellite data and sea-truth measurements.
Enhancing validation in ultra-oligotrophic and coastal waters (SAC)
Improvement in validation efforts in very low-chlorophyll regions and optically complex
Q3.4 coastal waters (using the sea-truth data collected during ship and boat cruises) by
incorporating new bio-optical models, adaptive atmospheric correction, and regional
algorithms tailored to case-2 waters.
284

--- Page 299 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
SPACE SCIENCES
A Area Space Situational Awareness (ISTRAC)
A1 Sub Area Space Surveillance (ISTRAC)
Space debris detection and characterisation in optical images (ISTRAC)
Reflected sunlight from Earth-bound resident space objects (RSOs) creates trails in the
digital images obtained via ground as well as space based optical/NIR/IR telescope
sensors. Instantaneous image noise reduction, calibration, RSO streak detection,
A1.1
identification and cataloguing is essential for the orbital determination process. This
research proposal will be dedicated to the development of a software application as a
solution for image reduction as well as calibration and Artificial Intelligence based RSO
streak detection and identification on the fly.
Space object characterisation using Remote Sensing data mining (ISTRAC)
Remote Sensing satellites collect data of Earth from orbit that includes any space object
passing through the Field-of-View (FOV). This information is usually filtered out for
remote sensing applications. The research is towards understanding and developing
an automated software to ingest the remote sensing (RS) satellite images and process
A1.2
the image to identify for presence of any space object. The objective is to extract the
dimensions and shape of the space object through existing RS images. The shape data
of space objects thus captured might be crucial for space object catalogue maintenance
and other SSA applications. Initially, the study may be focused towards RS optical image
processing and later may be extended to other frequency domain observations.
Day time observation of Space object using telescope (ISTRAC)
Observation of space objects through optical telescope gives the data of space object
from which information of its position can be derived. The main hindrance for optical
A1.3 observations is climatic conditions and restriction of observations to night time. The
research is to study and propose a conceptual design for day time passive observation
of space objects. The objective is to compare various methods available for day-time
observation of space debris and finalise a method along with required details for realisation.
A2 Sub Area Planetary Defense (ISTRAC)
Space-based sensors for NEO threat mitigation (ISTRAC)
Planetary defense addresses the risk estimation and mitigation of Near-Earth
asteroid impact with the Earth, which are known to have had catastrophic
effects in the past, including mass extinction of several species. Almost all space-
A2.1
faring agencies have their own planetary defense programmes and in light
of the growing interest in this area, it is necessary to develop awareness and
build technical capabilities in this area through suitable research. Detection,
monitoring and characterization are the essential prerequisite of planetary defence.
285

--- Page 300 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Near Earth Objects (NEOs) coming from day sky having a diameter 10 m or more is difficult
to be detected by any ground based or near-Earth space-based observational facilities.
But at the same time, they can be hazardous as was the case for Chelyabinsk event in
15 February 2013. The proposed research aims to conceptualize realizable space-based
sensors for NEO detection and monitoring to avoid missing detection during close
fly-by. The sensor needs to be located at an optimal place in deep space for timely
detection of the asteroid to enable determination of the orbit, approach velocity, mass
etc. and predict the highest possible accurate atmospheric entry point.
End-to-end automated telescope system design for NEO detection and monitoring
(ISTRAC)
India’s geographic location belongs to the void region where the International Asteroid
Warning Network (IAWN) lacks ground-based sensors for asteroid monitoring. Ground
based asteroid detection system in India, scanning the ecliptic plane with large field-
of-view and high sensitivity will be advantageous for high cadence NEO detection
A2.2 and possible discoveries. This planetary defence driven project of setting up ground-
based sensor will be coupled to a dedicated and integrated software application for
automated detection of asteroids, measuring their astrometry, photometry and finally,
accurately report to MPC. The software should facilitate a minimum human interaction
by optimized and automatic task completion algorithms. The observations will not only
be limited monitoring and discoveries of NEO but also their characterization in terms of
rotation period, sizes, shapes and properties of their surfaces.
Binary asteroid system characterization (ISTRAC)
Scientific understanding of binary asteroids is important in the context of planetary
defence to identify the impact threat and define the mitigation strategy. It is estimated
that 15% of asteroids are double (or triple) body systems. The proposed research is aimed
to detect and characterize spin-orbit interaction of binary systems through modelling the
A2.3
data obtained from optical observations as well as archived survey data and derive binary
nature of the asteroid system such as the orbital period of the primary and secondary
bodies, spin state, spin-orbit coupling, their size ratio and accurate orbital parameters.
The existing binary system catalogue will be augmented and strengthened not only by
the discoveries of new binaries but also by follow up observation of the known ones.
A3 Sub Area Space Debris Mitigation (ISTRAC)
Disposal of inclined geosynchronous objects (ISTRAC)
Currently, IADC guidelines to address disposal of GEO objects within GEO protected zone,
namely with i = 15 deg. Finding stable graveyard orbits for disposal of objects inclined
GSO (such as IRNSS) so that the disposed objects would not re-enter the GEO protected
A3.1
region within a span of at least 100 years is one of the research areas. The study requires
simulation of orbital evolution for different types of GEO objects, taking into account
different perturbations (luni-solar attraction, Geo-potential, Solar Radiation pressure)
over a very long durations with suitable propagation (usually semi-analytical) models.
286

--- Page 301 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
Lunar space debris mitigation and post mission disposal (ISTRAC)
The vast distance and limited deep space tracking stations contribute to greater
observational uncertainty and the poorer knowledge of defunct spacecraft/space
objects in deep space, in addition to orbit prediction under multi-body dynamics which
can sometimes exhibit chaotic effects. At present, the lunar orbit is sparsely populated
with a handful of lunar orbiters. Even then, till date, both Chandrayaan-2 orbiter and the
Korea Pathfinder Lunar Orbiter have undergone 4 collision avoidance maneuvers each.
With the renewed interest in the exploration of the Moon, an increasing number of lunar
A3.2 missions are foreseen in the near future. With the lessons learnt from an unrelentingly
increasing orbital congestion in Earth orbit, it is desirable to contemplate on guidelines
that would ensure the safety and sustainability of space operations in lunar orbits, which
should be aimed at preserving the pristineness of the lunar environment to the extent
possible so as to enable unhindered scientific explorations in future. Formulating such
guidelines requires detailed technical studies on the orbital evolution, assessing the
efficacy of different disposal options (Earth return, heliocentric, Lunar graveyard orbit,
lunar impact). In addition, the options should also take into consideration the tenets of
already established Outer Space Treaties and COSPAR Planetary Protection Policies.
Resolution of Multiple On-orbit Conjunction Risks (ISTRAC)
The risk of collision between two objects is usually quantified in terms of the minimum
separation between two objects (the miss distance) and probability of collision (Pc).
As of now, multiple critical conjunctions/close approaches within a short time period
(a few hours) happen rarely for an operational satellite, hence, most of the prevailing
collision avoidance strategies address mitigating the collision risks between one pair of
objects (the primary and the secondary) at a time. The lead time also plays a significant
A3.3
role in the delta-v (velocity change) required for collision avoidance. However, the future
scenario will call for multiple conjunction risks to be mitigated and it also needs to be
ensured that resolving one critical conjunction would not lead to worsening situation
for the others. Furthermore, the optimal solution for maximizing miss distance and/or
minimizing probability of collision requires firing in a direction not necessarily aligned
with that of the thruster. The scope of study for finding the apt strategy for mitigating
multiple conjunction risks which can find more practical and widespread implementation.
A4 Sub Area Array Signal Processing (ISTRAC)
ISAR RADAR signal processing for space debris imaging (ISTRAC)
By utilizing the relative motion of the debris and the radar platform, ISAR exploits the
Doppler shifts in the received signal to create detailed two-dimensional images of
A4.1
objects in space. ISAR signal processing techniques need to handle these challenges by
resolving fast-moving targets and differentiating debris from other potential sources of
interference. In ISAR systems, the Doppler shift caused by the relative motion of the radar
287

--- Page 302 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
and the target is used to generate an aperture in the range direction. By processing the
received signal over multiple radar pulses, Doppler frequency variations allow for fine
resolution of space debris in the image. ISAR processing provides both range resolution
(distinguishing objects based on distance) and azimuth resolution (distinguishing
objects based on their relative angle). ISAR uses advanced signal processing techniques
like motion compensation and Doppler filtering to enhance the resolution of the resulting
radar images. ISAR imaging can be achieved by processing multiple radar returns over
time, from different angles of observation. Advanced clutter rejection algorithms, such as
adaptive filtering and time-frequency analysis, are used in ISAR systems to suppress noise
and clutter, ensuring that the focus remains on the debris. By combining ISAR imaging
with track-before-detect algorithms, the radar system can provide near-instantaneous
updates on the location, trajectory, and potential collision risks of debris in space.
Signal Processing Optimization for MIMO Cognitive radar in Space Debris Tracking
(ISTRAC)
The Proliferation of space debris poses a significant threat to active satellite and
crewed mission in Earth’s orbit. To mitigate the treat effectively, advanced radar system
are essential for accurate detection, tracking and characterization of debris Objects.
Among these radar technologies, MIMO (Multiple Input and Multiple Output) Cognitive
radar shows promising potential due to its ability to adaptively adjust its operational
parameters based on environmental conditions and mission objectives. However, signal
processing remains a critical bottleneck in harnessing the full capabilities of MIMO
cognitive radar for space debris tracking.
• To formulate signal processing of MIMO radar signal using compressed sensing for
complexity reduction.
• To develop an algorithm to handle sparse and noisy radar measurements
A4.2 characteristics of space debris.
• To compose interference cancellation algorithm for the detection of fast moving
debris.
• To formulate MIMO radar with appropriate antenna positioning and transmit
covariance matrix for user defined beam pattern of antenna.
• Design MIMO Cognitive radar Waveform optimized for space debris tracking,
considering factors such as range resolution, Doppler sensitivity and interference
resilience. Adaptive Waveform design algorithms show adjust pulse characteristics
based on target properties and environmental conditions.
• Develop Cogtnitive algorithms to dynamically optimize radar parameters such as
pulse repetition frequency, waveform bandwidth, and transmit power based on real
time observations and mission objectives.
• Development of Signal processing algorithms capable of operating in real time to
support timely decision-making and response.
288

--- Page 303 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
A5 Sub Area Adaptive Debris Detection Algorithm (ISTRAC)
MIMO RADAR based detection and tracking algorithms for space debris radar
(ISTRAC)
MIMO radar can transmit a variety of waveforms from different antenna elements,
enhancing the radar’s ability to detect targets at different ranges and velocities.
Adaptive beamforming allows MIMO radar systems to dynamically steer the radar beams
towards targets of interest, enhancing the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and improving
the detection of space debris. Utilizes multiple transmit and receive antennas, which
increases spatial resolution and provides better angular discrimination. MIMO radar
systems can use clutter suppression techniques to distinguish between space debris
and unwanted background noise. The Doppler shift in the received signals allows
A5.1
MIMO radar systems to estimate the velocity of space debris with high accuracy. This is
essential for tracking the movement of debris and predicting its future position, which is
vital for collision avoidance and orbital management. Data fusion techniques integrate
information from different radar channels to improve the overall detection reliability
and accuracy in dynamic environments. These algorithms process the radar returns as
they are received, providing up-to-date information about the position and velocity of
debris in real-time for situational awareness and response. By simulating space debris
scenarios, including various sizes, trajectories, and sensor configurations, designers can
fine-tune radar waveforms and signal processing algorithms to maximize detection and
tracking performance in real-world conditions.
Cognitive MIMO RADAR algorithms for adaptive resource allocation and scheduling
based on target classification and detection for adaptable environmental condition
(ISTRAC)
By dynamically modifying waveforms, transmission power, and resource allocation,
cognitive radar systems optimize performance for varying environmental conditions,
such as clutter, interference, or atmospheric changes. Adaptive resource allocation
in cognitive MIMO radar allows the system to optimize power, frequency, and
waveform distribution based on the characteristics of the detected target. Once the
target is classified, the radar can adapt its resource allocation, focusing more energy
A5.2
on accurately tracking or identifying high-priority targets (e.g., large space debris or
objects with unknown trajectories). The system adjusts waveform parameters (e.g.,
frequency, pulse duration) and antenna configurations to maximize performance
under different environmental scenarios, ensuring robust detection and tracking.
By prioritizing targets that require urgent tracking or monitoring, the radar system
optimizes its scanning efficiency and reduces unnecessary overhead, improving
overall performance in time-sensitive operations. Cognitive MIMO radar optimizes
energy consumption by adapting the power transmitted based on the detection
requirements of the environment and the target. It dynamically adjusts its waveform
289

--- Page 304 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
parameters to avoid or mitigate interference, ensuring that the radar remains effective
even in congested or hostile environments, such as during electronic countermeasures.
The system prioritizes targets based on their classification and detection status, adapting
its resource allocation to ensure continuous, accurate tracking of high-priority objects,
such as fast-moving space debris.
B Area Planetary Geology (IIRS)
B1 Sub Area Lunar and Martian Geology (IIRS)
Geological characterization of lunar and Martian surface features using recent
National and International Missions (IIRS)
Availability of High-resolution optical, multispectral, hyperspectral sensors and elevation
data from various lunar and Martian missions can be utilized to characterize geological
features like impact basins, craters and volcanoes and related landforms by analysing them
for mineralogy, lithology, morphological, topographical and structural interpretation.
These data with utility for identification, spectral-compositional analysis, geomorphic
evolution and chronological study can be integrated with ground based Spectral-
B1.1
compositional study of various igneous exposures in conjunction with geochemical
study to understand and correlate their mineralogy, composition, formation conditions,
and environment in similar setup at the Moon and Mars.
The proposed project aims to have a detailed geological analysis of landforms
(Volcanic and Impact) and lithology (mafic and silicic) on Moon and Mars by generating
comprehensive geological map, mineral map and quantification of morphological
features using multi-sensor planetary datasets to understand their nature of occurrence,
associated mineralogy, morphological characteristic and geological evolution.
B2 Sub Area Planetary Analogues Study (IIRS / SAC)
Investigation and Detailed characterization of Indian based potential analogue
sites for Moon, Mars and Venus (IIRS)
Terrestrial analogue sites on the Earth are crucial locations to explore and understand
the geology, geochemical processes and paleo-environmental conditions similar
to that on other planetary bodies including the Moon, Mars and Venus. India with
its diverse geological past, its distinct geography and varied geological features is a
B2.1 natural laboratory for research on geological processes, evaluating mineral resources
and explore habitability among these analog sites. These locations include volcanic
landforms, impact craters, distinct lithologies and landforms. The proposal envisage
to systematic investigate, analyze and characterize the geological and geochemical
properties of important potential analogue sites for Moon and Mars through use of
a multidisciplinary methodology that incorporates fieldwork, remote sensing, and
laboratory-based geochemical study. The study will examine how these results may
290

--- Page 305 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
affect plans for future Moon and Mars missions, specifically with regard to choosing
landing locations for astrobiological research, mineral resource and human exploration.
The proposed project aims at development of database (spectroscopic, geochemical
and geological) for Indian-based Martian, Lunar and Venus analog sites that can be used
for astrobiology and planetary science study to provide inputs for ISRO’s future rover
and lander mission to the Moon and Mars.
Pre-investment Studies for Future Planetary Missions (SAC)
• Characterization of potential landing sites for Chandrayaan-4 & 5 and follow-on
missions.
B2.2 • Modelling and simulation studies catering to sensor definitions of future payloads.
• Analysis of data from global missions to understand the surface and atmospheric
processes , and to identify the science gaps and proposing instruments for addressing
them.
C Area Planetary Science, Astrobiology, SAR Remote Sensing (SAC / PRL)
Planetary Mineralogy and Geochemistry; Raman Spectroscopic
C1 Sub Area Analysis of Planetary Materials; Detection of Biosignatures in
Extraterrestrial Environments (PRL)
Exploration of planetary minerals and astrobiology signals using Raman
spectroscopy (SAC / PRL)
Investigating planetary surfaces for their mineral composition and possible
astrobiological indicators is essential for comprehending planetary evolution and
assessing the potential for extraterrestrial life. Raman spectroscopy, a highly sensitive
and non-invasive analytical technique, has proven to be a valuable tool for on-site
planetary studies. This research seeks to evaluate the capability of Raman spectroscopy
in identifying significant planetary minerals and detecting possible biosignatures in
extraterrestrial settings. The study will involve simulating planetary environments,
C1.1 examining Raman spectral characteristics of key minerals, and differentiating between
abiotic and biotic signatures. To enhance detection accuracy, advanced spectroscopic
data analysis methods, including machine learning and comparative spectral databases,
will be utilized. The outcomes of this research will aid future planetary missions by
optimizing instrument design and improving the effectiveness of Raman spectroscopy
in identifying traces of past or present life beyond Earth. This research aims to
provide essential insights for future space missions, particularly those utilizing Raman
spectroscopy as a key component of rover and lander instruments. By combining studies
of planetary mineralogy with astrobiology, this study will enhance our understanding
of planetary habitability and contribute to the ongoing search for life in the universe.
291

--- Page 306 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Planetary Geology and Surface Processes; Geophysical Parameter
C2 Sub Area Retrieval and Surface Characterization; Geomorphological and
Structural Mapping of Planetary Bodies
Advancing Planetary Surface Analysis: Geophysical and Structural Insights from
Spaceborne SAR Data (SAC)
The study of planetary surfaces is essential for understanding their geological evolution,
surface dynamics, and potential habitability. Spaceborne Synthetic Aperture Radar
(SAR) has become a crucial tool in planetary exploration, offering high-resolution
imaging capabilities that penetrate atmospheric and surface layers, providing valuable
geophysical and structural information. This research aims to utilize SAR data to analyze
and characterize key surface and subsurface features of planetary bodies. The study
C2.1 will focus on extracting geophysical and structural parameters using advanced SAR
techniques. These methods will help assess surface roughness, dielectric properties, and
structural properties. By integrating SAR-derived insights with other remote sensing
data, this research will enhance our understanding of planetary geological processes
and surface evolution. The findings of this study will contribute to ongoing and future
planetary exploration missions. By refining SAR data processing techniques, this
research will improve planetary surface mapping, facilitate subsurface investigations,
and support the broader goal of exploring planetary environments for scientific and
exploration purposes.
C3 Sub Area Dust Devils (PRL)
Convective vortices (dust devils) inject dust into the atmosphere, which is then
transported by global winds and strongly moderates the Martian climate system directly
C3.1 through the radiative impact of local and global dust storms, and indirectly by affecting
the complex ion photochemistry. We are studying the characteristics of such dust devils
on Mars through modeling and remote sending observations.
C4 Sub Area Photochemistry Coupled GCM of Mars and Venus (PRL)
The current climate of Mars and Venus is controlled by interactions between chemical
tracers (such as ozone), water vapour and dust aerosols, coupled through dynamics
and radiative processes. Scientists at PRL are studying these interactions with varying
C4.1 levels of complexity. The latest efforts are to understand the couplings through a
photochemistry coupled general circulation model (GCM). The current focus is also to
understand boundary layer processes (through which the surface forcings influence the
free atmosphere) through mesoscale modeling.
C5 Sub Area Planetary Lightning (PRL)
The current climate of Mars and Venus is controlled by interactions between chemical
C5.1
tracers (such as ozone), water vapour and dust aerosols, coupled through dynamics
292

--- Page 307 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
and radiative processes. Scientists at PRL are studying these interactions with varying
levels of complexity. The latest efforts are to understand the couplings through a
photochemistry coupled general circulation model (GCM). The current focus is also to
understand boundary layer processes (through which the surface forcings influence the
free atmosphere) through mesoscale modeling.
C6 Sub Area Planetary Remote Sensing (PRL/SAC/IIRS)
Remote sensing data from Moon, Mars along with other planetary bodies are useful
to understand the evolution of these planetary bodies. They are used to understand
C6.1
surface and geological processes such as impact cratering, glaciation and volcanic
activities using surface and subsurface analysis.
Understanding Planetary processes through Meteorites and
C7 Sub Area
Planetary Samples (PRL)
Isotopic and noble gas studies of meteorites and planetary samples can help us
understand the origin and formation process of planetary bodies. It also gives us time
line of materials evolution in the proto solar system and time scale information in the
early solar system.
C7.1
Analysis of organic matter from various meteorites can provide the constraints on
thermal and aqueous alteration taking place at the Asteroidal region. Carbon isotopic
studies in carbonaceous Chondrites can help understand the origin, identification of
C bearing reservoir and migration of volatiles in early solar system.
C8 Sub Area Planetary Environmental Simulations and Analogue Studies (PRL)
Laboratory measurements of planetary analogous materials under simulated
environments provide key support to the definition of science and measurement
objectives of ground-based, orbital, and lander observations; instrument design and
calibration; mission planning; and analysis and interpretation of retrieved data. The
main aspect of such a work would be to design and develop environmental chambers/
C8.1 facility of different scales and capabilities that can simulate astrophysical and planetary
environments and conduct experiments using analogous samples under these
environments. Study of analogues found on Earth can reveal processes we might expect
on planetary bodies. For example, identification of new impact structures in Indian
Subcontinent and meteorite expedition in hot and cold deserts in India could be useful
areas of investigation.
In-situ technologies for planetary surface and sub-surface science
C9 Sub Area
(PRL)
We are at the verge of a new epoch of robotic exploration of solar system bodies. The
next generation of scientific missions to planetary bodies of our Solar System requires
C9.1
development of advanced robotic technologies for in-situ surface and sub-surface
science (for examples core drilling and sample collection techniques). These missions
293

--- Page 308 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
have also motivated initiation of the design and development of highly capable
and miniaturized science instruments for carrying out in-situ surface and sub-surface
science.
Outer solar system studies with emphasis on Icy bodies/satellites
C10 Sub Area
(PRL)
Comets are among the least altered objects in our solar system. They can preserve the
chemical and physical signatures of the protoplanetary disk that formed the solar system.
In addition, the discovery of the first interstellar comet 2I Borisov opens the doorway to
C10.1
studying comets in exo-planetary systems. In our group, we study the hydrodynamical
conditions and the formation of simple through complex molecules in the cometary
atmosphere and the cometary nucleus.
C11 Sub Area Planetary Plasma Physics (PRL)
Investigating Plasma Environments on the Moon (PRL)
The aim is to investigate unique lunar plasma environments with significant implications
for solar wind/ ambient plasma interaction with the lunar surface. The SARA instrument
on the Chandrayaan‐1 has confirmed the existence of the mini-magnetosphere in the
strong magnetic anomaly region of the Moon. This region produces a unique plasma
environment by shielding the surface from the solar wind and reducing the effect of
space weathering. Understanding the governing plasma interactions in this region is
crucial for estimating dust dynamics and transport around the Moon.
C11.1
The lunar Permanently Shadowed Regions (PSRs), with permanent darkness and
complex local surface topography, present another unique plasma environment. The
local relief, namely the craters and mountains, obstruct the solar irradiation and cause
mini-wakes around the leeward wall. It alters the electrical configuration in the vicinity
of the local structures and significantly affects the local dust and plasma behaviour. The
retention, dynamical evolution, and loss of water ice and other volatiles are affected in
these two environments. The combined influence of lunar magnetic anomalies and PSRs
are of particular interest, which might offer potential advantages for resource extraction
and long-term lunar habitation.
Protoplanetary Disk Dynamics and Structure Formation: MHD Effects (PRL)
The focuses on investigating non-ideal magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) effects on
protoplanetary disk (PPD) dynamics, particularly in the context of structure formation.
Recent evidence supports planetary formation through gravitational instability,
C11.2
highlighting the importance of understanding the underlying mechanisms.
Non-ideal MHD processes, including Ohmic diffusion, ambipolar diffusion, and the Hall
effect, are crucial in resolving the angular momentum and magnetic flux problems
during PPD formation.
294

--- Page 309 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
The non-ideal MHD effects may yield insights of the propagation of thermal and
gravitational modes and associated instabilities in rotating, partially ionized magnetized
plasmas. These mechanisms are the key in understanding the formation of various
astrophysical and planetary structures.
Plasma processes near-Earth space & its implications (PRL)
The plasma processes in LEO and MEO ionospheric regions become essential as their
interaction with orbiting bodies/ debris produces different waveforms. These waveforms
can eventually be the signature for detecting sub-cm size debris floating around the
earth in space. These small pieces can have disastrous effects on essential assets, capable
of disabling an instrument or a critical flight system on a satellite, and are considered the
highest mission-ending risk to most of the operating robotic spacecraft. The proposal
C11.3 intends to characterize the possible waveforms and their practical implications.
Another interesting aspect is the exploring the dust dynamics under microgravity
conditions. Electromagnetic processes dominate such a low gravity and give an
opportunity to understand the short range electromatic forces responsible for forming
dust structures and coagulations. The dust behaviour and mutual electromagnetic
interactions, are the basis for understanding the dust cluster and cloud formation in
space. This study is quite relevant to the scientific experiments in the forthcoming
GaganYaan and planned Indian space station.
Connecting Whistlers and lightning in the Venusian atmosphere (PRL / VSSC)
Wave-particle interactions lead to the acceleration and scattering of particles, the
damping or the growth of waves, and the emission of radiation. The interactions in which
waves exchange energy with the particles play a crucial role in several phenomena
occurring in space plasma, planetary atmosphere, and laboratory.
A specific process involves whistlers generated by atmospheric lightening and electron
plasma oscillations associated with suprathermal particles in the upstream solar wind.
C11.4
Such whistler modes are detected in the Venusian atmosphere at satellite altitudes;
however, their connection with discharge/ electrification is still not understood. The
proposal may include the investigations on generating possible plasma waves, and
summarizing its role in growth and developing instabilities and contributions to the
energies of the suprathermal charged particles. It is also meant to predict whether
whistler waves produced by lightning can propagate in the region of 300-500 km above
the surface of Venus and, if so, under which conditions.
C12 Sub Area Compositional Maps of the Moon (URSC)
Sub-pixel Resolution Compositional Maps using CLASS X-ray Fluorescence Data
C12.1
(URSC)
295

--- Page 310 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
CLASS on Chandrayaan-2 has yielded several thousands of X-ray fluorescence spectra
over a period of 5 years. These are of various spatial resolutions as solar activity is variable.
With a knowledge of the geological context, an algorithm to extract sub-pixel resolution
information from CLASS is sought. A possible example is the Pixon reconstruction
method which is an image re-construction technique.
Solar Wind Interaction with Induced Magnetospheres of Planets
C13 Sub Area
(VSSC)
Physics-based Modeling of Solar Wind Interaction with Induced Magnetospheres
of Venus and Mars (VSSC)
Venus and Mars lack an intrinsic magnetic field, unlike Earth. However, they possess
an induced magnetosphere around them due to continuous solar wind flow draping
the planetary body. Limited in situ observations by past and current spacecraft of the
induced magnetospheres of Venus and Mars lack a global picture of the magnetosphere
dynamics. Physics-based models, specifically the Magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) model,
provide a crucial global perspective on their structure and dynamics.
The proposed research will use MHD/hybrid modeling to simulate and analyze the
complex interactions between the solar wind and these non-magnetized planetary
bodies. The primary objectives of this study include evaluating the impact of the solar
wind and transient solar phenomena such as Interplanetary Coronal Mass Ejections
C13.1
(ICMEs), Corotating Interaction Regions (CIRs), and Interplanetary (IP) shocks on the
induced magnetosphere and plasma environment of Venus and Mars.
This investigation will advance our understanding of space weather effects on planetary
atmospheres, atmospheric escape mechanisms, and plasma dynamics, laying the
groundwork for future planetary exploration. By bridging observational gaps through
high-fidelity simulations, this research will offer critical insights into solar-planetary
interactions, supporting planning and science from ISRO’s current and future planetary
missions.
The developed model needs to be validated against available magnetic and plasma
observations from past missions around Venus and Mars. Upon the completion of this
project, we expect to have a validated MHD model code /software package for simulating
the solar wind interaction with Venus and Mars.
D Area Space and Atmospheric Sciences (PRL)
D1 Sub Area Investigations on Near-Earth Environment (PRL)
Heliosphere, solar wind, energetic particles and Space weather (PRL)
In view of the successful Aditya-L1 mission and the excellent data coming from the
D1.1
Aditya Solar wind Particle EXperiment (ASPEX) payload, research on heliospheric physics
has been initiated. ASPEX consists of Solar Wind Ion Spectrometer (SWIS) and Supra-
296

--- Page 311 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
Thermal and Energetic Particle Spectrometer (STEPS). SWIS is a low energy spectrometer
for solar wind studies based on the variations in the protons (H+) and alpha (He+2)
particles and solar wind bulk parameters like density, velocity, temperature etc. On the
other hand, STEPS is a high energy spectrometer for studies on energetic ions in the
interplanetary medium. Excellent data from ASPEX have opened up new avenues for
heliospheric physics research that include properties, characteristics, origin, acceleration,
anisotropy of solar wind and energetic particles. The impact of transient interplanetary
disturbances like Interplanetary Coronal Mass Ejections (ICME), Stream Interaction
Regions (SIR) and Solar Energetic Particles (SEP) on the terrestrial and planetary space
weather can also be investigated using ASPEX data. Therefore, using ASPEX data and
combining with other measurements, significant progress can be made in understanding
heliosphere, solar wind, energetic particles and Space weather.
Magnetosphere-Ionosphere-Thermosphere (MIT) Coupling (PRL)
The energy and momentum transfer from the solar wind and magnetosphere to the
Ionosphere-Thermosphere (IT) system changes the electric field, ion drifts, electron
D1.2 density, neutral density, neutral wind, etc. For a comprehensive assessment of the
impact of space weather at the IT heights, various space and ground-based experiments
are used to understand the plasma and neutral processes and their interactions during
geomagnetic storms and magnetosphericsubstorms.
Wave particle interaction at the radiation belt (PRL)
D1.3 The wave particle interaction at the terrestrial radiation belt, acceleration of radiation
belt electrons and the role of solar wind shocks are investigated.
Equatorial, middle and high-latitude upper atmospheric phenomena (PRL)
The equatorial, middle and high-latitude processes are replete with unique atmospheric
processes of their own. This is essentially due to the configuration of magnetic field lines
which are different at different latitudes and thereby affect the neutral plasma motion in
different ways at different latitudes. The horizontal nature of magnetic field orientation
over geomagnetic equatorial, and low-latitude regions generates dynamo effect which
gives rise to equatorial electric fields and several associated processes such as the
equatorial electrojet, plasma fountain effect/equatorial ionization anomaly, neutral
D1.4
anomaly, equatorial temperature and wind anomaly, and convective ionospheric
irregularities, among others. Particle precipitation at high-latitudes during geomagnetic
storms/space weather events present additional source of energy and momentum to
the earth’s upper atmospheric regions which contribute to the generation of neutral
and plasma waves and setting up of winds and creation of plasma irregularities. Several
state-of-the-art radio propagation techniques, magnetic measurements, and in-house
built optical techniques are used to answer highly pertinent questions of global
importance and global scales.
297

--- Page 312 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Daytime upper atmospheric neutral wave dynamics (PRL)
The solar ionizing radiation incident in the daytime upper atmospheric regions gives
riseto several phenomena due to availability of additional energy and differential
heating that sets up driving forces in several directions. While radio measurementsare
available for the investigation of the ionized part of the upper atmosphere, the
neutral part of the atmosphere can be studied by the naturally occurring optical
D1.5
airglow emissions. New in-house built techniques and approaches have been evolved
at to enable the measurement of these airglow emissions in the day time against
the strong solar scattered background contribution. A new field of day time optical
aeronomy has emerged, wherein investigations of neutral gravity waveactivity
that exists in the daytime, is now possible. Several new insightful results have
been obtained and there exists a great potential in this nascent area of research.
Space Weather effects at high- and mid-latitude ionosphere thermosphere system
(PRL)
The high- and middle-latitude ionosphere-thermosphere regions are especially affected
by the particle precipitation at high latitude and ensuing electric fields and currents
that are formed in the auroral oval wherein convective cells are formed. The local time
D1.6 dependence and simultaneous role of substorms, shocks, disturbance dynamo etc. in
generating the extreme electric field disturbances in the ionosphere are investigated.
Daytime polar cusp aurora, polar cap patches, stable auroral red arcs, stable auroral
polarization streams, storm enhanced density plumes, and associated affects are of
research interest in the characterization of space weather effects on the terrestrial
ionosphere thermosphere system.
Impact of mid-latitude ionospheric processes and irregularities on low latitudes
(PRL)
The impact of Medium Scale Travelling Ionospheric Disturbances (MSTID) on low latitude
D1.7
ionospheric electrodynamics is investigated. Further, the characterization of mid latitude
irregularities at the transition region of low-mid latitude boundary is also being carried
out in recent times.
Vertical coupling of atmospheric regions (PRL)
Earth’s atmospheric regions are organized with respect to its temperature structure.
Different regions are governed by different convective and dynamic processes and so
D1.8 have been conventionally considered to be behaving independent of one another.
Due to multipronged daytime, nighttime, optical, radio, magnetic, re-analysis, and
other global datasets it has been shown that efficiency in vertical (upward) coupling
of atmosphericregions is solar activity dependent over long timescale with greater
298

--- Page 313 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
efficiency during low-solar activity epoch. On smaller timescales tropospheric
convective storms (few hours) and stratospheric sudden warming events (several
days) give rise to vertical coupling of atmospheric regions. Several ensuing processes,
mechanisms, and consequences of such vertical coupling is a topic of research that’s
being pursued in PRL.
Investigations of Mesosphere Lower Thermosphere (MLT) region (PRL)
MLT region is dominated by the effect of waves (planetary, tides end gravity waves) that
originate in the lower atmosphere and propagate upwards which consequently gain large
amplitudes that leads to wave breaking and momentum deposition.Multi-wavelength
airglow observations using optical techniques, measurements of mesospheric rotational
temperatures using OH Meinel and O atmospheric bands (both ground andsatellite
2
D1.9 based),and modelling studies are required for a comprehensive understanding of the
processesin the MLT region.The topics of interest are: Couplings (vertical, latitudinal,
longitudinal) of the atmospheres under varying geophysical conditions, atmospheric
waves in the MLT region, long-term changes in the MLT region, effects of Sudden
Stratospheric Warming(SSW) from high-latitude on global MLT dynamics, Mesospheric
Temperature Inversion(MTI) and it’s possible causative mechanism, high frequency
waves inthe MLT region.
Wave dynamical coupling in lower and middle atmosphere (PRL)
Atmospheric waves (gravity waves, tides, planetary waves) are most important coupling
agents in the lower and upper atmospheric processes. They are generated in the lower
atmosphere due to various disturbances and propagate upwards. Their interaction with
background wind and other waves leads exchange of their energy with the surroundings
D1.10
at different altitudes. Additionally, the low latitude regions are substantially influenced
by a number of unique wave activities due to maximum solar incident radiation and
resulting large scale convection activities compared to the mid and high latitudes.
Therefore, investigation of equatorial dynamics draws an additional importance to
address global scale atmospheric dynamics.
Variability of upper atmospheric wind and temperature (PRL)
As the upper atmosphere is affected by the forcings from both top and bottom, the
dynamical state of it varies significantly over various scales. The variability can be
D1.11
found effectively in the dynamical parameters, e.g. wind, temperature etc. Therefore,
by investigating the variability of these parameters one can delineate the dominant
processes occurring therein.
299

--- Page 314 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Upper atmospheric modelling over the equatorial and low latitudes using advanced
techniques (PRL)
A broad range of user applications are crucially reliant or affected by the state of the
ionosphere. As such, modeling and correction of these impacts is subsequently highly
sensitive to the choice of ionospheric representation. The equatorial and low latitude
ionosphere exhibits high degree of variability due to the presence of electrodynamic
processes such as the Equatorial Electrojet (EEJ), Equatorial Ionization Anomaly (EIA), etc.
D1.12
Consequently, the height distribution of ionospheric electron density significantly vary
with time, season, latitude, longitude and solar activity. Quantitative representation of
the short and long term variations of different ionospheric parameters is a major requisite
to develop accurate ionospheric models over the low latitude sectors. Developing new
methodologies and formulations by employing Artificial Intelligence and Machine
Learning (AI/ML) tools will bring new avenues to characterize low latitude ionospheric
variabilities towards achieving improved accuracy in model development.
D2 Sub Area Atmospheric Aerosols and Trace Gases (PRL)
Radiative and Climate Impacts: Observations and Modelling (PRL)
To characterize different aerosol types and gaseous pollutants, their spatial and temporal
variations, understand their linkages with physical, chemical and dynamical processes,
D2.1 and study their impact on environment, radiation budget and climate.
1. Atmospheric Aerosols: Characterization, Radiative and Climate Impacts.
2. Biomass burning and Aerosols.
3. Trace Gases: Chemistry, Transport and Effects.
D3 Sub Area Cloud Research (PRL)
Investigations of Atmospheric Clouds and Boundary Layer Characteristics (PRL)
To characterize different types clouds their structures, Cloud BaseHeights, Wave-cloud
D3.1
interactions, Microphysics of clouds, Clouddynamical features. Dynamics of atmospheric
Boundary layer.
Development of Indian Lidar Network (ILIN) (PRL)
To investigate Atmospheric Cloud characteristics, Boundary layerdynamics, Vertical
distribution of atmospheric water vapor and otheratmospheric constituents over
D3.2
different regions of India; we areestablishing a network of Lidar laboratories (ILIN) in the
differentparts of India covering different regions (North, South, North East, West and
Central India).
E Area Solar Physics (PRL)
E1 Sub Area Helioseismology (PRL)
Helioseismology is based on precise measurements of solar acoustic oscillations. The
E1.1
study of the solar global oscillations during major flares have shown that such energetic
300

--- Page 315 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
transients taking place in the solar environment can generate pressure impulses in the
Sun. The knowledge gleaned from these solar results could be useful in identifying the
asteroseismic signatures of such transients in solar-like pulsating stars. The study of
these acoustic oscillations in the sunspots during major flares have shown that abrupt
changes in solar magnetic fields can lead to impulsive changes in Lorentz force acting
on the sunspots, which results into inducing acoustic emission in the sunspots. These
acoustic emissions could be helpful in better understanding of physical dynamics
beneath the sunspots. Additionally, such magnetically driven acoustic emissions can
travel upward into the solar atmosphere as magnetoacoustic waves and thereby can
heat the active region atmospheres. It is also believed that acoustic waves intermittently
interact with the background solar magnetic fields. Application of wavelet technique to
the velocity signals shows leakage of photospheric oscillations into the chromosphere.
Gravity waves in the solar atmosphere are now increasingly recognised as an important
contributor to the dynamics and energetics of the lower solar atmosphere. The study
of two-height velocity-velocity cross-spectra and phase and coherence signals in the
wavenumber-frequency dispersion diagrams and their association with background
magnetic fields would be quite useful in understanding the propagation characteristics
of these gravity waves.
Further, the results and understanding obtained from the global seismology of the
Sun are now being utilized in the study of global properties of sun-like pulsating stars
exploiting the stellar pulsations. This has led to the evolution of a new field, namely,
helio- and asteroseismology. The study of magnetic activity in such stars can improve
our understanding of the stellar activity cycles and the stellar flares. The studies of
oscillations observed in the Sun and other sun-like stars also allow us to test the physics
in extreme conditions of stellar interiors as well as help us refine models of internal
structure and evolution of stars.
E2 Sub Area Flux emergence and the coupling of the solar atmosphere (PRL)
The emergence of magnetic fields on the solar photosphere occurs on a wide range of
spatial and temporal scales. Investigating the processes of flux emergence is essential for
understanding how the magnetic field couples the solar atmosphere and in determining
i) The heating of the transition region and corona.
ii) The production ofsmall-scale transients.
E2.1
iii) The instabilities driving mass ejections from the Sun.
This field of solar physics requires multi-wavelength andmulti-resolution observations
which will provide an unprecedented view of the Sun and its magnetic field with the
next-generation ground-based telescopes and space missions becoming operational
within 2-3 years.
301

--- Page 316 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Magnetic field and velocity mapping for prediction of solar
E3 Sub Area
eruptions (PRL)
Solar surface magnetic field is measured to monitor magnetic energy storage and
evolution of the stresses leading up to these eruptions combined with the velocity
E3.1 measurements on the surface. Above the surface, physical parameters of the
chromospheric and coronal phenomena are being used to predict the geoeffectiveness
of these eruptions.
E4 Sub Area Solar cycle variation, prediction of activity cycle (PRL)
The 11-year activity cycle is a dominant characteristic of the Sun and also the solar
dynamo that generates the solar magnetic field. The discovery of solar magnetic fields
introduced a 22-year periodicity, as the magnetic polarities of the polar regions change
sign every 11 years. Correlations have been identified and quantified among all the
E4.1
measured parameters, but in most cases such correlations remain empirical rather than
grounded in physical processes. For a better physical understanding of solar physics a
systematic reassessment of solar activity indices and their usefulness in describing and
predicting the solar activity cycle is required.
E5 Sub Area Study of solar rotation (PRL)
The differential rotation of the Sun plays a key role in the formation of sunspots and
thereby governs the solar activity cycle. Recently it is shown that the solar corona also
shows differential rotation with increasing height (or, temperature). Furthermore, the
E5.1 study of North-South asymmetry in the rotation of the Sun has indicated that this
asymmetry leads the solar activity cycle. The study of chromospheric rotation with
height and its variation over the solar activity cycle can improve our understanding
about the differential nature of the solar rotation.
E6 Sub Area The heating of solar corona and transition region (PRL)
The tenuous outer atmosphere of the Sun commonly known as ‘corona’, is orders
of magnitude hotter (> 1 MK) than the solar surface (< 6000 K). It is now widely
accepted that magnetic field plays an important role in the heating of solar corona.
Magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) waves and small-scale transients (e.g., microflare, nano-
flare, spicules) are proposed to provide sufficient energy to maintain the hot corona and
E6.1
transition region. Although there exist ample observations of wave propagation and
small-scale transients in the solar atmosphere, the exact physical processes/mechanisms
behind their dissipation and contribution to the heating of coronal plasmas are still
unclear and not fully quantified. Therefore, a thorough assessment of the role of each of
these proposed mechanisms is required.
302

--- Page 317 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
Transient Phenomena: Flares, Eruptive Filaments/Prominences,
E7 Sub Area
Coronal Mass Ejections (PRL)
CMEs inject large amounts of mass and magnetic fields into the heliosphere, causing
major geomagnetic storms and interplanetary shocks, which are a key source of solar
energetic particles. CMEs are often associated with erupting prominences and flares but
our physical understanding of how and why CMEs are initiated is poor. It is important
to carry out long term and high resolution studies of source regions of CMEs and also
monitor their manifestations in the solar wind. Further, study of halo-like CMEs, which
suggest the launch of a geoeffective disturbance toward Earth is also very important
for space weather forecasting purpose. The fast and wide CMEs produce coronal and
interplanetary shocks which are observed as type II radio bursts in meter and Decameter-
hectometer(DH) wavelengths. The investigation of solar radio bursts in metric and DH
E7.1
wavelengths is also extremely important in view of probing the origin and propagation
of CMEs.
During the transients, the Sun releases large amounts of plasma and magnetic fields
into interplanetary space. These events often generate bursts of radiation across the
electromagnetic spectrum, including radio wavelengths, driven by fast electrons.
Identifying and tracking moving radio sources within solar storms is essential to
investigate their origin, emission mechanisms, and internal magnetic fields. Combining
solar radio images with spacecraft data will help uncover the connection between
radio bursts, CMEs, and multi-wavelength signatures to understand space weather
disturbances better.
E8 Sub Area Multi-wavelength studies of the Sun (PRL)
Our understanding of the solar interior, the visible outer layers, and the “invisible” corona
are not complete. New developments in the observational techniques from ground and
space in optical, X-ray, ultra-violet and radio regimes of the electromagnetic spectrum
are expected to continuously extend the frontiers of knowledge of the Sun in particular
E8.1 the eruptive phenomena such as flares and CMEs. Further, the HXR spectroscopy of solar
flares is of particular importance to explore the basic physics of particle acceleration
and explosive energy release in solar flares. Combination of imaging and spectroscopic
observations in X-ray regime would reveal the location and strength of accelerated
electrons and ions besides that of the hottest plasma.
E9 Sub Area Numerical simulation for solar atmosphere (PRL)
The solar corona is intriguing because of its million degree Kelvin temperature and
hosting eruptive processes which releases energy and mass which influence the
space weather. In absence of any reliable measurement of the coronal magnetic field,
E9.1
it becomes important to numerically construct it using photospheric observations
from ground and space based observatories. Additionally, state-of-the-art computer
simulations are employed to explore the coronal dynamics.
303

--- Page 318 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Heliospheric evolution of CMEs and their space weather impact
E10 Sub Area
(PRL)
When coronal mass ejections or CMEs are launched from the Sun, they arrive at Earth
within 1-4 days depending upon their initial speeds and their level of interaction
with the ambient solar wind through which they travel. Research is being carried out
E10.1 for a better understanding of the expansion and propagation of CMEs in the inner
heliosphere, thereby improving the forecasting of CME arrival and their impact on the
Earth’s atmosphere. Such knowledge is crucial, as energetic and high speed CMEs are
known to be the major cause of severe disturbances of the Earth’s space weather.
E11 Sub Area Solar Wind Turbulence (PRL)
Even after 60 years since its discovery, the physics of solar wind remains elusive. Multiple
spacecrafts continuously sample various solar wind parameters at different heliospheric
distances. These data reveal that the magnetic plasma of the solar wind is turbulent in
nature. However, the generation and dissipation mechanisms of this turbulence remains
an unsolved problem. In-situ data further reveal that the collisionless nature of the
magnetic plasma gives rise to several waves and instabilities in the heliosphere, which
in turn interact with the solar wind plasma. Elemental abundances of the solar wind
also change in a non-trivial way. Many of these problems are thought to be interlinked.
E11.1
They are also supposed to be connected to the lower corona. A thorough understanding
of turbulence, wave-particle interaction, and elemental abundances of the heliosphere
may unfold many important questions about it. Such can be done either through
sophisticated numerical simulations or through existing spacecraft data analysis.
Data analysis from the Parker Solar Probe (PSP), the Advanced Composition Explorer
(ACE), WIND, STEREO, etc., gives a detailed understanding of the heliosphere. Through
such analyses, one also gains experience in tackling data from the in-situ instruments
(e.g., ASPEX, PAPA, Magnetometer) onboard Aditya-L1.
F Area Astronomy & Astrophysics (PRL)
F1 Sub Area Minor Bodies of the Solar system (PRL)
Comets and Asteroids (PRL)
Comets and asteroids form the major part of the population of small bodies of the Solar
System. These objects were scattered into different directions during the proto-solar
nebula phase as the planets formed. This has given rise to many reservoirs of comets
and asteroids. As they come closer to the Sun, the material constituting the comet starts
to sublimate and is thrown out. The ejected material develops into a coma and tail. The
F1.1
characteristics of the dust in the coma can be studied by measuring the polarization
induced by scattering of solar light by the dust. The dust properties and the chemical
composition of the coma allow to infer the basic building blocks of the Solar system. We
have a long running program to study the dust properties and the composition of the
comets and asteroids. For this we make use of optical polarimetry, imaging as well as
spectroscopy with the observing facilities operated by PRL at Mt Abu.
304

--- Page 319 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
Near Earth Objects (NEOs) (PRL)
Near Earth Objects and Potentially Hazardous Objects Most of the asteroid population in
the Solar system is confined to a belt between Mars and Jupiter. However, some of the
asteroids do have orbits that bring them closer into the inner Solar system. Asteroids
that have perihelion distances less than the 1 AU are known as Near Earth Objects (NEO).
During some part of their orbit, they may approach close to the Earth. Asteroids are
F1.2
typically quite faint objects (mag fainter than 17) but when they come close to the Earth,
they can brighten up substantially allowing for detailed observations with even smaller
telescopes. A small fraction of the NEOs with the minimum orbit intersection distance
with Earth of less than 0.05 AU are called Potentially Hazardous Objects. Close approach
by the Near-Earth-Objects (NEOs) provides a unique opportunity to study these very
numerous, but normally very faint population of minor bodies in the solar system.
F2 Sub Area Extra-Solar Planets (PRL)
A new program for detection and characterization of exoplanets using optical fiber-
fed stabilized high-resolution spectroscopy was initiated at the Mt. Abu Gurushikar
Observatory of PRL. The project is called PRL Advanced Radial-velocity Abu-sky Search
(PARAS). PARAS have the capability to a level of sub-2m/s precision on bright stars (<
6.5 mag) and 5 to 10m/s on fainter stars up to 10th mag. PARAS was involved in the first
F2.1 detection of an exoplanet from the Country (India) which has a mass of a 27 Earth mass.
In the near future we will have 2.5m telescope and PARAS-2 for sub-1m/s precision,
which will able to detect super Earths in close orbits around G and K dwarfs. We also
have a 43cm wide field telescope for doing exoplanet transit observations. Apart from
Exoplanet detections, research work on exoplanet atmospheres are also conducted
through global collaborations and modelling of exoplanet atmospheres.
F3 Sub Area Galactic Astronomy (PRL)
Star Formation (PRL)
To explain the origin of massive stars (> 8 Msun) and young stellar clusters, a cloud-cloud
collision process has been proposed in recent years as an interesting alternative against
F3.1
the existing competing theories of massive star formation. Multi-wavelength studies are
being done from Radio to optical wavelengths to model and understand the physical
processes inside the star forming molecular clouds.
Studies on Asymptotic Giant Branch (AGB) stars (PRL)
Post-Asymptotic Giant Branch (PAGB) stars are rapidly evolving low and intermediate-
mass stars (1-8 Solar mass) in the transition phase from the mass-losing AGB stars to
the Planetary Nebulae (PNe) and are enshrouded by optically thick circumstellar matter
F3.2 that generally consists of molecular gas and dust. There exist a number of unresolved
issues as to the physical processes that govern the evolution at these late stages. The
chemistry of the circumstellar environment of these stars is highly dynamical due to the
enrichment of the surface layers by the convective dredge-up process; initially oxygen-
rich envelopes turning to carbon-rich.
305

--- Page 320 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Novae and Super Novae (PRL)
Cataclysmic events in the sky called Novae where a white dwarf accretes mass from a
Giant star in a binary system and when the total mass of the white dwarf exceeds the
Chandrashekar limit of 1.4 Solar Mass, hydrogen fusion flash happens on the surface of
the white dwarf. Such astrophysical are extensively observed from Mount Abu facility
using the PRL Near-IR camera and spectrograph and are studied in detail. Several
F3.3 interesting results were derived from these studies like detections of Dust, evolution
of atomic and molecular species to understand the evolution and time scale of such
astrophysical systems. NIR study of supernovae were initiated from early 2014 from
Mt. Abu in the near infrared wavelengths with the outburst of Supernova 2014J which
was the brightest and closest supernova Type 1a in the last four decades. Three bright
supernovae namely SN2014J, SN2016adj and SN2017eaw are extensively observed from
Mt. Abu facility both spectroscopically and photometrically and studied in detail.
X-ray Binaries and Pulsars (PRL)
Galactic X-ray binaries are among the brightest X-ray sources in the sky and are known
to be variable over time scales ranging from milliseconds to years. However, over the
intermediate time scale of few minutes to hours these sources, particularly the black
hole binaries, are not known to vary significantly. We employed an innovative method of
phased resolved spectroscopy with constrained system parameters which showed that,
it is the high mass accretion rate that is responsible for the observed ‘heartbeat’ type
variability. For this space-based X-ray telescopes are used like RXTE and XMM-Newton.
F3.4 Astrosat was used to measure the first polarization measurements in the CRAB pulsar in
the X-ray wavelengths. The Crab pulsar is a typical example of a young, rapidly spinning,
strongly magnetized neutron star that generates broadband electromagnetic radiation
by accelerating charged particles to near light speeds in its magnetosphere. Despite of
the spectroscopic and timing observations over decades, the mechanism of the emission
in pulsars remains poorly understood. Polarization analysis only within the off-pulse
region of the pulse profile showed that the emission has slightly higher polarization
with fraction of polarization 39.0 +/-10%. The high significance of polarization detection
enables to examine the dependence of polarization characteristics with pulse phase.
Structure of the Milky Way Galaxy (PRL)
We know that the Milky Way is a spiral Galaxy. However, the detailed structure of the
Milky Way is not yet clear since we are in the disk of the Galaxy. Dust in the Galactic plane
prevents a clear view of the distant regions of the Galaxy in the optical wavelengths.
F3.5 One can probe the structure of the Milky Way in a relatively better way by observing in
the infrared domain where the effects of the dust are much reduced. We make use of
large scale archival data from various optical and near infrared surveys to understand
the details of the structure of the Milky Way. We make use of various tracers such as the
Red Clump stars, the open clusters, Variable stars etc to study the structure of the distant
306

--- Page 321 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
regions of the Milky Way Galaxy. We have also initiated a program using PRL telescopes
to study the polarization properties in different lines of sight towards distant regions
of the Milky Way. This allows to understand the properties of the dust distribution in
various directions and also to understand the large scale material distribution in various
components of the Milky Way.
Exploring the atmospheric properties of most abundant stars (M dwarfs) in the
Milky Way galaxy (PRL)
M dwarfs, because of their small mass, small size, and low luminosity, are the ideal targets
for detecting and characterising rocky exoplanets planets. Also, a highly active and flaring
nature of M dwarfs may impact the atmosphere of orbiting planets and various biological
processes, thus impacting their potential habitability. The atmosphere of M dwarfs is
F3.6
dominated by complex molecules, which complicates the determination of their stellar
properties and chemical composition. This also introduces significant uncertainties in
their derived stellar parameters that propagate directly into the properties of orbiting
planets and affect the understanding of their interior and atmosphere. Using PRL
observing facilities (1.m and 2.5m telescopes) we are attempting to characterise the
atmospheric properties of M dwarfs.
F4 Sub Area Extra-Galactic Astronomy (PRL)
Active Galactic Nuclei (PRL)
In a long-term program, active galactic nuclei (AGN) have been studied to understand
their structure and energy processes which lead to huge energy output from a very
F4.1 compact region. Blazars, a subclass of AGN, are used as tool in this study. Optical
brightness and polarization variability studies enables us to make studies on the size
of the inner region from where the central engine that is the black hole is located and
indirectly infer the mass of the black hole.
Studies of High-redshift radio galaxies (PRL)
Deep radio surveys combined with auxiliary multi-wavelength surveys have helped the
discovery of a new population of distant and dusty galaxies. These galaxies termed as
Infrared-Faint Radio Sources (IFRSs) are detected at radio wavelengths but they are very
faint or undetected in the optical, IR wavelengths. Notably, the surface density of IFRSs
is found to be higher than that of radio galaxies. It was found that the IFRSs are high-
F4.2
redshift radio-loud active galactic nuclei at the redshifts z = 1.7 - 4.3, and a limit of z ≥
2.0 is placed on the IFRSs with no or faint optical counterparts. The discovery of this
new population of galaxies is crucial to understand the galaxy evolution in the early
Universe. Such observations are being carried out using the national facility of GMRT in
the radio wavelengths, and then look for their optical counterparts. They also help us to
understand the Universe at an epoch time of redshift of z > 2.0.
307

--- Page 322 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
F5 Sub Area Astrochemistry, Astrobiology (PRL)
Conditions commensurate to the ISM and Solar System icy bodies can be recreated in
the laboratory in order to understand the physico-chemical nature of molecules that
are largely frozen on to the cold ISM dust grains. A combination of closed cycle helium
cryostat and UltraHigh Vacuum (UHV) condition is used to bring temperatures down to
4 K and pressures of the order of 10-10 mbar. An optical window, mimics the dust grain in
these experiments. The nature of the optical windows depends on the wavelength that is
used to probe the molecular ices, for example, Zinc Selenide (ZnSe) and Lithium Fluoride
(LiF) is used for infraRed (IR) and Vacuum UltraViolet (VUV) probing / Spectroscopy,
respectively. To simulate shock processing either shock in the ISM or impact induced
shock, an 8-meter-long, high intensity shock tube is used. Samples processed in our
shock tube can reach temperatures up to ~ 10000 K. Various facilities are used in order
to mimic the condition experienced by astrochemical ices and astromaterials;
F5.1 (i) electron from a commercial electron gun,
(ii) for ion irradiation we use the ECR facilities,
(iii) for the precious VUV photons from Synchrotron beamlines and
(iv) the shock processing from a gas gun driven shock tube.
Thus, the astrochemical icy conditions are recreated and the physico-chemical nature of
astrochemical ices are probed by spectroscopy.
Proposals are invited in order to use these unique facilities mimicking (i) ISM cold dust
and solar system icy surface conditions and (ii) shock processing of dust in the ISM and
impact induced shock on planetary bodies.
These facilities can be used to understand the survivability of biomolecules (and even
microbes) under the extreme conditions that can be recreated in the laboratory, so
proposal related to astrobiology are also invited.
G Area Space Instrumentation (PRL)
G1 Sub Area Upper Atmosphere (Ionosphere/Thermosphere) (PRL)
Optical techniques (PRL)
1. MISE (Multiwavelength Imaging Spectrograph using Echelle Grating): MISE is a high
spectral resolution, large field-of-view (FOV; 140 degrees) instrument that is capable
of retrieving faint dayglow emissions at multiwavelengths (OI 557.7, 630.0, and
G1.1 777.4 nm) that are buried in the strong solar scattered background continuum.
2. NIRIS (Near Infrared Imaging Spectrograph): NIRIS is a large FOV (80 degrees) grating
spectrograph that yields spectra in the 823 - 894 nm region. NIRIS is used for deriving
nighttime Mesospheric OH and O emission intensities and their corresponding
2
temperatures.
308

--- Page 323 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
3. HiTIES (High Throughput Imaging Echelle Spectrograph: HiTIES yields nighttime
spectra at multiple wavelengths of thermospheric interest are OI 557.7nm and
OI 630.0nm.
4. CMAP (CCD-based Multi-wavelength Airglow Photometer): CMAP is a narrow
field of view photometer that provides nightglow emission intensities at multiple
wavelengths spanning mesosphere to thermosphere. The emissions being
Na 589.0nm, OI 557.7 nm, OI 630.0nm, OI 777.4 nm.
5. CPMT (CCD-based Photometer for Mesospheric Temperature): CCD-based
photometer for Mesospheric Temperatures (CPMT) is a 5-filter photometer for
focussed study of mesospheric temperatures corresponding to OH and O2 emissions.
6. PAIRS (PRL Airglow InfraRed Spectrograph): PAIRS yields nighttime spectra at
multiple wavelengths.
7. ADIC (Automated Digital Imaging Cameras) have been developed to carry out
simultaneous photography from 4 locations of rocket vapour cloud released from
Thumba, India.
8. UVIS (Ultraviolet Imaging Spectrograph): UVIS was designed to obtain emission
intensities at MgII 280.0 nm and OI 297.2 nm wavelength which originate in the
height range of 85-110 km. It has a FOV of 80 deg with spectral resolution 0.2 nm at
297.2 nm.
9. Narrow Spectral Band, Narrow Field-of-view airglow photometer: This instrument is
capable of enhancing the signal to noise ratio (SNR) of nighttime airglow emissions
in the wavelengths of OI 630.0 nm and 777.4 nm by limiting the spectral bandwidth
and brings out the small variations in the airglow intensity buried in the background
by limiting the field of view. This philosophy is now being adopted for space-borne
measurements on-board Indian satellites.
Radio Techniques (PRL)
1. DPS (Digisonde Portable Sounder): For ionospheric studies we use a digisonde
wherein radio waves of different frequencies (0.5 - 20 MHz) are sent upwards
and their return echo is monitored which yields information on the height of the
ionosphere and the plasma densities therein.
2. GPS/GNSS/IRNSS receiver based Total Electron Content (TEC) measurements:
Three receivers measure TEC over this region using GPS, GNSS and IRNSS satellite
G1.2
transmissions at multiple frequencies (L1, L5, S band etc.) and are operational in the
lab round-the-clock.
3. Langmuir Probe: The lab is also engaged in the design and fabrication of Langmuir
probes for space plasma measurements on-board rocket and satellites. The speciality
of this class Langmuir Probe is its capability to capture small changes in the electron
density perturbations enabling the group to address various plasma irregularity
processes in the ionosphere.
309

--- Page 324 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
G2 Sub Area Earth’s Lower/Middle Atmosphere (PRL)
1. Aerosol Chemical Speciation Monitor (ACSM)
2. Ceilometer
3. Disdrometer
4. Dual wavelength dual Polarization LIDAR
5. Flame Ionization Detector (FID)
6. Gas Chromatographs
7. Greenhouse Gas Analysers
8. Hygroscopic Tandem Differential Mobility Analyzer (HTDMA)
9. LIDAR
10. Multiwavelength Radiometer
11. Single Particle Soot Photometer (SP-2)
12. Surface Trace Gas Analysers
13. Dual wavelength dual polarization Lidar
14. Multi wavelength sun photometer
15. Pyranometer
16. Pyrgeometer
G2.1
17. Pyrheliometer
18. Proton Transfer Reaction- Time of Flight- Mass Spectrometry (PTR-TOF-MS)- The
PTR-TOF-MS technique is used for the measurements of different VOC compounds
present in atmosphere. The time of flight (TOF) mass spectrometer separates the
ions according to their mass to charge ratio (m/z). The PTR-TOF-MS provides the
mass spectra of many VOCs in a short time (<1 s). PTR-TOF is used for measurements
of trace gases (ppt-ppb levels) in air and provides a high time resolution data. This is
India’s first Proton Transfer Reaction Time of Flight Mass Spectrometer (PTR-TOF-MS)
system.
19. Thermal Desorption-Gas Chromatography-Flame Ionization Detector/Mass
Spectrometer Detector (TD-GC-FID/MSD)- The GC-FID/MSD system which is
coupled with a Thermal Desorption-gas is used for the analysis of a class of VOCs
known as non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHCs) for which PTR-TOF-MS based
measurement is not possible.
20. VOC Analyzers-The VOC analyzer provides online gas chromatograph for the
analysis and monitoring of trace amounts of C2-C12 hydrocarbons. VOC analyzers
are portable and have been used in field experiments at remote places. This setup
has been operated during ship-borne campaigns to study the remote atmosphere.
310

--- Page 325 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
G3 Sub Area Planetary Exploration (PRL)
Atmosphere experiments (PRL)
1. Charge particle measurements
2. Ion and Neutral Composition (Mass Spectrometer)
3. Vertical distribution of Electron Density
4. Vertical distribution of Species
G3.1
5. Planetary Lightning experiment: To understand lightning on other planets like Venus
and Mars. Research work can involve modelling, data analysis and instrumentation
related to cloud charging, EM wave propagation in ionosphere, plasma waves,
ground based experiment.
6. Radio Occultation Experiment to observe profiles of atmospheric parameters like
temperature, density etc.
G4 Sub Area Planetary Atmosphere (PRL)
Surface measurements (Elemental composition) experiments (PRL)
1. X ray Spectrometer.
2. Laser induced breakdown spectros copy.
3. Surface & Subsurface Thermophysical properties of planets.
G4.1
4. Dust and surface charging – The objective is to study lunar surface charging,
dusty plasma, laboratory experiments, dust levitation, dust impact, escape study,
instrumentation.
5. Microwave probing of surface and subsurface.
6. Planetary Geophysical Studies – Experiments and Numerical Modeling.
G5 Sub Area Astronomy (PRL)
Instrumentation for ground-based and space-based facilities (PRL)
1. Visible and IR imaging with precision photometry, polarimetry, low resolution
spectroscopy in IR and optical wavelength and high resolution optical fibre based
spectroscopy for ground based 1.2 m and upcoming 2.5 m telescope.
G5.1 2. X-ray instrumentation for space-based facilities (Imaging and Spectra and
Polarization)
3. Gamma Ray Spectrometer for space-borne platforms.
4. Active optics for upcoming 2.5 m telescope.
5. Detector arrays for Visible, IR and X-ray regions.
311

--- Page 326 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
G6 Sub Area Solar Studies (PRL)
Instrumentation for future solar and heliospheric missions (PRL)
Aditya-L1 mission is India’s first dedicated science mission for the study of the Sun
which has been placed at the first Lagrangian point (L1) of the Sun-Earth System. ASPEX
payload on-board Aditya-L1 developed by PRL is dedicated for the investigation of
the characteristics of solar wind ions (H+, He++ and few other ions) from low to high
energies with directional information. ASPEX also records the arrival of interplanetary
G6.1
transient events (e.g. ICME) at the L1 point which are flagged by the enhancements in ion
counts in 3 channels beyond a pre-defined threshold. Success of the ASPEX payload and
observations paves the way for development of future solar and heliospheric missions.
Complementing the observations made by Aditya-L1 mission with other measurements
from radio and optical telescopes at USO/PRL, holds potential for solar physics research
and also for space weather forecasting applications.
Optical instrumentation for Solar observations (PRL)
A 50 cm telescope for solar observations. Specialised back-end instruments, namely
G6.2 a Narrow–band Imager to record simultaneous images of the photosphere and
chromosphere, a Polarimeter to measure the magnetic fields in sunspots and an Adaptive
Optics system for image stabilisation and to achieve diffraction-limited performance.
Active and adaptive optics for diffraction limited imaging (PRL)
To achieve high-resolution observations with ground-based telescopes, Udaipur solar
observatory (USO) is engaged in the research and development of active and adaptive
optics systems for compensation of atmospheric turbulence in real-time. A low-
order adaptive optics system is already developed; to achieve the maximum possible
G6.3
resolution with existing telescopes at USO, the development of a high-order AO system
is in progress. In this regard, different mechanisms/techniques are being explored for
wavefront sensing and wavefront reconstruction. Besides, off-line image restoration
techniques such as blind-deconvolution and speckle masking techniques are being
explored.
Radio instrumentation for solar transient studies (PRL)
Transient solar phenomena are accompanied by energy releases in the radio wavelengths
predominantly arising from the solar atmosphere (chromosphere to corona). They
G6.4 provide valuable information on solar energetics, plasma and magneto-hydrodynamics
and space weather. This motivates the requirement for synoptic monitoring of the Sun
at multiple frequencies with instruments that can provide high angular, spectral, and
temporal resolutions.
312

--- Page 327 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
However, such monitoring is done only at a few places worldwide in narrow-band
widths in different frequency ranges. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop
solar-dedicated radio instrumentation to fill this gap. To complement India’s maiden
space-based solar mission, Aditya-L1, developing space-based radio instruments is also
the need of the hour.
G7 Sub Area Moon (PRL/ SAC)
Chemical, mineralogical and morphological studies (PRL)
We tend to use various proxies like chemical, mineralogical, morphological,
chronological etc. studies, typically in combination, to understand the processes
G7.1 involved in shaping (physical and chemical differentiation of) the terrestrial planets
throughout geologic time. Various approaches, e.g., orbital, in - situ experiments and
sample (including meteorite)studies in labs, should be considered comprehensively to
work on the fundamental science problems (or part of them) for any planetary missions.
Lunar surface sciences (SAC)
The main research themes for research includes Lunar Surface composition, Lunar
morphology, Hyper spectral data analysis for Lunar Surface, Thermal Remote Sensing of
the Moon, Spectral characterization of Lunar analogues, Lunar surface dating and lunar
volcanism. Multi-frequency microwave SAR studies for H O / Ice detection on Lunar
2
surface.
Moon
• Characterizing the mineralogical diversity of the lunar crust and understanding the
nature of lunar water cycle:
a) Constraining lunar crustal composition through high-resolution hyperspectral
data of the Moon obtained from recent, ongoing and upcoming lunar missions.
G7.2
b) Comparative compositional studies of lunar near and far side mare and their
implications in thermal and chemical evolution of the Moon.
c) Lunar hydration mapping of polar regions (molecular water/hydroxyl ions) and
characterizing their nature using hyperspectral data.
• Investigation of lunar volatiles at polar regions: Development of new techniques and
radar-based models for detection and quantitative estimation of water-ice deposits
inside the permanently shadowed regions at lunar poles.
• Lunar morphological studies:
a) Morphometric and rheological study of lunar domes.
b) Analysis of spatial and statistical distribution of boulders from high-resolution
optical datasets.
313

--- Page 328 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• Characterization of physical properties of lunar regolith:
a) Inversion of global regolith thickness and physical properties of the lunar near
surface using multi-wavelength radar studies.
b) Development of physical models for dielectric constant and surface roughness
estimation over lunar surface.
c) Development of empirical and semi-empirical radio-wave scattering models to
address scattering from surface and subsurface heterogeneities.
• Understanding the lunar tectonics through modelling and analysis of lobate scarps of
the Moon.
• VNIR and thermal remote sensing simulation Studies:
a) Visible-Near Infrared (VNIR) reflectance studies using physics-based models and
studying the effects of optical properties, viewing geometry, grain size, etc.
b) Modelling and estimation of thermal conduction in lunar regolith.
Lunar surface science (Impact Catering, Volcanism, Space weathering) (PRL)
The main research themes includes Lunar Morphology, Surface composition via Hyper
G7.3 spectral data analysis, Thermal Remote Sensing of the Moon, Lunar surface dating using
crater chronology, Spectral characterization of Lunar analogues, and Multi-frequency
microwave SAR studies for H O / Ice detection.
2
Estimation of water abundance on the Moon (PRL)
A combined approach of study using remote sensing observations from Chandrayaan
missions and modelling is required to investigate variations and abundances of hydration
G7.4
on the lunar surface. Such an approach of looking at global scale variations using the
multi wave length data of Chandrayaan missions will help to understand associated
transport processes and their origin.
G8 Sub Area Mars/Venus (PRL/SAC)
Morphology, mineralogy, chronology and topography studies (PRL)
This topic research aims to analyze the morphology of glacial and fluvial landforms on
Mars to infer the potential role of water and ice in their formation, examine the role of
topography to in the consequences of photographic control on the emplacement of
G8.1 the land forms, infer the presence of primary and secondary minerals in the deposits to
examine role of aqueous processes, and to establish chronological history of land forms
to deduce their period of formation in the past geological history of Mars. Morphological
studies from major geological processes will provide major pathways to explore these
rocky planetary bodies.
314

--- Page 329 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
Studies on Martian analogue (PRL)
To study the potential planetary analogues sites on the Earth to understand the intricacies
of planetary processes such as the connection between impact -fluvial processes on
Earth and Mars, impact fragmentation on Earth and Moon, gully formation on Earth
and Mars, debris covered glaciations on Earth and Mars. The reflect copy measurement
from the laboratory based instruments will provide more in sight sin understanding
the mineralogical composition. Boulder falls on the Earth, Moon and Mars provide an
opportunity to do comparable planetology.
The basaltic crusts comprising the surfaces of the Mars of ten resemble the terrestrial
basalts and many volcanic and sediment logical features appear similar to be existed on
Mars. Therefore, planetary analogues studies are essential to understand the geologic
context and validate the orbital data for ongoing and future space missions to Mars.
To study the potential planetary analogues sites on the Earth to understand the intricacies
of planetary processes such as the connection between impact -fluvial processes on
Earth and Mars, impact fragmentation on Earth and Moon, gully formation on Earth
and Mars, debris covered glaciations on Earth and Mars. The reflect copy measurement
from the laboratory based instruments will provide more in sight sin understanding
the mineralogical composition. Boulder falls on the Earth, Moon and Mars provide an
opportunity to do comparable planetology.
G8.2
The basaltic crusts comprising the surfaces of the Mars of ten resemble the terrestrial
basalts and many volcanic and sediment logical features appear similar to be existed on
Mars. Therefore, planetary analogues studies are essential to understand the geologic
context and validate the orbital data for ongoing and future space missions to Mars.
Mars (SAC)
• Martian geological studies: Mineralogical and morphological studies of volcanic
provinces, and monitoring of Polar Ice caps on Mars using optical and hyperspectral
remote sensing data.
• Modelling studies of Martian landforms and their implications.
• Modelling and simulation studies for Martian subsurface geology.
Venus (SAC)
• Venus geological studies using microwave remote sensing data:
a) Scattering properties of Venusian geologic features, i.e., volcanic landforms and
highland regions using ground-based and orbital-based radar data and development
of radar scattering models.
b) Characterization of large-scale Venusian volcano-tectonic structures by integrating
observations from Magellan SAR, Radiometer and Altimeter observations.
315

--- Page 330 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• Fast radiative transfer model development for retrieval and assimilation applications.
• Retrieval of Venus surface temperature and emissivity parameters.
Planetary Atmospheres
• Understanding the atmospheric circulation dynamics of the Venusian atmosphere:
Retrieval of atmospheric winds from UV channels.
• Synergistic measurements from instruments aboard upcoming Venus mission of ISRO
are targeted to probe unambiguous detection of Venus lightning in a more decisive
manner.
• Measurements of Venus cloud top brightness temperature statistics at different
locations, emission angles, and times, and generation of cloud top temperature maps.
Planetary Analogues
• Spectral characterization of Venus analogues under simulated Venusian surface
temperature conditions with respect to the near-infrared filters proposed in the
Venus Surface Emissivity and Atmospheric Mapping (VSEAM) instrument on-board
Venus Orbiter Mission.
• Characterizing terrestrial Venusian analogues using polarimetric radar based and
field based Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) studies.
• Wide spectral range characterization of Moon and Mars analogues from different
geological settings across India.
H Area Laboratory Study of Astro Materials (PRL)
H1 Sub Area Meteorites from Asteroids (PRL)
Early solar system processes and time scales (PRL)
Solar system formation scenarios have been debated for along time now. Various
processes that took place 4.56B yrs ago are recorded in some of the early forming
solids preserved in few of the primitive meteorites/asteroids. Study of these important
meteorites and samples from sample return mission provide clues in to origin and
evolution of the Solar system.
H1.1
Asteroids (SAC)
• Investigation of Visible and Near Infrared spectra of Near-Earth Asteroids obtained
from spacecraft-based observations.
• Polarimetric radar studies of Near-Earth Asteroids to characterize their near-surface
physical properties.
H2 Sub Area Moon and Mars Meteorites (PRL)
Composition, evolution and chronology (PRL)
H2.1
Planetary bodies formed at different locations of the protoplanetary disk and are a
316

--- Page 331 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
tell- tale of the original composition of the protoplanetary disk along with information on
how & when the bodies formed. Stable and radioactive isotopes from the various bodies
(mars, moon, asteroids, comets) provide the compositional as well as chronological
information of the different phases of planetary evolution.
I Area Study of terrestrial analogues of Moon and Mars (PRL)
To understand surface properties and aqueous processes on Mars
I1 Sub Area
(PRL)
Geochemical, Spectroscopic, X-ray & astro-biological studies of the terrestrial analogues
I1.1
of Moon and Mars.
Planetary Environmental Simulation and Experimental Studies on
I2 Sub Area
Analogues (PRL)
J Area Payloads for upcoming planetary missions (PRL)
Experiments based on EM radiation, particle irradiation and nuclear reactions can be
J1.1 devised to understand surface and subsurface composition and the equipment can be
realized in a miniaturized space qualified form.
Radio Occultation Experiment (PRL)
J1.2 This is to observe profiles of neutral density, temperature, ion densities in the atmospheres
of Mars and Venus for future ISRO missions.
J1.3 Development of In-situ technologies for planetary surface and sub-surface science.
Experiments related to hypervelocity dust impact, micrometeorite detection,
modelling and data analysis, study of space debris (PRL)
Payloads are being developed to dust Interplanetary Dust Particles. The Inter planetary
Dust Particles (IDPs) or micro meteorites or spaced ebrisare originated from asteroid belt
and the resources. The IDP shave velocity greater than 1km / s (i.e., hypervelocity ) and
J1.4
may enter planet. They are some times trapped between two planet sand creatures once
dustring. The properties of the dust at planet may be understood using a hypervelocity
dust, impact experiment using an instrument on future planetary missions/ modelling.
The project can cover such aspects related to the interplanetary /planetary dust
detection / modelling.
Langmuir Probe (PRL)
The knowledge of the local plasma environment and its variability with time and space is
essential in determining the plasma dynamics and transport properties within the Martian
ionosphere. In this context, the Langmuir probe is probably the simplest technique to
J1.5 measure the plasma configuration in terms of particle density, temperature, electric
potential, and particle distribution within a plasma environment–moreover, tweaking
with an additional probe to the instrument could also measure the local electric fields.
The instrument primarily works on the principle of measuring currents under varying
applied voltages and subsequent variations in V-I characteristics.
317

--- Page 332 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Miniaturised Neutral Ion Mass Spectrometer (PRL)
J1.6
To observe ions in the exosphere of Mars and Venus in ISRO’s future missions.
Energetic Ion Spectrometer (PRL)
J1.7 Energetic Ion spectrometer (EIS) is the instrument aimed at measuring the energetic
particles in the energy range of 100keV to 100MeV in the space/planetary environment.
Lightning Experiment (PRL)
J1.8 Payload to detect and study lightning on Venus is being developed for future ISRO
mission.
K Area Geosciences (PRL)
K1 Sub Area Biogeochemistry (PRL)
Biological N fixation in oxygen minimum zones (OMZs) of the Indian Ocean (PRL)
2
Nitrogen and oxygen are important elements for life and their cycling in ocean is
interconnected. The distribution of oxygen in the ocean interior is controlled by an
intimate interplay of physics and biology. Oxygen is transported by circulation and
mixing processes into the ocean interior from near-surface waters, where it is produced
by photosynthesis and exchanged with the atmosphere.
Oxygen consumption by bacterial respiration of organic matter occurs throughout the
K1.1
ocean but most intense in oxygen minimum zones (OMZs). Recent observations suggest
that the biological N fixation (major source of bioavailable nitrogen in open ocean)
2
occurs in such OMZs. Both the supply and consumption of oxygen and bioavailable
nitrogen are sensitive to physical parameters in ways that are not fully understood.
Research carried out at PRL has led to substantial improvement in our understanding
of the various transport and biogeochemical processes responsible for regulating
N fixation in the Indian Ocean.
2
Carbon: Nitrogen: Phosphorous stoichiometry in the Indian Ocean (PRL)
Availability of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) determine the strength of the ocean’s
carbon (C) uptake, and variation in the N:P ratio in inorganic nutrients is key to
phytoplankton growth. A similarity between C:N:P ratios in the plankton and deep-
water inorganic nutrients was established in the last century. However, recent studies
have suggested a variation in nutrients N:P ratio as well as cell species dependent
phytoplankton C:N:P ratio. At present, our understanding of the (environmental) factors
K1.2
governing C:N:P stoichiometry remains poor.
The northern Indian ocean due to its geographic setting and monsoonal wind forcing
provides a natural biogeochemical laboratory to explore the effect of environmental
and physical factors on C:N:P stoichiometry. Research carried out at PRL under the
ISRO-GBP program has improved our understanding to some extent on the C:N:P ratio in
bulk organic matter pools and nutrients. However, knowledge at the cellular level is still
fragmentary, yet critical to identify the variation in the ratio.
318

--- Page 333 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
Trace element biogeochemistry in ocean (PRL)
PRL played a lead role and initiated studies on trace elements and their isotopes for the
Indian Ocean region under the aegis of International GEOTRCAES programme. As part of
the Indian GEOTRACES and related programs, high-resolution sampling was performed
in the Arabian Sea, the Bay of Bengal, and the Indian Ocean along with some major
estuaries and rivers of India to understand biogeochemical cycling and distribution of
K1.3 trace elements.
Trace elements in ocean are essential micronutrients and their abundances influence
overall productivity of the ecosystem. Distribution of trace elements and their
isotopes in oceans also provide information on physical and chemical processes such
as water mass movement, redox condition, and sources and sinks of these elements.
PRL intends to continue these studies in the northern Indian Ocean as this region is not
well constrained vis-à-vis their geochemical cycling.
Nitrogen and carbon cycling in a tropical estuary and adjacent coastal region (PRL)
Estuaries and adjacent coastal regions are vulnerable ecosystems due to increased
nutrient loading from anthropogenic activities. Excess nutrients enter the system as
organic and inorganic N and P compounds through rivers and the atmosphere, and
threaten coastal ecosystems. Anthropogenic inputs cause many estuarine-coastal
systems to shift drastically from N limitation to an N surplus leading to eutrophication, a
major threat to most of the estuaries and coastal waters around the world.
K1.4
At present, our knowledge of N and C cycling, particularly N uptake dynamics and its
dependence on N and P distribution in tropical estuaries and the adjacent coastal waters
remains rudimentary. Information about the rates of transformation of N and C in such
systems is needed to develop mitigation strategies to restore and save the estuarine-
coastal coupled systems from eutrophication. The research carried out in PRL in recent
years at different estuarine-coastal coupled systems of India has added significantly to
this knowledge.
Carbon and nitrogen fluxes in river systems of India(PRL)
Human activities are drastically altering water and material flows in river systems across
India. These anthropogenic perturbations have rarely been linked to the carbon (C)
fluxes of Indian rivers that may account for considerable percentage of the global fluxes.
In this regard, a conceptual framework for assessing human impacts on Indian river
C and N fluxes is needed.
K1.5
Lower reaches and tributaries of rivers, such as the Ganges, which drains highly populated
urban centers, tend to exhibit higher levels of organic C and the partial pressure of CO
2
(pCO ) than less impacted upstream reaches. Also, proper quantification of impacts of
2
river impoundment on CO outgassing from the rivers of India is still lacking. Within this
2
context, PRL has initiated a program to study C and N cycling in rivers of India, where
movement of these important elements throughout the river continuum will be studied.
319

--- Page 334 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Nitrogen and carbon cycling in a terrestrial ecosystems of India (PRL)
In past few decades, human activities have altered many terrestrial ecosystems by
increasing human derived N inputs which has caused shift in natural cycling of elements.
This has eventually affected C fluxes and its storage capacity of soils, providing positive
feedbacks to climate change. As N acts as an important growth limiting nutrient for plants
and the biogeochemical cycles of N and C are coupled, it is important to understand N
cycling in forest ecosystems in order to develop proper forest management practices.
Production of NH4+ in soils can be studied by determining either net rates which
K1.6 shows the amount of nutrient remaining after consumption; or gross rates which allows
quantification of total mineralized N.
So far, many studies have been conducted on net rates of mineralization as it is considered
to be the principal step which determines plant productivity but few studies exists
vis-à-vis gross mineralization rates worldwide. For the first time in the southeastern
Asian region, research carried at PRL using isotope dilution technqiue to quantify rates
of gross mineralization and nitrification in the Himalayas, Western Ghats, Rann of Kutch,
and Kerala has added significantly to our knowledge regarding natural pathways of
nutrient production and consumption in different ecosystems of India.
K2 Sub Area Paleoclimate (PRL)
Coral as a Proxy for Sea Surface Properties (PRL)
Coral are organisms growing in shallow marine conditions and are sensitive to sea
surface temperature (SST). They form annual bands and record properties of sea
surface conditions at very high-resolution and could prove to be a good calibration
for paleoclimatic studies. Based on corals from the Andaman region, reservoir age
K2.1 correction was provided as applicable to radiocarbon dates of marine samples. Paired
measurements of Sr/Ca and stable isotopes in corals from Andaman region have shown
that these can be effectively used for calibration of SST and show signatures of Indian
summer monsoon. Coral radiocarbon measurements for the period 1949-2013 have
yielded air-sea exchange rates of CO for the Indian Ocean and shows relation with wind
2
speed and alkalinity.
Paleoclimatic Reconstructions from Marine Sediments of the Indian Ocean (PRL)
PRL has been at the forefront of research in paleoclimate reconstruction. Towards this,
several marine cores from the northern Indian Ocean have been investigated. Based on
studies of a sediment core from the western Arabian Sea, it was observed that variations
K2.2 in the Somali upwelling has relationship with southwest monsoon rainfall. Evidence of
poor bottom water ventilation during LGM in the equatorial Indian Ocean was found from
studies in the equatorial Indian Ocean. Recently, signatures of global climatic events and
forcing factors for the last two millennia from the active mudflats of Saurashtra has been
found. Similarly, cores from other regions of the Indian Ocean are under investigation.
320

--- Page 335 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
Past climate using speleothems (PRL)
Past monsoon conditions can be assessed from variations in oxygen isotope ratios and
trace element compositionsin cave carbonate deposits (stalagmites). Exploring new
caves covering different geographical sites and monitoring variability in isotopic and
geochemical compositions of modern cave seepage water canadd to a very limited
K2.3 data set available on past monsoon from terrestrial records. Also, trapped water in the
carbonate matrix represents the past water. Its isotopic composition can be utilized to
interpret past hydrological conditions. Work is being carried out on the development of
vacuum technique to extract trapped water from the carbonate matrix along with dating
technique utilizing U-Th decay series, which is presently unavailable in India. Overall,
PRL has contributed significantly to paleomonsoon reconstruction using speleothems.
Paleoglaciation records from the central and western Himalaya (PRL)
The mountain glaciers are active geomorphic agents to shape the landforms and are
responsible for producing some of the most spectacular landscapes on the surface of
the earth. Timing and amplitude of paleoglaciations represent important cornerstones
K2.4 of terrestrial paleoclimatic research as glaciers are arguably the most sensitive recorders
of climate changes as they respond to the combined effect of snow fall and temperature.
To reconstruct the history of glaciations, large scale field mapping of glacial deposits
(moraines) along with geochronology using different techniques like optical chronology
and cosmogenic radionuclides dating is being carried out at PRL.
K3 Sub Area Atmospheric chemistry(PRL)
Non-conventional stable isotopes in atmospheric carbon cycle research (PRL)
Precise quantifications of the sources and sinks of CO in the atmosphere are very
2
important for modelling future climate. The existing studies, mainly based on the
conventional stable isotope ratios and CO concentration are not enough to precisely
2
quantify the CO budget because of their complex interactions with various reservoirs
2
and contribution from multiple components with overlapping range of isotopic ratios.
Clumped and triple oxygen isotopes in CO are two recently developed isotopic proxies
2
and are found to be applicable to address many of the carbon cycle issues.
K3.1 Clumped isotopes in CO are molecules in which more than one isotopes are replaced
2
by their rare counterparts and are mostly used as a proxy of CO formation/exchange
2
temperature. The triple oxygen isotopes or 17O excess in CO is the excess abundance
2
of 17O compared to that expected from mass dependent fractionation processes and is
mostly acquired from the interaction of CO with ozone in the stratosphere.
2
These two isotope proxies basically measure anomalies and are free from many
terrestrial complex processes. With modern mass spectrometry techniques, very precise
measurements of these isotope ratios are possible and hence can be used to estimate the
contribution of CO from different sources and estimate the gross primary productivity,
2
321

--- Page 336 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
the total CO assimilated by plants. Geosciences division of PRL recently started
2
developing techniques for measuring these nonconventional isotope ratios, along with
the existing conventional isotope measurement facilities to precisely constrain the
atmospheric carbon budget in India.
Research on Aerosol Chemistry and Characteristics (PRL)
Aerosols are known to affect the Earth’s climate (radiation budget, hydrological cycle),
aquatic ecosystem (biogeochemistry of oceans and lakes), and air quality (visibility
and human health). After emission and/or formation, aerosols react with other species
during atmospheric transport that further lead to transformations in their chemical
and physical properties. These processes not only affect their optical and hygroscopic
properties but also the bioavailability of nutrients present in aerosols.
However, the characteristics and composition of aerosols remains poorly understood.
Aerosol research at PRL focusses on understanding the physicochemical characteristics
K3.2
of ambient aerosols over different regions of India, and how they relate to atmospheric
chemistry, clouds, climate, ecosystem, air quality, and human health.
Chemical and isotopic compositions of aerosols as well as their characteristics using
state-of-the-art online and offline measurements techniques over different parts of
India and surrounding oceans are being studied. In addition, focus is specifically on
studying emerging research areas such as secondary organic aerosols, brown carbon
aerosols, and oxidative potential of aerosols. Such studies are not only important in
understanding and assessing the effects of aerosols on air quality and climate, but also
in validating/modifying regional and global climate models.
K4 Sub Area Earth Surface Processes (PRL)
Application of non-traditional stable isotopes to study Earth system processes
(PRL)
It is important to understand the origin and temporal evolution of the Earth and its various
systems. Recently, non-traditional stable isotopes have been used as a new tool to study
various earth system processes. Some of the important aspects that can be explored
using non-traditional stable isotopic systems are redox evolution of Earth’s oceans and
atmosphere (Fe, Mo and U isotopes), reconstruction of silicate weathering history and
K4.1
understanding the weathering regime (Li isotopes), reconstruction of seawater paleo-
pH (B isotopes), paleo-volcanism (Hg isotopes), biomineralization of foraminiferal tests
(Ca isotopes).
The initial step to study these problems in Earth Sciences by suitable non-traditional
isotopic proxies involve intensive field work for collection of appropriate samples
(e.g., recent marine sediments and black shales for understanding recent and past
ocean redox using Mo isotopes, river water and suspended sediments to understand
322

--- Page 337 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
weathering regime using Li isotopes) followed by sample preparation in laboratory for
extraction and purification of element(s) of interest, their mass spectrometric analyses,
and modelling of data.
PRL has been involved in such studies and wishes to continue using emerging techniques
as they are indispensable for understanding the Earth as a system.
Catastrophic events across the Indian geological records (PRL)
At PRL, we aim to understand ‘catastrophic events’ such as mass extinction events across
major boundaries (Permian-Triassic -250 Million Years ago, Cretaceous-Palaeocene –
65 Million year etc.) from the Indian geological records. Also, works on impact craters
K4.2
(Lonar, Dhala, and Ramgarh etc.) are underway, where the major objectives are to
understand the processes responsible for such global events using the geochemical
anomalies and chronological information along with proxies to pin point the factors
responsible for such type of events.
Present and past extreme events (PRL)
The extreme precipitation events, like of June 2013 in Uttarakhand, create flash floods
in monsoon dominated Central Himalayan valleys. The fluvial deposits in the associated
river basins are being studied at PRL to understand the past processes from the central
K4.3 to western Himalayas during the late Quaternary period. Generally, sediment bulking in
the monsoon dominated Himalayan rivers is caused due to (i) landslide dammed lake out
bursting, (ii) the glacial lake out bursting, and (iii) recession of valley glacier deglaciation.
In this program, we intend to quantify the spatial and temporal changes in the sediment
provenance in order to ascertain the role of climate and tectonics in valley-fill deposits.
Accelerator Mass Spectrometer: Application of Cosmogenic Radionuclides in
Geosciences (PRL)
The Accelerator Mass Spectrometer Facility at PRL has been installed to measure
14C, 10Be and 26Al. Radiocarbon (14C) has been extensively used in application of earth,
ocean, planetary and atmospheric sciences. Several samples from archaeological sites
have been dated using 14C. Radiocarbon has been used as a tracer to understand various
ocean processes. One of the major oceanic climatic process which governs the Earth’s
K4.4
climate is ocean circulation. Based on radiocarbon dates of planktonic and benthic
foraminifera in marine sediments, ventilation rates of the Indian Ocean have been
established for the last 50 kyr.
Radiocarbon dates of groundwater provide estimate of climatic conditions at the time of
recharge. Meteoric 10Be has been used as chronological tool for dating marine sediments
up to 10 million years. In-situ10Be is being used for deriving the exposure age of glacier
and gives understanding of glacier retreat or advance rates.
323

--- Page 338 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
K5 Sub Area Earth Surface Landforms and Processes (PRL)
Fluvial depositional environment and facies (PRL)
Rivers are one of the dominant agents of landscape modification as the flowing waters
are continually eroding, transporting, and depositing sediments (Fluvial Processes) in the
course of time. Fluvial geomorphology deals with the form and function of streams and
the interaction between streams and the landscape around them. It depends on fluvial
dynamics, sediment load, slope / slope stability, vegetation, surface runoff, climate,
tectonics, etc. An architectural element may be a component of a depositional system,
characterized by a distinctive facies assemblage, internal geometry, external form etc.
K5.1
Stream morphology is dynamic and constantly changing in both space and time.
River based flooding is among one of the most frequent and widespread natural
hazards of our country. Apart from studying palaeo-climates, studying fluvial deposits
are important in economic aspects as they are characterized by good porosity and
permeability, thus constitute excellent aquifers, placer deposits, coal, oil and gas
reservoirs are hosted in fluvial units. The understanding of system dynamics will help us
for planning for climate change. Thus, proposal is invited to understand fluvial processes
and palaeoclimate changes.
Coastal configuration changes and interaction with sea level and tectonics (PRL)
The long coastline of India makes it a suitable area to study the past surface, internal
and climatic processes that shaped the present day coastline. Understanding the past
response to various forcing are important to understand and model the present coastal
dynamics in the view of ongoing threat of global warming, climate, sea-level changing
scenarios. In view of this, it is important to understand the process taking place along
K5.2 the coast in past and present.
The study of such processes will enable us to design the strategies for probable future
issues and provide us the parameters which should be monitored via ground or satellite
based observations. Sedimentary archives along the coast provide excellent proxies to
study such processes in past. Such archives are need to be studied in order to develop
understanding of coastal sedimentary processes. The proposals are thus invited for
coastal sediment studies.
K6 Sub Area Hydrology (PRL)
Application of Oxygen and Hydrogen Isotopes to Understand Hydrological
Processes (PRL)
There are complex hydrological processes which cannot be discerned by measuring
K6.1
volumes and fluxes of water across hydrological boundaries. Such processes are, for
example, variation in vapour source for rainfall, evaporation from falling raindrop,
continental recycling of water, surface water - groundwater interaction and exchange.
324

--- Page 339 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
These processes can be discerned by monitoring oxygen and hydrogen isotopic
composition of water in different hydrological reservoirs such as groundwater, river
water, rainwater, oceanwater and atmospheric water vapour. Spatio-temporal variation
in isotopic composition of water in these hydrological reservoirs in conjunction with
various geohydrological and hydrometeorological parameters can provide new insights
in the hydrological processes.
A Stable Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometer laboratory set up under the National
Programme on Isotope Fingerprinting of Waters of India (IWIN National Programme) is
leading this long-term programme of isotopically characterizing water sources of India
with a view to obtain new insights into hydrological processes.
Some of the important scientific results from this research pertains to interaction
between rain and vapour, relative contribution of vapour from the Arabian Sea and the
Bay of Bengal, extent of evaporation from falling raindrops, identification of regions in
which groundwaters do not seem to be recharged by freshwater during an annual cycle
of groundwater hydrology.
L Area Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics (PRL)
L1 Sub Area Laboratory Instrumentations (PRL)
• Development of electron and ion imaging spectrometer
• Coincidence momentum imaging spectrometer, reaction microscope
• Development of ions source/Ion gun
• Laser produced plasma: Plume dynamics and plasma spectroscopy
L1.1 • Laser Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy: Fundamentals and applications
• Development of Magnetic Bottle electron Spectrometer
• Development of large area position sensitive detectors for charged particles imaging
• Development of Piezo pulse valve (0 to 1 KHz rep rate) and plunger-based pulse valve
(0 to 1KHz rep rate) for supersonic atomic/molecular beam generation
L2 Sub Area Spectroscopy (PRL)
Ultrafast Science and Technology (PRL)
The electron dynamics in atomic and molecular system is in attosecond (10-18 s) and
the nuclear dynamics is ranging from picosecond (10-12 s) to femtosecond (10-15 s) time
scale. Science at this time scale is named as ultrafast science. At atomic level, most of
L2.1
dynamical processes are in this time scale. Modern experimental techniques are needed
to understand the ultrafast science.
• Femtosecond stimulated Raman spectroscopy
• Femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy
325

--- Page 340 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
• Femtosecond-Laser Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy: nanosecond-LIBS,
Nanoparticles Enhanced LIBS, Femtosecond-LIBS
• Femtosecond micromachining
Development of XUV/EUV light source using femtosecond laser (PRL)
• Development of XUV/EUV source based on Higher Harmonic Generation method
• Higher Harmonic Generation from gas, solid, liquid and plasma
L2.2 • XUV-IR pump probe experiment
• Photoionization of atoms and molecules using XUV/X-ray
• Photoelectron Spectroscopy
• Intense TW femtolaser light interaction with matter: Extreme photonics
Attosecond science and technology (PRL)
• Attosecond Streaking
L2.3 • Attosecond transient absorption spectroscopy
• Attosecond physics at nanometric tips
• Attosecond Angle-Resolved Photoelectron Spectroscopy
Atomic collisions (PRL)
L2.4 • Electron and ion impact processes in molecules
• Study of atomic and molecular clusters
Gas phase astrochemistry (PRL)
L2.5 • Gas-phase Chemistry in the Interstellar Medium
• Chiral molecules in space: study of light induced processes in chiral molecules)
L3 Sub Area Ultrafast laser application (PRL)
Femtosecond Laser Precision Engineering (PRL)
• Micro and nano structure development using femtosecond laser
L3.1 • Diamond, silicon, and ceramic cutting using ultrafast laser
• Micromilling using ultrafast laser
• High Harmonic generation based EUV lithography
Optical fiber and application (PRL)
• Fabrication of optical fiber
L3.2
• Development of Hollow Core Fiber for femtosecond pulse compression
• Fibre optics-based tools development for medical, defence, and aerospace
Ultrafast science and technology (PRL)
L3.3 • Attosecond physics phenomena at nanometric tips
• Femtosecond filamentation and plasma chemistry
326

--- Page 341 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
Technology development in laser and photonics (PRL)
• Development of Femtosecond oscillator, Femtosecond amplifier, Femto-optics
(grating, mirrors, polarizer, etc.)
• Development of XUV/EUV optical components
L3.4
• Development of Nd: YAG laser, Yb: YAG, and Tm: YAG lasers
• Development of femtosecond fiber laser
• Development of LIDAR (Light Detection and Ranging)
• Development of photon/electron detector, and power meter
M Area Emerging Areas In Theoretical Physics (PRL)
Ameliorating the Theoretical Frameworks of Fundamental Physics
M1 Sub Area
(PRL)
Scrutinising the validity of the standard models of particle physics and cosmology
and their extensions by computing various observables and comparing them with
the experimental data (PRL)
Some of the experimental evidence in the areas of particle physics and cosmology indicate
M1.1
that the known and established theoretical frameworks in these areas are not complete
and adequate. Quantifying these inadequacies, modifying theoretical frameworks and
testing their viabilities constitute a core of the theoretical physics programme emerging
in the next couple of decades.
Probing physics beyond Standard Model in Neutrino Experiments (PRL)
Exploring signatures of physics beyond the Standard Model of particle physics in
experiments to detect neutrinos from Astrophysical and laboratory sources constitutes a
M1.2 very important current research area presenting many new opportunities. Next generation
neutrino experiments offer particular advantages over existing experiments, including
large volumes and high intensity beams. These detectors also open up the possibilities of
detecting low mass dark matter candidates, new neutrino interactions etc.
Probing nature of neutrinos in rare processes (PRL)
Neutrinos being particles with zero charge can be their own antiparticles i.e can have
Majorana nature. This violates lepton number and allows the rare process of neutrino less
double beta decay. There are many experiments which are searching for these processes.
Neutrino less double beta decay can help in probing the neutrino mass along with beta
M1.3
decay experiments and cosmological constraints. One can also look for predictions of
physics beyond the Standard Model in such processes.
In addition an analogous lepton number violating process can take place in colliders
and complementarity of these with neutrinoless double beta decay experiments can
constrain the parameters of the beyond Standard Model physics.
327

--- Page 342 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Charge-Parity (CP) violation in the neutrino sector and origin of matter-antimatter
asymmetry (PRL)
Several neutrino oscillation experiments are in the process of determining the amount
M1.4
of CP violation in the lepton sector and it is expected to be measured within the next
10 years. Whether the observed amount is enough to explain dominance of matter seen in
our universe is a question of fundamental interest.
Testing grand unification through Proton decay (PRL)
Hypothetical theories which unify the fundamental interactions predict unstable protons.
M1.5 Several ongoing experiments are searching for the proton decay and they are expected to
give decisive results on some of the simplest frameworks of unification. Activities in this
area are therefore going to increase in the coming years.
Precision physics at the LHC (PRL)
Due to the tremendous improvement of the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) experimental
results, theoretical predictions of the Standard Model and beyond the Standard model
processes need to be extremely accurate. This necessitates inclusion of higher order terms
M1.6
in the perturbative calculations and that, in practice, invokes non-trivial complexity due
to the increasing number of loops and legs. To compute such theoretical estimations and
to build machinery in order to attain such precise results are of utmost importance, as the
present and future success of the LHC crucially depends on these theoretical inputs.
Search for the theory of unconventional superconductivity (PRL)
Several superconducting materials have been discovered in the last couple of years which
M1.7
do not follow the known theory of superconductivity. It is one of the active areas where a
radically new theoretical framework might be needed to describe the observations.
Topological Quantum Matter, Superconducting Junctions, and their Functionalities
(PRL)
Superconducting interfaces, in combination with non-superconducting quantum matter,
M1.8 have been found as excellent platforms to host emergent phases, which are not possible to
find in bulk superconductors. Exploring new quantum matter with topological properties
and forming their interfaces with superconductors to find new functionalities are of
fundamental interest and extremely needed for future applications.
Physics of the quantum Hall effect and topological order (PRL)
The quantum Hall effect occurs in two-dimensional electron systems in the presence
M1.9 of a perpendicular magnetic field. Integer and fractional quantum Hall states exhibit
many fascinating phenomena, such as quasiparticles with fractional charge and anyonic
statistics, as well as nontrivial topological order. Ongoing experiments on novel quantum
328

--- Page 343 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
materials continue to yield surprising discoveries which are challenging to explain within
the conventional framework of theoretical condensed matter physics.
One example is the recent observations of quantum Hall physics even in the absence of
magnetic fields. Understanding the dynamics that promotes these phases, determining
the nature of the ground states, characterising the low-lying excitations and proposing
concrete experiments to test the predictions presents a rich set of directions and questions
for theoretical research. The potential applications of such phases in the field of quantum
technologies provides an extra impetus to this line of research work.
M2 Sub Area Fundamental Physics using Space-borne Experiments (PRL)
Searching for Dark Matter through Balloon/Satellite/Space-station based
Detectors for multi-messenger insight (PRL)
The existence of a non-luminous and non-baryonic form of matter, popularly known as
dark matter (DM), is already well established and measured at different length scales of the
Universe by observations like galaxy rotation curves, gravitational lensing, bullet clusters,
etc. Besides that, the current relic density of DM has been measured quite precisely in
satellite-borne experiments like Planck and WMAP. A dominant part of the matter in the
present Universe is in the form of DM. However, the nature and production mechanism of
the same remains a mystery and still an open question.
This proposed research wishes to look into the properties and interactions of possible
M2.1 candidates of DM, be it weakly or feebly interacting fundamental particles originated
through particle interactions in the early Universe. It is essential to look into such models
and study the possible signature of such new physics in the present and upcoming
experiments that comprise direct, indirect and collider searches of dark matter. Such a
study also requires an extensive overlap within the broad areas of astrophysics, cosmology,
and particle physics. Through different ground-based and space-borne experiments, direct
and indirect searches of Dark Matter can reveal helpful information. With multi-messenger
signatures from the multi-wavelength capabilities of X-ray, gamma-ray and ultraviolet
telescopes, the neutrino detector and the detection of gravitational waves, along with
the constraints from direct detection and collider production, provide us with a robust
framework for a deeper insight.
M3 Sub Area Data Science and Machine Learning (PRL)
Modern Machine Learning (ML) frameworks aim to utilise different deep neural networks
over large data sets to find hidden features in data and solve diverse problems. Although
its impact is now overwhelmingly evident in our everyday life, from a simple Google
M3.1 search to the autonomous car, it is still in an evolving phase with fundamental research
(especially in India). In the last few years, such techniques have demonstrated their
exceptional capability in theoretical and experimental research. For instance, remarkable
progress is achieved in developing different algorithms in classification, identification,
329

--- Page 344 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
characterisation and estimation, various applications in experimental measurements in
theoretical physics and experiments.
With these in mind, it is high time to prioritise and invest in capacity building for this
critical component of future capability. Deep neural networks are incredibly versatile and
applicable in diverse areas of research. It is envisaged that the techniques developed in
this project would generate the opportunity and zeal to explore them further in different
fields, including space physics.
Developing Algorithms towards Explainability with Deep Machine Learning(PRL)
The true power of deep learning comes from “learning from data,” more often than
not, a deep neural network’s performance improves as we feed in more data from a
more extensive statistical sampling. Lately, the importance of explainability in machine
learning has been realised in research and development and in all other scopes of
applications, too. This effort is worth making the “black box” of complex ML models
M3.2
more transparent by understanding which features or inputs are most influential in the
model’s output, how those features interact to produce a specific result, or why the model
made a particular prediction in a given instance. Explainability promotes accountability
by allowing us to identify and correct errors or biases in ML models, thus building trust
in why a model made a particular decision. Understanding the deeper perspective can
also help identify weaknesses, refine features, and improve overall performance.
Applying Deep Machine Learning Techniques in the Areas of Fundamental and
Space Physics (PRL)
With advanced implementation, the application of machine learning (ML) techniques
is revolutionising almost all scientific disciplines. Typically, research domains are
characterised by vast datasets, complex phenomena, and the need for sophisticated
analysis, making them ideal candidates for Machine Learning applications, giving the
M3.3
unique opportunity to explore complex phenomena in nature, and it is now widely
used in different streams of research. In this project, we test and develop advanced
deep machine learning applications to improve the detection of new physics searches,
especially in theoretical physics, and try to develop physics-intuitive neural networks
that follow specific requirements. Our group at PRL has been actively working in this
field for the last several years.
N Area Weather and Climate (NARL/SAC/IIRS/NESAC/PRL)
N1 Sub Area Radiation, Aerosols, and Trace Gases (NARL/IIRS/NRSC/PRL)
Modelling of Atmospheric Chemistry and Dynamics (PRL)
Atmospheric chemistry and dynamics play key roles in impacting the air quality and climate.
In this regard, modelling over varying scales (local, regional, and global) and complexities
N1.1
(box, chemical transport, general circulation) are being performed at PRL supported by
Vikram HPC. In particular, the focus is on the modelling of atmospheric trace gases and
aerosols over the South Asian region. A variety of natural and man-made emissions, together
330

--- Page 345 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
with improved representation of complex topography and detailed chemistry are
included in complex earth system models. The simulations assist in interpreting
observations and in predicting effects of possible scenarios. Feedbacks between
atmospheric chemistry and regional climate, also through biogenic processes, are to be
studied.
Research Areas in the field of Space Sciences (SAC)
Multi-wavelength astronomy is the major thrust area of research with special emphasis
on terahertz (THz) or sub mm astronomy. THz astronomy has potential to answer some
of the most profound questions related to the cold components of the Universe on scales
of galaxies, molecular clouds, star and planets. Multi-wavelength observations along
with theoretical models and simulations are used to understand various astronomical
phenomenon. Apart from these studies research related to exoplanets and solar physics
are also quite important themes being explored at SAC.
Important research areas and challenges involved in ongoing program is as follows.
• Understanding temporal evolution of elemental abundances in solar flares X-ray
observations through theoretical modelling and satellite observations.
• Sub-mm astronomy can answer some of the most profound questions related to the
N1.2 cold components of the Universe on scales of galaxies, molecular clouds, star and
planets. Precursor studies using multi-wavelength studies using observations from
global sub-mm telescopes.
• Radiative transfer simulations and modelling for Terahertz site characterization
studies.
• Research studies related to transit light curves and atmospheric characterization of
exoplanets.
• Experiments and modelling of various physical, chemical and biological phenomena
in microgravity conditions.
• Magnetohydrodynamic simulations and modelling studies for protoplanetary disc
and filament formation in ISM.
• Ionospheric properties of Earth with modelling and satellite observations for
understanding the space weather.
O Area Astronomy & Astrophysics (URSC)
O1 Sub Area Compact Object Astrophysics (URSC)
Magneto-Hydrodynamic Effects on Accretion Disks in Strong Gravity (URSC)
Magneto-hydrodynamic (MHD) simulations are crucial for understanding the behavior of
O1.1 accretion disks, especially in environments with intense gravitational fields, such as those
around black holes or neutron stars. MHD combines magnetism and fluid dynamics to
model the dynamics of electrically conductive fluids in the presence of magnetic fields.
331

--- Page 346 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
These simulations are vital for exploring how magnetic fields influence the structure and
evolution of accretion disks, impacting phenomena such as jets/outflows and energy
release.
Aim of the proposal is to address how strong gravitational fields affect the MHD
dynamics of accretion disks. Specifically, it is important to investigate how the interplay
between strong gravity and magnetic fields influences the disk’s stability, turbulence,
and the generation of Quasi-periodic Oscillations (QPOs). Understanding these effects is
essential for interpreting observational data from Galactic and extra-Galactic compact
objects.
O2 Sub Area Galactic Astronomy (URSC)
Impact of AGN and Star-formation Feedback on Evolution of Galaxies (URSC)
The study of local galaxies is crucial for understanding the formation and evolution of
galaxies on a broader scale. In star-forming galaxies, we can examine the conditions that
lead to the birth of new stars, including the role of gas dynamics, feedback from supernovae,
and the impact of magnetic fields. Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) in local galaxies provides
a unique perspective on the impact of super-massive black holes on their host galaxies.
Gas dynamics around AGN are critical for understanding how these black holes influence
their environment.
O2.1
The study of AGN involves examining the movement of gas in the accretion disks, the
outflows driven by jets and radiation, and how these processes affect star formation
and galactic evolution. This includes analyzing how AGN feedback mechanisms, such as
the kinetic and thermal energy released by jets, can regulate gas inflows and outflows,
thereby influencing the rate of star formation and the growth of the galaxy. By studying
these local systems in detail using space based observations in synergy with ground
based observations, we need to develop models and test theories about feedback that
is fundamental to galaxy evolution.
P Area Space Instrumentation (URSC)
P1 Sub Area UV/EUV Instrumentation (URSC)
Development of an UV Polarimeter (URSC)
UV polarimetry is a crucial tool in astrophysics, providing insights into the magnetic fields,
dust properties, and scattering mechanisms in various cosmic environments. By capturing
medium and star-forming areas, which are crucial for our understanding of cosmic
evolution. However, its success heavily depends on the capabilities of the instruments
P1.1
used. UV polarimeters require exceptionally sensitive detectors (preferably in the range of
150 nm – 300 nm) to capture the faint signals along with an optimized optical design
with minimal number of optical elements to minimize the loss of signal. The design of
these instruments must also minimize instrumental polarization, which can distort the
results, requiring meticulous calibration and engineering precision.
332

--- Page 347 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
Development of a Detector System for EUV Imaging/Spectroscopy of Cosmic
Sources (URSC)
EUV (Extreme Ultraviolet) imaging and spectroscopy are essential tools in astrophysics,
offering unique insights into the high-energy processes occurring in a variety of cosmic
environments, such as the solar corona, supernova remnants, and active galactic nuclei.
These wavelengths can reveal information about hot plasmas, magnetic field structures,
and energetic events that are not accessible at other wavelengths. However, the
P1.2
detectors required for EUV observations of Galactic/Extra-galactic sources (excluding
the Sun) present significant challenges.
EUV photons are scarce and require highly sensitive detectors with high spatial and
spectral resolution to capture meaningful data. The materials used in this must be
carefully selected for their ability to work with weaker fluxes that are more challenging
to measure than those in other wavelengths. Together with the high sensitivity, solutions
to maintain long-term performance with minimal degradation should be explored.
P2 Sub Area Detector Technology (URSC)
Study of Superconducting Materials for Future Low Temperature Radiation
Detector Development (URSC)
The future in space science detector technology is towards fabrication of multi-
wavelength and large array superconductor detector technology. Study of specific
superconductor materials and its characterization, which requires sub-Kelvin cooling,
to minimize the noise in the measurement of photons is the prime objective of the
proposed research area.
Microwave Kinetic Inductance Detector (MKID) is one such detector technology which
has been studied in first decade of 21st century and is still a subject of intense interest for
multi-wavelength and noise-free detector technology. MKID can detect a large part of
P2.1
the electromagnetic spectrum starting from X-rays to Millimeter as well as it is capable
of particle detection. This particular benefit makes MKID as one of the most powerful
detectors in the modern era of Astronomy.
Work envisaged:
• Study of specific superconductor materials catering for detection of large part of the
electromagnetic spectrum.
• Modeling and simulation of bulk material for characterization of critical temperature
and sensitivity to detection of electromagnetic radiation.
• Design of patterned detector to act as a resonator and characterization of responsivity
for change in material kinetic inductance with incidence energy.
333

--- Page 348 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Development of X-ray CMOS Detector for X-ray Imaging and Spectroscopy
Application (URSC)
CMOS detector technology for optical imaging is being used very widely nowadays. The
CMOS detector made with Silicon can be used for soft X-ray detection and spectroscopy
application. The major technological requirement for soft X-ray application is the device
should have Back- illuminated architecture and higher depletion depth for higher
efficiency in soft X-ray band.
Preliminary specifications for the X-ray CMOS sensor are
 1K x 1K sensor for soft X-ray Imager with ~40 μm pixel, may be a High-Rho device.
 Low read noise [for spectral resolution; energy dispersive].
P2.2
 Depletion depth > 35 μm [for higher QE at medium energy X-ray ~8 keV].
 Full well ~ 10000 [sufficient for X-ray photon counting mode operation].
 Back illuminated preferred [for having higher QE at low energy X-rays < 1000 eV].
 Digital output; LVDS SPI with 12/ 14 bits ADC.
Work envisaged:
 Modeling and pixel design of the sensor for the suitable fab-lab having Rad-Hard
high-Rho fabrication process.
 Design of full array sensor along with Analog to digital converter and digital interface;
LVDS-SPI.
 Fabrication of proto devices and preliminary characterization of the sensor.
Development of Readout Electronics for Microwave Kinetic Inductance Detector
(MKID) (URSC)
MKIDs work on the principle that incident photons change the surface impedance
of a superconductor through the kinetic inductance effect. The kinetic inductance
effect occurs because energy can be stored in the super-current of a superconductor.
Reversing the direction of the super-current requires extracting the kinetic energy stored
in the super-current, which yields an extra inductance. This change can be accurately
P2.3 measured by placing this superconducting inductor in a lithographed resonator. A
microwave probe signal is tuned to the resonant frequency of the resonator, and any
photons which are absorbed in the inductor will imprint their signature as changes in
phase and amplitude of the probe signal.
Work Envisaged:
1. Read-out electronics technology to be designed to excite the resonator and detect
the change in phase on absorption of electromagnetic radiation.
2. Finally, the design to be extended for large array device.
334

--- Page 349 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
P3 Sub Area Exoplanet Imaging (URSC)
Direct Imaging of Exoplanets (URSC)
The field of exoplanet science is one of the most rapidly emerging and important areas
for answering key questions about planet formation and finding other habitable worlds.
More than 5,000 exoplanets have been discovered, with the majority of discoveries
made using indirect methods. Direct imaging and characterization of rocky exoplanets
is one of the key scientific goals of current and upcoming large telescopes. To directly
image planets around a star, it is necessary first to resolve the planet from the star and
then suppress the starlight to extremely high contrast levels so that the planets become
visible.
For an Earth-like planet around a Sun-like star, this requires a contrast of 10 billion at a
small angular separation of 0.1 arc-seconds. Such high contrast is possible only from
P3.1 space, where atmospheric turbulence is absent. This is usually achieved with the help of a
stellar coronagraph or an interferometer. Ground-based telescopes have demonstrated
this technology in detecting larger planets at high orbital distances, but it has never
been demonstrated for habitable zone planets, which require an optimized space-based
telescope. NASA’s Nancy Grace Roman Telescope plans to demonstrate the coronagraph
and active wave front control technology in space by 2027.
The European mission LIFE (Large Interferometer for Exoplanets), utilizing stellar
interferometry, plans to characterize Earth-like planets. Developing this technology
for a space-based platform is of paramount importance toward the long-term vision
of exoplanet exploration. For demonstrating the technology on ground, it is required
to demonstrate the hardware in the space environment conditions, preferably in the
visible / near infrared region of the spectrum.
Q Area Emerging Areas in Theoretical Physics (URSC)
Q1 Sub Area Strong Gravity (URSC)
Imaging of Black Holes (URSC)
A black hole’s shadow, credit to the phenomenal image of the BH by the EHT collaboration,
represents the projection of its unstable-photon region onto the observer’s sky. While
significant progress has been made in black hole imaging, numerous intriguing
Q1.1
opportunities for further study remain.
Compact objects are surrounded in an intricate environments that include accreting
plasma and electromagnetic fields, both of which significantly affect their imaging
properties. While the impact of non-magnetized plasma on the shadow of a static,
335

--- Page 350 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
spherically symmetric black hole (BH) is well-understood and can be calculated with an
unstable photon sphere, the scenario becomes more complex in stationary axisymmetric
space times. Despite this, there is limited research on general plasma models and rotating
BHs beyond the Kerr solution. This gap underscores the need for a detailed investigation
into how these factors influence black hole imaging. This project aims to address
this need by exploring the effects of various plasma models and magnetic fields on
the imaging of rotating black holes, advancing our understanding of their observational
signatures in the electromagnetic band (radio to X-rays). Upon modeling of
magnetized relativistic accreting plasma around central sources, polarimetric properties
of the compact emission can be measured, providing insights into black hole spin
information.
R Area Space weather (VSSC)
R1 Sub Area Space Weather Modeling and Forecasting (VSSC)
Forecasting Solar Flares, Coronal Mass Ejections, and their geo-effectiveness using
Physics Informed AI/ML (VSSC)
Space weather forecasting using AI/ML involves the development of machine learning/
deep learning (ML/DL) algorithms to analyze large datasets of background Solar wind
parameters, solar flares and Coronal Mass Ejections (CMEs) to forecast when these
events will reach Earth and what will be its geo-effectiveness with sufficient lead time.
Though flares and CMEs are understood as triggered by the common physical process
of magnetic reconnection, their association is challenging to predict. Once the CMEs
have erupted from the Sun, we also need to predict their magnetic signatures near Earth
(Sun-Earth Lagrange-1 point).
In this project, instead of using a purely ML-based approach, we expect to develop
R1.1
Physics-Informed ML/DL models that aim to predict the space weather conditions. For
instance, the Helioseismic Magnetic Imager (HMI) dataset can be used to identify active
regions, and using this as a knowledge-informed deep learning, a solar flare forecast
model can be developed. Furthermore, the output of this data-driven model can be
used to classify whether a solar flare will be accompanied by a CME using deep learning
algorithms. This information, along with other datasets, needs to be used to forecast the
geo-effectiveness of the CME in terms of the magnetic field magnitude and direction at
the Sun-Earth L1 point.
Through this project, we expect to have validated and tested software for predicting
Solar flares (M class or greater) associated CMEs, and their geo-effectiveness in terms of
IMF at L1.
336

--- Page 351 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
S Area Satellite Remote Sensing of Earth and Planetary Atmosphere (VSSC)
S1 Sub Area Satellite based retrieval of aerosol properties (VSSC)
Development of an algorithm for satellite-based retrieval of aerosol properties
over land through the synergy of radiative transfer computations and surrogate
modelling (VSSC)
Satellite based retrieval of aerosol properties is essential to unveil the large spatial
and temporal heterogeneity in aerosol distribution and characteristics, which is
vital for the accurate estimation of aerosol impacts. However, retrieval of aerosol
properties from satellite-based measurements is challenging due to multiple factors,
including the intricacies in delineating the aerosol signal from satellite measured
radiance which includes contribution of both atmosphere and underlying surface.
This becomes more challenging over land regions where the surface reflectance
shows large heterogeny. However, retrieval of aerosol properties over land is inevitable
as most of the anthropogenic aerosol sources are located in land regions. Satellite
based polarisation measurements enable better delineation of surface contribution
S1.1
and thereby better retrieval of aerosol properties over land. There are different types
of sensors and algorithms which uses different techniques for the retrieval of aerosol
properties over land. Look up table approach, based onradiative transfer computations,
is one of the methods, which has been widely used for the global retrieval of aerosol
properties.
However, these algorithms are computationally too intense. In view of these, the
proposed research aims at the development of inversion algorithms by combining the
potential of radiative transfer computations and surrogate modelling. Major objectives
of the proposal are (i) development of an algorithm using radiative transfer computations
and surrogate modelling, for the retrieval of aerosol properties over land and ocean from
satellite-basedmeasurements of total and polarised radiation, (ii) implementation of the
algorithm on satellite-based measurements and retrieval of aerosol parameters and
(iii) validation of retrieved aerosol parameters using ground-based measurements.
S2 Sub Area Satellite based retrieval of green-house/trace gases (VSSC)
Development of inversion algorithms for satellite-based retrieval of green-house/
trace gases using radiative transfer computations and surrogate modelling
approaches (VSSC)
S2.1 Rapid increase in concentration of green-house gases in the atmosphere and its adverse
effects in climate and air-quality are of major concern. Trapping of more radiation in
the Earth-atmosphere system due to the enhancement in green-house gases alters the
global energy balance and hence affects the climate. In addition, increase in pollutant
337

--- Page 352 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
gases due to various anthropogenic activities deteriorates the air quality in many
of the major cities and affects human health. Hence, continuous measurements of
green-house and trace gas concentrations is inevitable to address the global climate
change and monitor air quality.
Satellite-based measurements of spectral radiance at suitable wavelengths can be used
for the retrieval of these gases on a global scale. In view of these, the major objectives
of the proposed research activity are (i) development of inversion algorithms for the
retrieval of green-house/trace gases (CO , CH , H O, O and CO) concentration using
2 4 2 3
line-by-line radiative transfer computations and surrogate modelling approaches,
(ii)implementation of the algorithm on existing satellite measurements and retrieval
of gas concentrations and (iii) validation and Inter-comparison of the retrieved gas
concentrations using ground based and satellite-based measurements. Radiative
transfer simulations need to be carried out to compute top of the atmosphere spectral
radiance, for different combinations of atmospheric, surface and sun-satellite geometry
conditions. These simulated radiance data forms the trading data set for the model.
T Area Design and Development of Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer (LEOS)
MEMS based Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer (LEOS)
Development of lightweight, low-power mass spectrometers can be a very useful space
science instrument for earth observation and planetary missions. Mass spectrometry (MS)
is an advanced scientific tool to detect and quantify atomic or molecular samples. This
has been the instrument of choice for space exploration to analyze the composition of
gaseous samples right from upper atmospheric studies using balloon flight to deep space
planetary missions. It is also used in extensive ground applications such as environmental
monitoring, forensic detection, electronics, and biomedical applications, etc. There is a
lot of interest and demand in developing high-performance mass spectrometer with
low weight, form factor, and power consumption. One of the enabling technologies to
T1.1 achieve this goal is silicon micromachining, also called Micro Electro Mechanical Systems
(MEMS) technology. In such missions, mass spectrometers can be used to perform the
chemical analysis of atmospheric composition or evolved gases from rock samples.
Besides small size and low weight, common requirements include low cost, low power
consumption, field portability, reliability, and redundancy for long period operations.
The prime objective is to develop a miniature Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer (QMS)
for space applications with a mass range of up to 300 amu and a resolution of 1 amu,
comprising MEMS-based quadrupole mass filter at its core. Quadrupole Mass Filter (QMF)
employs RF and DC electric fields applied across quadrupole electrodes for temporal
separation of ions. The novelty proposed is the usage of MEMS technology to physically
shrink the mass filter element without compromising much on its scientific capabilities.
338

--- Page 353 ---
SPACE SCIENCES
U Area Development of CNT based nonwoven fabric sheet (LEOS)
Synthesis and study on carbon nanotube-based nonwoven fabric sheet for dust
repellent space applications (LEOS)
In the lunar/Martian environment, dust accumulates on opto-electro-mechanical
surfaces and causes friction and wear. It can adhere to surfaces, causing coating
contamination, false instrument readings, clogging, thermal and optical control
problems, abrasion, equipment failure, and loss of traction. In recent times, research
carried out on the CNT-based nonwoven fabric sheet is shown to reduce friction and
wear on surfaces of equipment. Such a sheet can become a promising dust repellent
U1.1
tool for space equipment and instruments aboard landers/rovers that are destined to
work in lunar and Martian environments. The prime objectives of proposal interest are:
a) fabrication of a carbon nanotube-based nonwoven fabric sheet by a suitable process
(floating catalyst CVD); b) study the electrical conductivity, and flame resistance; and
c) address problems regarding lunar dust, namely, dust adhesion and abrasion and
surface electric fields, and dust transport using, lunar regolith simulant and potential
use of CNT sheet as a surface textile material to withstand extreme lunar/Martian dust
conditions.
339

--- Page 354 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
340

--- Page 355 ---
SPACE POLICY &
MANAGEMENT
SPACE POLICY & MANAGEMENT
A Area Space Policy and Economy (ISRO-HQ)
A1 Sub Area Evolving Space Governance and Global Policy (ISRO-HQ)
Development of National Space Policies for Emerging Spacefaring Nations
(ISRO-HQ)
As more nations step into outer space activities, the need for national space policies
A1.1 becomes urgent. This research will explore model frameworks for emerging space actors,
balancing international obligations with national interests. Develop a case studies, policy
drafts, and strategic roadmaps tailored to the capacities and ambitions of developing
countries. Analyzing nations like non-space firing nations at the core.
Space Traffic Management: Creating a Unified Global Policy (ISRO-HQ)
Space is congested. Satellites, debris, and mega-constellations create collision risks.
A comprehensive space traffic management (STM) policy remains elusive. This research
A1.2
will assess existing initiatives (e.g., U.S. STM proposals, UN COPUOS work), identify
regulatory gaps, and propose a scalable international STM framework adaptable for
future traffic scenarios, including AI-managed spacecraft.
The Politics of Lunar Governance: Evaluating Current Proposals and Future Needs
(ISRO-HQ)
With Artemis Accords, China-Russia Lunar Initiatives, and others pushing lunar
A1.3 agendas, governance of the Moon is becoming critical. This research will analyze
competing visions for lunar governance, focusing on resource rights, security zones,
environmental preservation, and legal precedents under the Outer Space Treaty. The
research will develop model legal-political agreements for future lunar activities.
International Responsibility for AI-Operated Satellites (ISRO-HQ)
AI is increasingly managing satellite constellations and autonomous missions. But when
A1.4 AI-driven decisions cause accidents or treaty violations, who is responsible? This research
explores liability attribution, treaty interpretations, and policy recommendations for
AI-managed space systems under the Outer Space Treaty and Liability Convention.
A2 Sub Area Space Economy (ISRO-HQ)
Direct and Indirect impacts of space sector in India (ISRO-HQ)
India’s space sector has undergone remarkable growth, evolving from its early
beginnings with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) to becoming a
A2.1 global player in space technology and exploration. With ambitious missions like
Chandrayaan, Mangalyaan, and Gaganyaan, India has demonstrated its technological
prowess while contributing to scientific advancement. Beyond its achievements in
space, the sector plays a crucial role in driving economic growth and societal progress.
341

--- Page 356 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
This research study aims to analyze the direct and indirect impacts of the Indian space
sector on the nation’s economy and society, exploring its multidimensional influence.
Key Focus Areas of the Study:
1.Economic Contributions
a. Assessing the space sector’s role in GDP growth, employment generation, and
industrial expansion.
b. Evaluating the rise of private space startups and their contribution to innovation
and investment.
2.Technological Advancements & Spin-off Benefits
a. Examining how space research has led to advancements in telecommunications,
agriculture, weather forecasting, and disaster management.
b. Analyzing the commercialization of space-derived technologies in other industries.
3.Societal Impact & Inclusive Development
a. Investigating how satellite-based services (e.g., telemedicine, education, and rural
connectivity) have improved quality of life.
b. Studying the role of space technology in bridging urban-rural disparities.
4.Global Competitiveness & Strategic Influence
a. Understanding India’s position in the global space economy and its potential for
international collaborations.
b. Assessing how space diplomacy strengthens India’s geopolitical standing.
5.Policy & Future Prospects
a. Reviewing government initiatives like space sector reforms, privatization, and
foreign direct investment (FDI) policies.
b. Identifying challenges and opportunities for sustainable growth in the space
industry.
This study will provide valuable insights for policymakers, industry stakeholders, and
researchers, highlighting how India’s space ambitions translate into broader economic
and societal benefits. By understanding these impacts, India can further harness its
space potential for inclusive and sustainable development.
B Area Space Insurance (ISRO-HQ)
B1 Sub Area Innovative Space Risk and Insurance Models (ISRO-HQ)
New Risk Models for Mega-Constellations: Insurance Challenges and Solutions
(ISRO-HQ)
Satellite mega-constellations like Starlink and Kuiper change the risk landscape. Collisions,
B1.1 cyber-attacks, and orbital debris risks multiply with thousands of interconnected
satellites. This research investigates how insurance companies and governments must
innovate underwriting practices, loss models, and liability assumptions to keep up with
these large-scale deployments.
342

--- Page 357 ---
SPACE POLICY &
MANAGEMENT
Developing Insurance Models for Space Tourism (ISRO-HQ)
The rise of companies like Blue Origin, Virgin Galactic, and SpaceX signals the birth
of space tourism. However, insuring non-astronauts in a highly risky environment
B1.2
demands new approaches. This research will study the current legal liability regimes,
health coverage requirements, and possibilities for customized space tourist insurance
models, aiming to frame an industry-ready insurance product proposal.
Space Debris and Third-Party Liability: Insurance Gaps and Innovations (ISRO-HQ)
No clear private sector insurance fully covers the risks posed by space debris-induced
B1.3 damages. This research will review the current gaps in space debris liability insurance,
assess the need for compulsory third-party insurance regimes, and propose novel hybrid
models combining public and private insurance mechanisms.
Building an International Space Risk Pool: Combining Space Insurance, Law, and
Policy (ISRO-HQ)
Given the enormous financial and human risks in space activities, an international space
B1.4 risk pool could offer a collective insurance model against catastrophic failures. This
research will draw from terrestrial models (like terrorism insurance pools) and design
a cooperative global insurance framework involving public and private stakeholders,
embedded within space policy and legal systems.
C Area Management (SAC)
Research Proposal Evaluations for Sponsored Research with (SAC)
A number of sponsored research avenues are currently undertaken under SAC such
as RESPOND, Space Technology Cell (STC), Space Technology-Incubation Cell (STI-C),
RAC-S (Regional academic Centres of Space), to name a few. Several project proposals in
various subjects related to Space applications are received from academia across India
under these avenues.
In order to screen-in proposals , especially with regard to expertise and publications of
the proposer (PI: Principle investigator), it is proposed to design an automatic screen-in
C1.1
procedure, combining AI/ML techniques to identify and match the PI/CO-PIs expertise
and bibliometric information (publication, grant funding received, patents etc) with that
of the expertise required in project proposals by SAC.
Suitable analytics such as cluster analysis techniques may be employed to identify
subject experts and match it with expertise required for SAC’s sponsored research
activities. Offline/Intranet use of this facility may also be employed to gather details
about previous projects, support in the monitoring and will help to identify duplication,
gaps and additional opportunities in future research activities.
343

--- Page 358 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Experimental Social Research studies including Randomised Control trials to
execute Impact assessment studies of ISRO’s educational outreach activities
(ISRO-HQ/SAC)
As a leading space agency in the country, SAC/ISRO has actively promoted STEAM
(Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics) education, facilitated research
collaborations, and contributed to the dissemination of advanced space technologies.
SAC’s initiatives, including student outreach programs, satellite-based educational
services, and academic partnerships, have directly influenced students, researchers, and
educational institutions.
With India’s growing emphasis on space science, innovation, and technological
advancements, it is essential to evaluate ISRO’s role in shaping the country’s scientific
C1.2 progress and the broader implications of its educational and research-driven initiatives.
It is proposed to conduct social experimental studies such as Randomised Control Trials
(RCTs), Cohort studies or Case Control studies or other types of pre and post taest studies
to understand the ways in which SAC/ISRO’s educational outreach programmes such as
GujSAC BHAvi VaIgnank KAryakram (GujSAC BHAVIKA), YUVIKA, UNNATI, has supported
to pursue students to select careers in STEM subjects.
Such studies can support in providing data-driven insights in understanding
long-term engagement and knowledge retention of the participants, identify best
practices and areas for improvement in program structure and delivery, quantify
the return on investment (ROI) from educational outreach programs and support in
identifying high-impact strategies to improving the reach and effectiveness of future
initiatives.
Analysing Public Sentiment on ISRO’s Major Space Missions through Social Media
Analysis (ISRO-HQ/SAC)
The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has garnered significant global attention
through its ambitious space missions, including Chandrayaan, Mangalyaan, Aditya-L1,
and the forthcoming Gaganyaan project. Public perception of these missions is
instrumental in shaping both national and international support, influencing funding
allocations, and informing policy decisions. In the contemporary digital era, social media
C1.3
platforms serve as critical spaces for public discourse, facilitating real-time expression of
sentiment, engagement, and opinion formation.
This proposed research area include sentiment analysis of social media data to
systematically examine public emotions, concerns, and enthusiasm surrounding ISRO’s
major space missions. By analyzing sentiment fluctuations before, during, and after
key mission events, this research seeks to provide a comprehensive assessment of the
impact of ISRO’s achievements on its global reputation. The findings will contribute to a
344

--- Page 359 ---
SPACE POLICY &
MANAGEMENT
deeper understanding of how public discourse evolves in response to space exploration
milestones and will offer insights into the broader implications for public engagement,
policy formulation, and scientific communication strategies.
Space education for differently abled students (SAC)
A study conducted in SAC highlighted the importance of designing engaging learning
modules related to Space Science & Technology for differently abled students which
may be inBraille, audio content or in sign language. Studies indicates that such learning
C1.4
modules, especially in local languages, are limited in scope. Options may be explored
to design 3D tactile models of space systems, tactile books, audio books, immersive
modelsbased on ISRO’s space journey, developing space Science based lexicon for
Indian Sign Languagefor supporting SAC’s Space exhibition centre at Ahmedabad.
Knowledge Management Practices in Research and Development (SAC)
C1.5
Libraries represent an indispensable link in the scientific research and knowledge
generation system chain. Knowledge management (KM) has rapidly moved beyond the
stage of a trend and has established itself as a key part of many libraries knowledge
strategy. Consumed and produced knowledge and information are key resources and
is prime indicator for assessment of growth of any organization.Due to increasingly
dynamic environment, organizations are realizing that there is a vast and largely
untapped knowledge asset floating around the organization, which may be tapped and
utilized by an effective KM strategy and implementation plan. Major areas of Knowledge
Management includes development of processes and applications for transforming
research data into scientific information; tools for creation, validation, standardization
and dissemination or sharing of knowledge; the acquisition, contextualizing, and
management processes; and assessment and applications tools using information and
knowledge.The core of the process is how to make implicit or tacit knowledge, explicit.
345

--- Page 360 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
It involves a multi-disciplinary approach to achieve organisational objectives by making
the best use of the explicit and tacit knowledge of researchers. The suggested research
topics are:
• Exploring various Knowledge Management Systems (KMS) programs in different R&D
organisations. Investigating missing interactions in present knowledge management
system. Designing suitable framework for effective Knowledge Management System.
• Development and designing of processes and applications for access management;
resource management, validation, contextualizing, and standardization.
• Development and designing of processes and applications for effective information
retrieval and dissemination tools, integrated search and other applications for
meaningful utilization of knowledge pool.
• Delivery of organized knowledge resources through innovative information services.
• Preservation of Institutional Intellectual output.
Artificial Intelligence (AI)and Libraries (SAC)
Application of AI in libraries, digital preservation, information literacy, and knowledge
management gaining momentum day-by -day. Feasibility studies and subsequent
application developments may be undertaken in some key areas, like in Library
Operations-enhancing search and discovery, and improve user experience; Information
Literacy for librarians and researchers; AI-powered Information Retrieval and
C1.6 Management like metadata extraction, content analysis, and personalized information
delivery, etc.
Libraries can use AI powered recommendation systems to suggest books, articles, or
other resources to users based on their reading history and preferences. Machine
learning algorithms can analyse borrowing patterns and predict future trends, helping
library professionals make informed decisions about which material to acquire, retain or
discard.
Research Information Network System (SAC)
In the present age of networking and immensely potent tools for communication,
scientific communication is no longer limited to scholarly and traditional modes of
research communication. Many research network for collaboration are already in place
and being utilized for advancement of scientific research. Indian research Information
C1.7
Network System (IRINS) is one such web-based Research Information Management
(RIM) service developed by the Information and Library Network (INFLIBNET) Centre.
The portal facilitates the academic, R&D organisations and faculty members, scientists
to collect, curate and showcase the scholarly communication activities and provide an
346

--- Page 361 ---
SPACE POLICY &
MANAGEMENT
opportunity to create the scholarly network. The IRINS is available as free software-as-
service to the academic and R&D organisations in India.
The IRINS supports to integrate the existing research management system such as HR
system, course management, grant management system, institutional repository, open
and commercial citation databases, scholarly publishers, etc. It has integrated with
academic identity such as ORCID ID, Scopus ID, Research ID, Microsoft Academic ID,
Google Scholar ID for ingesting the scholarly publication from various sources. Studies
may be taken up regarding pros and cons of designing and deployment of a dedicated
or joining an existing such networks for better synergy between academia and research
institution.
Data Analytics and Predictive Modelling in Library Services (SAC)
Library can use cutting edge technologies like data analytics and predictive modelling
C1.8 to enhance their services and meet the evolving needs of patrons. By leveraging the
power of data, libraries can gain valuable insights into patron behaviour, usage patterns
and collection trends, ultimately leading to more efficient and personalized services.
Other topics related to capacity building (ISRO-HQ/SAC)
• Impact assessment of deployed space-based services such as Vessel Monitoring
System and developing associated science and technology narratives.
• SWOT analysis of the Indian space ecosystem in line with projected Indian space
economy.
• Assessing and Benchmarking Project Management practices at ISRO besides
developing a case study.
C1.9 • Understanding the influence of psychological variables on the scientific productivity
or performance of scientific and technical personnel.
• Study and development of assessment centre for Training Need Identification of
various cadres.
• Assessing the technology/economic dividends of technology transfer in promoting
private players and enumerating actionable items for improving Indian space
economy.
• Content generation for a specific eLearning modules embedding learning analytics.
D Area Artificial Intelligence for Education (IIRS)
Artificial Intelligence for space science education (IIRS)
D1.1 Artificial Intelligence to enhance digital learning in field of space science for school and
college students. AI is transforming digital education by personalizing learning,
347

--- Page 362 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
automating tasks, and improving efficiency, ultimately creating more engaging and
effective learning environments. AI in education can improve efficiency, engagement,
and equity. AI affects schooling beyond its technological capabilities. AI improves tailored
learning experiences, motivating and retaining students. AI’s capacity to process large
information helps educators understand student performance and provide customized
guidance. Gamified learning and interactive components make learning fun and
engaging.
The study aims to enhance learning space science using AI based innovative methods.
This study will explore utilisation of AI tools and their capabilities like speech recognition
to increase the support available to students with disabilities, multilingual learners, and
others who could benefit from greater adaptability and personalization in digital tools
for learning.
348

--- Page 363 ---
Annexure-1
Application for Grant of Funds
1. Title of the Research Proposal
Name of the Principal Investigator
2.
(Address/Phone/E-mail)
Name(s) of other investigator(s)
3.
with the name(s) of their Institution
Name of the Institution with Full
4.
Address
Whether the Institution/University is a
5. Government Institution or
Non-Government Institution?
Is the Institution/University/Society
6. managed by an NGO/Trust/Society
If yes, provide the details
If the Institution/society is Non-
Government:
NGO Darpan Unique ID of the Institution* :
7. PAN Number* :
*(It is mandatory for all institutions/
professional societies other than Central/
State Govt. Institutions/Departments)
8. Proposed duration of Research Project
Relevant ISRO Centres for this proposal as
9.
per latest RA Document
Amount of grant requested (in Rs.)
1st Year, 2nd Year, 3rd Year & Total
Manpower
Equipment
Satellite Data/Data
Consumables & Supplies
10.
Internal Travel
Miscellaneous
(3% of the total project cost)
Others
Overheads
Total
349

--- Page 364 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
a) Bio-data of all the Investigators (Format-A).
11. b) Brief description of the Research Proposal with details of budget (Format-B).
c) Declaration (Format-C).
I/We have carefully read the terms and conditions for ISRO Research Grants and agree to abide by
them. It is certified that if the research proposal is approved for financial is approved for financial
12.
support by ISRO, all basic facilities including administrative support available at our Institution and
needed to execute the project will be extended to the Principal Investigator and other Investigators.
Name Institution Designation
Principal Investigator
Co-Investigator(s)
Head of the Department/Area
Head of the Institution
#College Seal is Required
350

--- Page 365 ---
Form A
Bio-data of the Investigator(s)
(Bio-data for all the investigators should be given, each on a separate sheet)
1. Name
2. Date of Birth (dd/mm/yyyy)
3. Designation
4. Degrees conferred (begin with Bachelor’s degree)
Degree Institution conferring the degree Field(s) Year
5. Research/training experience (in chronological order)
Duration Institution Name of work done
6. Major scientific fields of Interest
7. List of publications
Email id and Telephone number
8.
of PI with STD Code
Email id of the Head of the
9.
academic institution
351

--- Page 366 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Form B
1. Title of the Research Proposal
• Area (Specify as per RA document)
• Sub Area
2. Summary of the proposed research
A Simple concise statement about the investigation, its
conduct and the anticipated results in no more than 200
words
3. Objectives
A brief definition of the objectives and their scientific,
technical and techno-economic importance.
4. Approach
A clear description of the concepts to be used in the
investigation should be given. All supporting studies
necessary for the investigation should be identified. The
necessary information of any collaborative arrangement,
if existing with other investigators for such studies, should
be furnished. The principal Investigator is expected to have
worked out his collaborative arrangement himself. For
the development of balloon, rocket and satellite-borne
payloads it will be necessary to provide relevant details
of their design. ISRO should also be informed whether
the Institution has adequate facilities for such payload
development or will be dependent on ISRO or some other
Institution for this purpose.
5. Methodology
Details of the method and procedures for carrying out
the investigation with necessary instrumentation and
expected time schedules should be included.
6. Major Scientific fields of Interest
A brief history and basis for the proposal and a
demonstration of the need for such an investigation
preferably with reference to the possible application of
the results to ISRO’s activities. A reference should also be
made to the latest work being carried out in the field and
the present state-of-art of the subject.
7. Linkages to Space Programme
8. Deliverables to ISRO on successful completion of the
project.
9. Data base and analysis
A brief description of the data base and analysis plan
should be included. If any assistance is required from ISRO
for data analysis purposes, it should be indicated clearly.
352

--- Page 367 ---
10. Available Institutional facilities
Facilities such as equipments, etc, available at the parent
Institution for the proposed investigation should be listed.
11. Fund Requirement
Detailed year wise break-up for the Project budget should be given as follows:
Fellowships* Ist Yr 2nd Yr 3rd Yr
Research Fellows
Total
*Note: please specify the designation, qualification and rate of salary per month for each category
Ist Yr 2nd Yr 3rd Yr Total
Equipment**
Total
Please specify the various individual items of equipment and indicate foreign exchange
requirement, if any
Ist Yr 2nd Yr 3rd Yr Total
Satellite data/data
Total
Ist Yr 2nd Yr 3rd Yr Total
Consumables & Supplies *(Justification needed)
Total
Ist Yr 2nd Yr 3rd Yr Total
Internal Travel
Total
Ist Yr 2nd Yr 3rd Yr Total
Miscellaneous
(3% of the total project
cost)
Total
Ist Yr 2nd Yr 3rd Yr Total
Any Others
*(Justification needed)
Total
Ist Yr 2nd Yr 3rd Yr Total
Overheads(Overhead Expenses of 20% of Total Project Cost not exceeding `3.00 lakhs )
Total
10. Whether the same or similar proposal has been Yes/No
submitted to other funding agencies of Government of
India.
If Yes please provide details of the institution & status of
the proposal.
**Justify each equipment. If computer is proposed, only desktop has to be purchased but not laptop.
353

--- Page 368 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Annexure-2
Form –C
Terms and Conditions of ISRO Research Grants
1. The approved funds should be utilized solely for the purpose for which they have been granted
unless ISRO agrees otherwise. A Certification that the funds have been so used should be produced
by the grantee Institution after the end of each year of the support.
2. Due acknowledgement to ISRO should be made in all reports and publications arising out of the
part of the work supported by ISRO. The grantee will take prior permission of ISRO before publishing
any work based on the ISRO supported project.
3. Two copies of all the publications resulting from the research conducted with the aid of the grant
should be submitted to ISRO.
4. Any intellectual property rights or such information/knowledge being able to sustain or create or
any such right arising out of the projects sponsored by ISRO will be held jointly by the Academic
Institution/R & D institution and ISRO as per RESPOND norms. Academic Institute/R & D institution
and ISRO shall inform each other before filing for any protection of any Intellectual Property Rights
resulting from any of the project sponsored by ISRO. Academic institute/R & D institution and ISRO
will ensure appropriate protection of Intellectual Property Rights generated from cooperation,
consistent with laws, rules and regulations of India. The expenses for filling the Patent protection in
India and abroad shall be borne equally between Institute and ISRO. Any/all financial accruals due
to any commercial exploitation, of this patent shall be shared equally between them, on 50:50 basis.
However any of the parties is free to utilize the IPR for their own use on non commercial basis.
5. The principal Investigator is required to submit two copies of yearly reports indicating the progress
of the work accomplished. He is also required to submit two copies of a detailed technical report
on the results of the research/development after the completion of the project. The reports will
become the property of ISRO.
6. In addition, ISRO may designate Scientists/specialists to visit the Institution periodically for reviewing
the progress of the work.
7. An inventory of items purchased from ISRO funds should be sent to ISRO, giving the description
of equipment, cost in rupees, date of purchase and name of the supplier along with a purchase
certificate from the Administration of the Institution. All items of equipments and unconsumable
items costing more than Rs. 5,000/- shall remain the property of ISRO and ISRO reserves the right to
transfer them or dispose of them on the termination of the project as ISRO may deem fit.
8. The accounts of the expenses incurred out of ISRO funds should be properly maintained and should
be authenticated by an approved auditor. The final accounts statement in duplicate duly audit
should be sent to the pay & Accounts Officer, DOS/Senior Accounts Officer, ISRO Headquarters, as
the case may be, at the end of each financial year of support.
354

--- Page 369 ---
9. If the total amount sanctioned is not spent during the period of support, the remainder amount
should be surrendered to the Pay & Accounts Officer, ISRO Headquarters, as the case may be, within
one month after the completion of the project.
10. The assets acquired wholly or substantially out of the ISRO grant should not, without its prior
sanction, be disposed off, encumbered or utilized for purposes other than that for which the grant
is sanctioned.
11. A register of assets permanent and semi-permanent should be maintained by the grantee Institution,
which should be available for scrutiny by Audit.
12. The grantee institution should not divert the grants-in-aid for utilization of the same for similar
objects of another institution if it is not in a position to execute or complete the assignment. The
entire amount of the grant should then be immediately refunded to ISRO by the institution.
13. The terms and condition of ISRO research grants are subject to change from time to time, but the
funding of any project will be governed by the terms and conditions existing on the date of starting
of the project with ISRO funds.
Declaration
I / We have clearly read the above terms and conditions and hereby agree to abide by the rules and
regulations of ISRO research grants and accept to be governed by all the terms and conditions laid
down for this purpose.
I / We certify that I / We have not received any grant-in-aid for the same purpose from any other
Department of the Central Government / State Government / Public Sector Enterprise during the period
to which the grant relates.
Signature & Name Designation
Principal Investigator
Head of the Department /
Area
(college seal is mandatory)
355

--- Page 370 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Annexure-3
RESPOND COORDINATORS OF ISRO/DOS CENTRES
ISRO/
Sl.
DOS Name & Designation Contact details
No
Centre
Dr. Abha Chabra
Scientist/Engineer-SG
RESPOND and Research Management
Division Tel Phone No: 079- 26913333
1. SAC
Research, Outreach and Training Email: research_sac@sac.isro.gov.in
Management Group
Space Applications Centre, ISRO
Ahmedabad-380015, Gujarat
Shri Santhosh Kumar S
Scientist/Engineer-SF
Deputy Division Head
RESPOND Coordinator Tel Phone No: 0471-2564620
2. VSSC
Academic & Sponsored Research Email: s_santhoshkumar@vssc.gov.in
Coordination Division, PPEG
Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre
VSSC, Thiruvananthapuram-695 022, Kerala
Shri TV Shreejith
Scientist/Engineer-SF
RESPOND Coordinator, Tel Phone No: 0471-2567562
3. LPSC PPEG, MSA Entity Email: tvshreejith@lpsc.gov.in,
Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC-V) respond@lpsc.gov.in
Valiamala
Thiruvananthapuram-695 547
Dr. Nandita Srivastava
Senior Professor,
Tel Phone No: 0294-2457211 (office)
Udaipur Solar Observatory
4. PRL Email: nandita@prl.res.in;
Physical Research Laboratory (PRL)
respond@prl.res.in
Badi Road, Dewali
Udaipur-313001, Rajasthan
Dr. J Krishna Kishore
Scientist/Engineer-G, GD, ATDG
RESPOND Coordinator, URSC Tel Phone No: 080-25084480/81
5. URSC U R Rao Satellite Centre 080-25084391
HAL Airport Road Email: jkk@ursc.gov.in
Vimanapura PO,
Bengaluru-560 017, Karnataka
356

--- Page 371 ---
Dr. Chandrasekar K
Scientist/Engineer-G & Group Director
Tel Phone No: 040-23884017
PPEG, MSA
6. NRSC 040-23884012
National Remote Sensing Centre
Email: Chandrasekar_k@nrsc.gov.in
NRSC, Balanagar
Hyderabad-500 037
Dr. S. Sridharan
Scientist/Engineer-SG Tel Phone No: +91-8585-272124
7. NARL National Atmospheric Research Laboratory +91-8585- 272024 (1006)
Gadanki-517 112, Pakala Mandal Email: susridharan@narl.gov.in
Chittoor District, Andhra Pradesh
Shri Bala Narayanan N R,
SDSC- Scientist/Engineer-SE, PPEG / MSA Tel Phone No: 08623 22 6173
8.
SHAR SDSC-SHAR, Sriharikota Email: nrbala@shar.gov.in
Andhra Pradesh-524 124
Shri S. Krishna Diwakar
Scientist/Engineer-SF
Tel Phone No: 04637 281745
9. IPRC DDH, PPED, MSA
Email: diwakar@iprc.gov.in
RESPOND Coordinator
IPRC Mahendragiri-627 133
Dr. Ashutosh Bhardwaj
Scientist/Engineer-SG
RESPOND Coordinator & Head, RPMD
Research Project Monitoring Department Tel Phone No: 0135-2524350/4351
10. IIRS (RPMD), Programme Planning and Evaluation Email: respond@iirs.gov.in;
Group (PPEG) ashutosh@iirs.gov.in
Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS)
4 Kalidas Road
Dehradun–248001
Dr. K K Sharma
RESPOND Committee Chairman
Scientist/Engineer-G Tel Phone No: 0364 2570138
11. NESAC
North Eastern Space Applications Centre Email: kk.sarma@nesac.gov.in
Govt. of India
Umiam-793 103, Meghalaya
Shri K S Nandhakumar
Scientist/Engineer-SG
Head, PPEG, PPED Tel Phone No : 0471 2569357
12. IISU
ISRO Inertial Systems Unit (IISU) Email: ks_nandhakumar@vssc.gov.in
Vattiyoorkavu PO
Thiruvananthapuram-695 013, Kerala
357

--- Page 372 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Shri Pradeep Kumar C
Scientist/Engineer-G
Group Head, Signal Processing & Software
Tel Phone No : 08028094489 /
Development Group
13. ISTRAC 08028094499
Radar Development Area, ISTRAC/ISRO
Email: pradeepkc@istrac.gov.in
Plot No 12 & 13, 3rd Main, Phase II
Peenya Industrial Area
Bangalore-560058, Karnataka
Shri S.N. Jagannath,
Scientist/Engineer-SE Tel Phone No : 08172-273112
14. MCF
Master Control Facility Email: jagannath@mcf.gov.in
Hassan-573201, Karnataka
Shri Ravinthar S
Scientist/Engineer-SG
Group Head Tel Phone No : 080-2217 2620
15. HSFC Programme Planning and Evaluation Group Email: ravinthar-hsfc@isro.gov.in
Management systems Area, Human Space
Flight Centre (HSFC), ISRO HQ
Bengaluru-560094, Karnataka
Shri Raja VLN Sridhar
Scientist/Engineer-SF Tel Phone No : 080 2268 5270/5180
16 LEOS
Laboratory for Electro-Optics Systems (LEOS) Email: rvlnsridhar@leos.gov.in
Peenya, Bengaluru-560058, Karnataka
358

--- Page 373 ---
Annexure-4
REGIONAL ACADEMIC CENTRES FOR SPACE (RAC-S)
Sl. States/UTs covered Name of the
RACS Name Zone Email ID
No under the RAC-S Coordinator & Address
Dr. Namita Mittal
Dadar& Nagar Haveli,
RACS - MNIT Malaviya National Email: coord.
Goa, Daman& Diu, Western
1 Jaipur, Institute of Technology racs@mnit.
Gujarat, Maharashtra Zone
Jaipur Jaipur: 302 017 ac.in
and Rajasthan
Rajasthan
Dr. Madhurya P Bora
North
RACS - Arunachal Pradesh, Professor of Physics
–Eastern Email:
Gauhati Assam, Manipur, Physics Department
2 Zone mpbora@
University, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Gauhati University
gauhati.ac.in
Guwahati Nagaland and Tripura Guwahati: 781 014
Assam
Delhi, Haryana,
Prof. Brahmajit Singh,
Himachal Pradesh,
RACS - NIT Dean, Research & E-mail:
Jammu & Kashmir, Northern
3 Kurukshetra, Consultancy, National brahmajit@
Punjab, Ladakh, Zone
Kurukshetra Institute of Technology nitkkr.ac.in
Chandigarh and
Kurukshetra: 136 119
Uttarakhand
Prof. S. M Kulkarni
Andhra Pradesh,
(Research & Consultancy)
RACS - NITK Karnataka, Kerala, Email: dean.
Southern National Institute of
4 Surathkal, Lakshadweep, rc@nitk.edu.
Zone Technology Karnataka,
Mangalore Pondicherry, Tamil in
Surathkal, Mangalore, Pin
Nadu and Telangana
575 025, Karnataka
Dr. Shishir Gaur, PhD
Assistant Professor
Email:
RACS - IIT Chhattisgarh, Department of Civil
Central shishirg.
5 (BHU), Madhya Pradesh, Engineering
Zone civ@iitbhu.
Varanasi Uttar Pradesh Indian Institute of
ac.in
Technology (BHU)
Varanasi-221005
Dr. Manpuran Mahto
Assistant Professor
Department of
A&N Islands, Bihar, Email:
RACS - NIT Electronics &
6 Jharkhand, Odisha, Eastern mmahto@
Patna, Patna Communication
Sikkim, West Bengal nitp.ac.in
Engineering
National Institute of
Technology (NIT) Patna
359

--- Page 374 ---
AREAS IN SPACE - 2025
Annexure-5
SPACE TECHNOLOGY INCUBATION CENTRE (STIC)
S-TIC Region State & UTs S-TIC Academia Coordinator
Dr. MITRA BARUN SARKAR
National Co-ordinator, S-TIC NITA
Assam, Tripura, Meghalaya,
Institute of North National Institute of Technology
Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh,
Technology, Eastern Agartala
Nagaland, Sikkim
Agartala Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura-799046
Email: stic.nita@nita.ac.in
Dr. Joseph Anand VAZ
Dr. B. R. Professor, Department of Mechanical
Ambedkar Punjab, Haryana, Himanchal Engineering
National Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Dr. B. R. Ambedkar National Institute
Northern
Institute of Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, of Technology
Technology, Chandigarh, Delhi G. T. Road Bye Pass, Jalandhar
Jalandhar Punjab 144 011, India
Email: coordinatorstic@nitj.ac.in
Dr. S.S.Karthikeyan
Associate Professor
National
Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Department of ECE
Institute of
Southern Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, National Institute of Technology
Technology,
Lakshadweep, Puducherry Tiruchirappalli-620 015
Tiruchirappalli
INDIA
Email: isrostic@nitt.edu
Prof. Sunil Bhat
Visvesvaraya
Department of Electrical
National Gujarat, Maharashtra,
Engineering,
Institute of Western Rajasthan, Daman & Diu and
Visvesvaraya National Institute of
Technology, Dadar & Nagar Haveli.
Technology, Nagpur, India -440010
Nagpur
Email: coordinator-stic@vnit.ac.in
Maulana Dr. Savita Nema
Azad National Professor, Electrical Engineering
Uttar Pradesh, Madhya
Institute of Central Department
Pradesh, Chhattisgarh
Technology, M.A.N.I.T. Bhopal PIN 462 003
Bhopal Email: coordinator.stic@manit.ac.in
Dr. Ananta C. Pradhan
National Associate Professor
Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal,
Institute of Department of Physics & Astronomy
Eastern Odisha, Andaman and Nicobar
Technology, National Institute of Technology
Island
Rourkela Rourkela, Odisha - 769008, India
Email: coordinator-stic@nitrkl.ac.in
360

--- Page 375 ---


--- Page 376 ---
RESPOND
CAPACITY BUILDING & PUBLIC OUTREACH (CBPO)
I n d i a n S p a c e R e s e a r c h O r g a n i s a t i o n
Headquarters, Bengaluru