
--- Page 1 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
No. F. NITA. 2(521-ESTT)/ 2022/vol III/734 Date:22ndApril, 2022
FACULTY RECRUITMENT NOTICE
(ROLLING ADVERTISEMENT)
Online applications are invited for recruitment to the posts of Assistant Professor
(Grade-I) and Assistant Professor (Grade-II) at NIT Agartala in various Academic
Departments. The applicants may apply through online application submission
portal available on the Institute website (http://www.nita.ac.in/).
Applicants are requested to go through the details of posts, educational
qualifications, experience, other criteria and instructions for selection to faculty
positions, which are available on the Institute website (http://www.nita.ac.in/).
Opening date of Online portal :25-04-2022
This is a Rolling Advertisement; therefore, applicants can submit their online
applications at any time on or after the opening date. However, every year
processing of the applications by the Departments may be done in two cycles and
the deadlines are generally 30thJune (First Cycle) and 31st December (Second
Cycle) of the respective year or as decided by the Institute at any time considering
the vacancy positions and department wise requirements.
Applications shall be processed based on the requirement of the Institute in
specialized areas. Other applications would be kept alive for processing in the next
cycle.
REGISTRAR
1

--- Page 2 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
No. F. NITA. 2(521-ESTT)/ 2022/Vol. III/734 Date: 22ndApril, 2022
FACULTY RECRUITMENT NOTICE
(ROLLING ADVERTISEMENT)
Online applications are invited for the recruitment of faculty positions to the post of Assistant
Professor (Grade-I) and Assistant Professor (Grade-II) against the rolling advertisement.The
details of the vacancy positions will be notified in the institute website one month before the cut-
off time of each cycle or the time of selection decided by the institute.
I. Assistant Professor (Grade I) – Pay Level 12 (as per 7th CPC) equivalent to Grade Pay
of INR 8000/- (as per 6th CPC)
II. Assistant Professor (Gr.II) – Pay Level 11 (as per 7th CPC) equivalent to Grade Pay
of INR 7000/- (as per 6th CPC) respectively.
III. Assistant Professor (Gr.II) – Pay Level 10 (as per 7th CPC) equivalent to Grade Pay
of INR 6000/- (as per 6th CPC)
SL. DEPARTMENT AREA OF SPECIALIZATION
NO.
1. Bio-Engineering Biotechnology and Biochemical Engineering:
Biotechnology, Biochemical Engineering, Bioinformatics,
Transport Phenomena.
2. Chemical Chemical Engineering or Chemical Technology or
Engineering allied disciplines: Chemical Reaction Engineering and
Catalysis, Chemical Technology or Chemical Processing,
Energy Technology or Fuel Technology, Environmental
Engineering, Fluid Mechanics and Dynamics, Heat Transfer
and Thermodynamics, Modeling, Simulation and Numerical
Analysis, Materials Engineering, Chemical Process Control and
Optimization, Chemical Process or System Engineering,
Process and Equipment Design and Computer Aided Design,
Technology for Polymer/Polymeric products Petroleum and
Petrochemical Engineering, Separation and Purification
processes, Biochemical or Bioprocess Engineering, Any
emerging area of specialization related to Chemical
Engineering discipline.
3. Civil Engineering Structural Engineering:
Earthquake Engineering & Structural Dynamics, Structural
health monitoring and Non-destructive testing, Construction
technology and Management, Building Materials, Bridge
Engineering, Reliability, Retrofitting and Rehabilitation of
structure
Geotechnical Engineering:
Soil mechanics and Foundation Engineering, Numerical
2

--- Page 3 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
Analysis and Design of Geotechnical Structures, Soil
Dynamics, Machine foundation and Earthquake Geotechnical
Engineering, Geo-Mechanics, Deep Foundation, Rock
Engineering
Transportation Engineering:
Pavement Analysis and Design, Traffic Engineering,
Transportation Planning, Pavement Materials.
Water resource Engineering:
Hydrology, Hydraulic Structures, Remote Sensing and GIS,
Fluid Mechanics
Environment Engineering:
Air Pollution, Waste Management, Water and Waste Water
Treatment, Remote Sensing and GIS application in
environment.
Hydro-informatics Engineering:
Climate change, Water Shed Modelling, Water Shed
Management, Data science in Water Engineering, Water and
Energy Nexus.
Seismic Science & Engineering:
Geo-physics and Structural Geology, Seismology, Seismic
Micro zonation and Hazard Assessment.
4. Computer Science & Computer Science and Engineering: Automata,
Engineering Compiler, Algorithm Design, Computational
Complexity, Database Management System, Wireless Sensor
Network, Image and Video analysis, Cloud Computing,
Internet of Things, Cryptography, Cyber Security, Network
Security, Cyber forensics, Real-Time Operating System,
Embedded System, Software Engineering.
Artificial Intelligence: Robotics, Computer Vision,
Natural Language Processing, Big Data, Visual Inference,
Speech Processing, Social Computing, Time Series
Analysis, Data Mining, Data Science, Image Processing,
Machine Learning, Deep Learning.
5. Electrical Control System; Electrical Machine; Power Electronics; Power
Engineering System; Energy Engineering; Communication Engineering;
Software Engineering, Instrumentation Engineering.
6. Electronics and VLSI: VLSI Design, Embedded System,Nano
Communication electronicsSemiconductor Devices,VLSI Fabrication, Hardware
Engineering Security;
Communication: Wireless Communication, Data
Communication and Networking, Networking and
Cryptography, Optical Communication, Information theory and
Coding, Satellite Communication and RADAR;
Signal Processing: Speech Signal Processing, Video Signal
Processing, Image Processing, RADAR Signal Processing;
3

--- Page 4 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
Artificial Intelligence: Machine Learning, Deep Learning,
Natural Language Processing, Artificial Neural Network,
Cognitive Computing;
Microwave Engineering and Antenna:
Microwave Devices, Antenna Design, Computational
Electromagnetics, Metamaterials, RADAR.
7. Electronics and Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering:
Instrumentation Instrumentation and control, Applied electronics and
Engineering Instrumentation, Electronic/Electrical Instrumentation, Sensor
and transducer, Biomedical Signal processing/ Biomedical
Instrumentation, Control System, Adaptive Control, Nonlinear
Dynamics and control, Industrial Instrumentation, Process
control, Industrial Process control and automation, Power
plant instrumentation, Virtual Instrumentation, machine
learning, Robotics and automation, Fuzzy logic and neural
network, Systems design, Non-destructive testing, Electronic
product design, MEMS.
Communication Engineering: signal/Image Processing,
Digital signal Processing, Embedded system, Industrial
Electronics, mobile communication.
Photonics/Optics and Optoelectronics: optical fiber
communication, Optoelectronic instrumentation, nonlinear
optics.
8. Mechanical Machine Design: Tribology, Applied Mechanics, CAD,
Engineering Product Design and Development, Applied Elasticity and
Plasticity, Robotics and Mechanics, Bio inspired robotics,
Fracture Mechanics, Dynamics of Elasto-Mechanical Systems,
Applied Dynamics
Thermal Engineering: Advanced Thermodynamics,
Computational Methods in Thermal Engineering, Automobiles,
Heat Power, Energy Science and Engineering, Power Plant
Engineering, Combustion Technology, Fluid Mechanics, Turbo
machines, Gas Turbines, HVAC systems, Heat and Mass
Transfer
Manufacturing Science and Engineering:
Mechatronics and Manufacturing Automation, Robotics and
Robot Application, Monitoring and Controlling of
Manufacturing Systems, Micro manufacturing Technology,
Micro Machining, Additive Manufacturing, Industrial
Engineering, CAD/CAM and Automation, Operation Research,
Data Analytics, Data Science, Design for Manufacturing, Smart
Manufacturing, Product Design and Development, Metal
Casting Technology and Metal Forming Technology, Welding
Technology
4

--- Page 5 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
Material Science and Engineering: Materials
Engineering, Material Science, Nanotechnology, Bio Materials,
Smart Materials, Corrosion Engineering, Powder Metallurgy,
Metallurgical Engineering, Ceramic Engineering, Composite
Materials, Physical Metallurgy, Metallurgical
Thermodynamics, Process Metallurgy, Extractive Metallurgy,
Non-Destructive Evaluation
9. Production Production Engineering: Condition monitoring of
Engineering industrial machineries, reliability and maintenance
Engineering, decision making;
Design and Production Engineering: Tribology of
Bearing, robotics and control, fluid Power; CAD/CAM and
Automation; Operation Research.
Manufacturing Technology: welding, coating (EDC),
fiber composites, soft computing Techniques, surface
Treatments;EDM, ECM,LBM, NTM, Casting, Forging,
Additive Manufacturing.
Production Management: MCDM, CBR,Plant
Engineering,TQM, Industrial Engineering, Product Design and
Development.
10. Chemistry Chemistry: Organic Chemistry, Inorganic chemistry,
Physical Chemistry.
11. Physics Physics: Classical Mechanics, Electrodynamics, Quantum
Mechanics, Statistical Mechanics, Electronics, Nuclear
Physics, Condensed matter Physics, Atomic and Molecular
Spectroscopy, Quantum Field theory, Gravitation and
cosmology, Computational Physics, Plasma Physics,
Spintronics, Thin film and Nano science, Liquid crystal.
12. Mathematics Mathematics: Algebra, Real and Complex Analysis,
Differential Equations (Ordinary and Partial),Topology
(General, Algebraic, Fuzzy, Advanced), Riemannian
Geometry, Differential Geometry, Mechanics, Number Theory,
Discrete Mathematics, Numerical Methods, Probability and
Statistics, Operations Research, Bio-Mathematics, Fluid
Dynamics, Mathematical Modeling, Soft Computing, Machine
Learning, Artificial Intelligence. Operating System, Computer
Structure and Organization, Computer Organization, Computer
Networking, Computational Mathematics, Design of
Algorithms, Dynamical System, Non-Linear Dynamics,
Decision Theory, Deep Learning, Image Processing, Graph
Theory, Information Theory, Computational Fluid Dynamics,
Data Mining, Cryptology, Automata Theory, Combinatorics,
Stability Analysis, Reliability Analysis, Financial Mathematics,
5

--- Page 6 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
Object Oriented Programming, Data Base Management
System, Engineering Economics and Accountancy, Human
Computer Interaction, Mobile Computing, Cloud Computing,
Compiler Design, Data Structure, Mechanics, Astronomy,
Mathematical Physics and relevant specialization of Pure and
Applied Mathematics.
13. Management, Management: Marketing Management, Financial
Humanities & Social Management, Human Resource Management, System
Sciences Management, Operations Management, Decision Sciences;
Economics: Econometrics. Financial Economics; Business
Economics, International Economics, Macro Economics,
Industrial Organization;
English: Open.
[N.B: Reservation policy for different category will be as per Govt. of India norms.
Reservation policy for the PwD will be followed as per Govt. of India norms.]
For the Academic Departments which are not having any vacancy/ advertised specialization,
movement in Higher Academic Level/ Academic Grade Pay or Cadre may be carried out as per
specified selection process but will be restricted only to the Serving Faculty Members in regular
pay scale of the respective Departments of the Institute. Applications for the Departments/
Specializations, which are not advertised, only internal Regular Faculty may apply in terms of
Note 1(5) of schedule E of statutes 23[5](a) of the First Statutes of the National Institute of
Technology (Amendment) Statutes, 2017.
A notification to update the applications will be published through the Institute’s website and
will be sent to the candidate’s registered email one month prior to the cutoff date. All
qualifications and experiences will be considered up to the cutoff date. Final applications as
received from the application portal on the cut-off datewill be considered for scrutiny.
This is a Rolling Advertisement; therefore, applicants can submit their online applications at any
time on or after the opening date. However, every year processing of the applications by the
Departments may be done in two cycles and the deadlines are generally 30th June (First Cycle)
and 31st December (Second Cycle) of the respective year or as decided by the Institute at any
time considering the vacancy positions and department wise requirements.
Applications shall be processed based on the requirement of the Institute in specialized areas.
Other relevant and suitable applications would be kept alive for processing in the next cycle.
Qualification:
Detailed educational qualification, experience and other criteria for selection of faculty positions
shall be as per the Schedule “E” of the First Statutes of NIT (Amendment Statues, 2017) (Ref.
Gazette of India dated July 24, 2017) and subsequent clarifications received from Ministry of
HRD, New Delhi. The details are available on the website (http://www.nita.ac.in/).
REGISTRAR
NIT AGARTALA
6

--- Page 7 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR RECRUITMENT OF FACULTY POSITIONS
1. How to Apply:
The eligible candidates will be required to apply through the online application submission portal
availableon the Institute website http://www.nita.ac.in. Candidates are advised to make sure that
all the details as entered are correct before final submission. The online portal will allow the
candidate to take print of the filled-in application after successful electronic submission. Every
completed online application shall be identified by a unique application reference number.The
applicant has to take printout of the online application after final submission. Applications
received through any other mode shall not be accepted and will be summarily rejected.
NOTE:
(i) After final submission the data cannot be altered further.
(ii) All qualifications, experience and preferred age limit will be considered as on the last date of
submission of onlineapplication.
(iii)Application Fee: Candidate should pay a nonrefundable application fee through online
payment mode at the time of final submission of the application as below
 For the candidates other than SC/ST/PwDcategory: INR 1000 (rupees one
thousand only) per application.
 For SC/ST category: INR 500(Rupees five hundred only) per application.
 PwDcategory: No fee is required.
(iv) There is no need to send any hard copy of the application. However at the time of documents
verification online generated application along with annexures with signature are to be
submitted.
2. Candidature will be considered on receipt of online application.
3. Serving faculty members of the NIT Agartala may also apply for higher Academic Pay level
or cadre.
4. Persons serving in Govt. / Semi Govt. / PSUs / Universities / Educational Institutions should
furnish a NO OBJECTION CERTIFICATE from the Competent Authority of the
organization serving,at the time of document verification.
5. Reservation policy and age relaxation for different category is applicable as per Govt. of
India norms.
6. Original, Relevant Caste/Category certificates are to be produced at the time of verification/
presentation/interview, if shortlisted.
7. OBC certificate issued inthe current financial year shall only be considered for reservation
under OBC (Non-Creamy Layer) category. EWS certificate issued forthe income of
preceding financial year shall be considered as valid for the current financial year.
8. The persons with disability (PwD) shall be required to submit the Disability/Medical
Certificate in the prescribed form issued by the competent medical authorities for the purpose
of employment as per Government of India norms at the time of
verification/presentation/interview. Persons suffering from not less than 40% of the disability
shall only be eligible for the benefit of reservation under this category.
9. The Institute reserves the right to modify/ defer or cancel the advertisement/ recruitment at
any stage of processing without assigning any reasons.
7

--- Page 8 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
10. The Institute has the right to set norms higher than the minimum eligibility criteria and areas
of specialization while short listing, taking into accounts the specific requirements of the
individual departments. The short-listing norms may not be uniform across the departments/
posts of the Institute and shall be binding on all the applicants. The decision of the Institute
related to all matters pertaining to the recruitment shall be final and binding on the
applicants.
11. Apart from merit, the specialization of a candidate within a department will play a vital role
in selection. Candidates with specialization having greater need by the department will be
given preference. Candidates with studentship or work experience in reputed Universities,
Institution or Industry or with greater relevance to the academic programmes of the
department will be given preference.
12. The essential qualifications, requirementsand credit points are the minimum criteria only for
deciding the eligibility. This shall not ensure short-listings for further selection processes.The
Institute reserves rights to set a higher criterion for short listing. The Institute reserves the
right to screen and call only those candidates who are found prima-facie suitable for being
considered by the Selection Committee. Thus, just mere fulfilling the prescribed conditions
would not entitle the candidates to be called for presentation and interview. The Institute
reserves the right to restrict the number of candidates to be called for interview to a
reasonable limit on the basis of qualifications and experience higher than the minimum
prescribed in the advertisement and other academic achievements. Candidates are expected to
have good academic records throughout with education from reputed institutions.
13. Departments will make attempt to set “shortlisting criteria” that can be easily implemented.
But, considering the multiple attributes that need to be considered, it may become necessary
to make case by case exceptions. Short listing criteria may include, among others, such
condition such as
(i) Superior academic records – allthrough first class or higher grades in
B.Tech./M.Tech/M.Sc/M.A/MBA/M.Com higher than the advertised criteria;
(ii) Reputation of the institutions from where the candidate has obtained degrees;
(iii) Number of unsuccessful attempts for the same post;
(iv) Specializations, including micro specializations;
(v) Professional service record – reputationof organization where experience has been
earned, nature of job, current activities etc.
14. Recruitment to all the posts offaculty positions will be on direct selection basis only.
15. If required, written tests may be conducted for candidates in the specified department(s) for
the post of faculty positions.The date and time may be found in the intimation mail sent
to the candidates and also available in the recruitment website i.e.
https://www.nita.ac.in.In that case, based on the performance in the Written Test,
candidates will be shortlisted for the subsequent selection process i.e., Presentation and
Interview after documents verification.
The Institute may, however, call the candidates directly for presentation and Interview,
without any written test. With regard to the above, the decision of Institute shall be final and
binding.
8

--- Page 9 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
16. The provisionally shortlisted candidates, after the process as mentioned above have to appear
for documents verification with the original certificates,failing which they will not be
considered for Presentation/ Interview.
17. Selected candidates on regular positions will be under probation and will be confirmed
subject to satisfactory completion of the probation period and other requirements as per
Institute rules.
18. Candidates who wish to apply for more than one post should apply separately for each post in
the prescribed mannerwith requisite fee at the time of final submission of the application.
19. Candidates having Ph.D. directly after B.Tech.or Equivalent may also apply and shall be
considered eligible, if other norms are fulfilled.
20. Candidates shall indicate two references of eminent persons in the Field/Profession who may
be contacted by the Institute for their recommendations.
21. The details of vacancy positions will be notified in the institute website one month before the
cut-off time of each cycle or the time of selection, as decided by the institute. NIT
Agartalareserves right to increase or decrease the number of advertised posts to be filled at
the time of selection process. Further, NIT Agartala also reserves the right not to fill any of
the posts advertised.
22. For the Academic Departments which are not having any vacancy/ advertised specialization,
movement in Higher Academic Level/ Academic Grade Pay or Cadre may be carried out as
per specified selection process but will be restricted only to the serving faculty members in
regular pay scale of the respective Departments of the Institute.
23. All Original documents with one set of self-attested copies [educational qualifications, date
of birth, experience, caste certificate, identity proof (Election I-Card/UID Aadhar/PAN /first
page of publications, check list etc.)and two passport size recent photographs of the
candidate will have to be produced at the time of verification of documents / interview (if
shortlisted).
24. Name of the shortlisted candidates will be displayed in the Institute website. Besides, all
information regarding document verification/ presentation/ interview schedule etc. will also
be provided through the Institute website. The Institute will not be responsible in any
manner, if a candidate fails to visit/ access the website in time. No correspondence
whatsoever will be entertained from the candidates regarding the reason for not being called
for interview/ outcome of interview. Candidates are requested to regularly visit the Institute
website i.e., http://www.nita.ac.in for updated information.
25. The candidate is responsible for the correctness and authenticity of the information provided
in the application. If it is found at a later time that any information given in the application is
incorrect/false, the candidature/appointment of the candidate is liable to be cancelled/
terminated.
26. No TA/DA will be paid for attending the document verification/ presentation/ interview.
27. Canvassing in any manner would entail disqualification of the candidature.
28. Higher starting pay and /or pay level may be offered to the deserving candidates on the
recommendation of the Selection Committee upon approval of the Board of Governors.
Selection Committee may also offer lower faculty position, than the post one has applied for.
29. Candidates in India, if invited, have to appear personally in the interview, while those abroad
may be interviewed by audio cum video link. If a candidate wishes to be interviewed through
the audio-visual mode, a request from the candidates should be sent to the Institute giving all
details for communication. Institute does not guarantee consistent internet connectivity and
hence the candidate will appear through this media at his/ her own responsibility for the
internet connectivity. Institute will not take any responsibility for internet connectivity.
9

--- Page 10 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
30. Incomplete applications are liable to be rejected.
31. All qualifications, experiences and age limit will be considered as on the cutoff date or
revised cut-off date whichever is applicable.
32. All educational qualifications mentioned in the application should be awarded by the
recognized University/ Institute/ Board.
33. MoE notification F. No. 33-9/2011-TS.III dated 04-12-2017 for Implementation of
recruitment rules for faculty of NITs and IIEST will be followed.
34. Any subsequent changes received in recruitment rules or guidelines by the Council/ BoG/
MoE shall be applicable accordingly in the recruitment process.
35. DOCUMENTS / CERTIFICATES:
a. Self-attested copies of the certificates from class X onwards along with mark statements as
proof of educational testimonials claimed. In case of non-issuance of any degree certificate,
provisional certificate along with mark sheets will be accepted.
b. Self-attested copies of certificate(s) for the entire experience claimed, clearly mentioning the
duration of employment (date, month and year), nature of the post (regular/contractual)
indicating the basic pay or consolidated pay. The certificate(s) should also mention the nature
of duties performed/ experience obtained in the post(s) with duration(s). Experience
certificate should be relevant to the post.
c. The Following Original Documents, Certificates are to be produced along with self-attested
copies at the time of documents verification, including other items as specified on the
Institute website for candidates called for Interview, failing which the candidate would not be
allowed to appear in the Interview:
(i) All claimed education degrees and certificates. Matriculation/ 10th Standard or
equivalent certificate indicating date of birth issued by Central/ State Board indicating
date of birth in support of their claim of age. Where date of birth is not available in
certificate/ mark sheets, issued by concerned Educational Boards, School leaving
certificate indicating date of Birth will be considered.
(ii) NOC and experience Certificate(s) from the Head(s) of Organization(s) for the entire
experience claimed, clearly mentioning the duration of employment (date, month & year)
indicating the basic pay and the consolidated pay. The certificate(s) should also mention
the nature of duties performed/experience obtained in the post(s) with duration(s).
(iii)Caste certificate by a candidate seeking reservation under SC/ST/OBC category, in the
prescribed proforma only from the competent authority indicating clearly the candidate’s
Caste, the Act/ Order as per Central Govt. List under which the Caste is recognized as
SC/ ST/OBC.
(iv) Disability/Medical Certificate in the prescribed form issued by the competent medical
authorities in case of PwD candidate.
36. The decision of the Institute in all matters will be final. No correspondence/ interim inquiries
will be entertained from the candidates in connection with the process of short listing /
selection/ interview including reasons for not being called for interview. Any dispute with
regard to the selection/ recruitment process will be under the jurisdiction of the Hon’ble High
Court of Tripura.
NOTE-I - Original certificates along with one set of self-attested copies should be produced only
at the time of interview for verification, if shortlisted.
10

--- Page 11 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
NOTE-II - Date of birth mentioned in the Application Form shall be considered final. No
subsequent request for change of date of birth will be considered at later stage.
NOTE-III - The period of experience rendered by a candidate on part time basis, daily wages,
visiting/ Guest faculty/ Purely on Contract Basis (Fixed Remuneration) will not be counted while
calculating the valid experience for short listing the candidates for interview.
NOTE-IV - Applicants who will be short listed for interview/ document verification will be
required to submit the hardcopy of duly filled in and online generated application form along
with annexure at the time of document verification.
REGISTRAR
NIT AGARTALA
11

--- Page 12 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
Schedule “E” of the First Statutes of the NIT (Amendment Statutes, 2017)
“Schedule ‘E’
[See Statute 23 (5) (a)]
Qualification and other terms and conditions of appointment of Academic staff
Cumulative
Designation, Pay Band Essential
Sl.No. Essential Requirements Essential Credit
and Academic Grade Pay Qualification
Points
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5)
1. *Assistant Professor Ph.D. NIL NIL
(On contract)
Pay Band-3 with Grade Pay
of Rs.6000
2. *Assistant Professor Ph.D. one year post Ph.D. experience of 10
Teaching and Research in Institution of
(On contract)
repute or Industry
Pay Band-3 with Grade Pay
of Rs.7000
3. *Assistant Professor Ph.D. three years after Ph.D. or six years total
teaching and research experience in
Pay Band-3 with Grade Pay 20
reputed academic Institute or Research
of Rs.8000 with a minimum
and Development Labs or relevant
pay ofRs.30000
industry.
4. Associate Professor Ph.D. six years after Ph.D. of which at least 50
three years at the level of Assistant
Pay Band-4 with Grade Pay
Professor with Academic Grade Pay of
of Rs.9500 with a
Rs.8000;
minimum pay ofRs.42800
Or
nine years total working experience, of
which three years should be after
Ph.D., with at least three years at the
level of Assistant Professor with
Academic Grade Pay ofRs.8000.
5. Professor Ph.D. ten years after Ph.D. or thirteen years 80
total working experience, out of which
Pay Band-4 with Grade Pay
seven years should be after Ph.D. At
of Rs.10500 with minimum
least three years at the level of
pay of Rs.48000
Associate professor with Academic
Grade Pay of Rs.9500 or four years at
the level of Associate Professor with
Academic Grade Pay of Rs.9000 or
combination of Rs.9000 and Rs.9500 or
equivalent in an Institution of repute or
Research & Development lab or
relevant industry.
Cumulative
Designation, Pay Band Essential
Sl.No. Essential Requirements Essential Credit
and Academic Grade Pay Qualification
Points
12

--- Page 13 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5)
6. Professor Ph.D. Six years as Professor with Academic 150
Grade Pay of Rs.10000 or Rs.10500 or
(Higher Administrative
a combination of Rs.10000 and
Grade Scale)
Rs.10500 in an Institute of National
Rs.67000–79000 Importance.
Note 1:
(1) Any change in the grade pay will be through open advertisement and on recommendation of duly constituted
selection committee, except where specifically exempted in these rules.
(2) All new entrants shall have Ph.D. in the relevant or equivalent discipline and shall have first class in the
preceding degrees.
(3) For existing faculty members who completed their Ph.D. along-with their normal teaching load of Institute or
quality improvement programme, the enrolment period of Ph.D. will be counted as teaching experience.
(4) Contribution to Institute Administration shall be recommended by concerned Head or Chairman and approved by
the Director. Contribution to departmental Administration shall be recommended by concerned Head and
approved by the Director.
(5) For the departments which are not having any vacancy, movement in higher Academic Grade Pay or cadre shall
be carried out as per specified selection process but it will be restricted to only for serving faculty members of the
respective departments.
(6) The permanent faculty members who have put in more than ten years’ experience, but have not acquired Ph.D.
qualification as on the date of these notification shall be mapped into four-tier flexible system as one time
measure as per following norms:
(a) Permanent faculty with age fifty or above:
(i) The Assistant Professors with Academic Grade Pay of Rs.7000 shall be mapped at the level of
Assistant Professor with Academic Grade Pay of Rs.8000, provided they have at least 10 credit points
in their lifetime.
(ii) The Assistant Professors with Academic Grade Pay of Rs.8000 shall be mapped at the level of
Associate Professor with Academic Grade Pay of Rs.9500, provided they have at least 25 credit points
in their lifetime.
(iii) The Associate Professors with Academic Grade Pay of Rs.9000 shall be mapped at the level of
Associate Professor with Academic Grade Pay of Rs.9500, provided they have at least 25 credit points
in their lifetime:
Provided, they have been found suitable through a Selection Committee duly constituted under the Statutes.
(b) Permanent faculty members less than fifty years of age shall be sponsored for Ph.D. in any of the Indian
Institutes of Technology or National Institutes of Technology duly provided a facility to take study leave of three-
years from their respective National Institute of Technology and on completion of the Ph.D., they shall compete
to get into the four-tier system as per the new recruitment rules.
(7) For faculty in the Department of Architecture, following shall be essential qualification without insisting on credit
point requirements at Assistant Professor level:
(i) M.Arch. or M.Plan. with one-year professional experience: Assistant Professor at Academic Grade Pay of
Rs.6000;
(ii) M.Arch. or M.Plan. with two years of professional experience: Assistant Professor at Academic Grade
Pay of Rs.7000;
(iii) For higher cadres the educational qualifications and credit point requirement shall remain same as given in
the table for Engineering and Sciences.
Note 2: Credit Point System
The following shall be the credit point system:
13

--- Page 14 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
GUIDELINES FOR CALCULATION OF CREDIT POINTS
SN Activity Credit Points Guide lines Enclosure
MAX
MARKS
One externally 8 credit points per 1. Only external research
Sponsored R&D project or 8 credit points project funding agencies
Projects completed or per patent as inventor will be considered.
ongoing/Patent granted (in case of more than 2. In case of letter in the
(Non- exhaustible) one person in a project, name of PI, documents
the Principal specifying information of
Investigator gets 5 credit Co-PI shall be submitted.
points and the rest to the 3. Sanction Letter of R&D
divided equally among. Project from Government
Other members.) departments/ PSU will be
considered as on-going
project.
4. In case sanction letter
D1
mentions multiple Pls
1
(N)/Patent granted to
multiple persons, each one
will get 8/N points.
5. The project needs to be
of research type. Grants
received under
TEQIP/COE/MODROBS/FIST
etc will not come under
this category.
6. Young Scientist awards
will be considered for
appointment through direct
recruitment only up to Pay
level 12
Consultancy Projects 2 credit points @ Rs 5 1. Consultancy amount of 5
(Non- exhaustible) lakhs of consultancy, lakhs can be in a single
subject to maximum of
assignment or cumulative
10 Credit Points. D2
amount of multiple
2 assignments.
10
2. If there are ‘N’
coordinators the points
shall get divided by N for
each coordinator.
Ph.D. Completed 8 credit points per Ph.D If guide and co-guide are
(including submitted student (in case there are not mentioned explicitly D3
3
cases) more than one then 8 points will be
(Non- exhaustible) supervisor, then the divided equally amongst all
14

--- Page 15 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
Guide (1st Supervisor) guides. It should be
gets 5 credit points per supported by notification.
student and the rest to be
divided equally among
other supervisor.
Journal Papers in 4 points per paper First
D4
SCI/Scopus (Paid author or Main
4 Journal not allowed) supervisor will get 2
(Non- exhaustible) point and rest will be
divided among others
Conference Papers 1 credit points per paper
indexed in up to a maximum of 10
SCI/Scopus/Web of credit points. First D5
Science Conference /any author or Main
5
internationally renowned Supervisor will get 0.6 10
conference (After last and rest will be divided
appointment) among the rest.
HOD, Dean, Chief 2 points per semester up Any duty assigned by Head
Warden, Prof In- to a max of 16 credits of Institutions at par with
Charge(T&P), Advisor points since the last HoD/Dean etc. within the
D6
(Estate), CVO, PI promotion. Institute for minimum one
6 (Exam), TEQIP year shall be considered
16
(Coordinator) (for example Registrar In
charge, Nodal officer,
HOD(GeM) prof. in charge
for the cell)
Warden, Asst Warden, 1 credit point per Any duty assigned by Head
Associate Dean, semester up to a of Institution at par with
D7
Chairman/Convener maximum of 8 credits Warden / Associate Dean
institute academic points since the last etc., within the Institute for
08
committee, faculty In promotion. minimum one year shall be
7 Charge Computer considered. (For example,
Center/IT CPIO, First year
Services/Library/Admiss coordinator, Chairman
ion/Student activities Cell.
and other institution
activities
Chairman and Convener 0.5 credit point per Chairman / Convener of
of different standing semesters up to a various committees at
committee and special maximum of 3 credits institute level i.e., special
D8
committee (ex officio points since the last cell, women cell, grievance
8 status will not be promotion. committee, store purchase
03
considered). Faculty in committee, students’
charges (each for one yr grievances, academic
duration) of different discipline and vigilance
units or equivalent committee, etc.
15

--- Page 16 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
Departmental activities 0.5 credit point per Any duty assigned by Head
identified by HODs like semesters up to a of Department for
lab in charge, or maximum up to a minimum one year shall be
department level maximum of 3 credits considered i.e., Faculty
committee for a min points since the last advisor (UG/PG), UG/PG
period of 1 yr. promotion. Coordinator, DC, Purchase,
Time Table Coordinator,
PhD coordinator, first year
subject coordinator, NBA,
D9
NIRF, TEQIP, Academic
9 Audit, departmental
03
student society,
departmental gathering
coordinators, departmental
library in-charge, seminar
hall/smart class room in-
charge, Mentor
(Departmental) or any other
duty of similar nature
assigned by HoD for a
year.
10 Workshop/FDP/Short 2 credit points per In case of multiple
D10
term courses of min 05 course up to a maximum coordinators (N), these
working days duration of 8 credit points since credits shall be divided by
08
offered as coordinator or the last promotion. N
convener
For conducting national 2 credit points per In case of multiple
programs like GIAN etc. course up to a maximum coordinators (N), these
as course coordinator of 4 credit points since credits shall be divided by
D11
Program of two weeks the last promotion N
11
duration 1 credit point per course 04/02
Program of one week up to a maximum of 2
duration credit points since the
last promotion.
National/International 3 credit points per 1. In case of multiple
Conference organized as program up a maximum coordinators (N) i.e.,
Chairman/Secretary of 6 credits points since Chairman/Secretary/Coordi D12
the last promotion. nator/Convener, these
12
credits shall be divided by 06
N.
2. The Conference should
be conducted at NITA
Length of service over 2 Credit points per The credit point shall be in
D13
and above the relevant semester with maximum multiple of two. No
13 minimum teaching of 10 credit points since fraction and odd numbers
10
experience required for a the last promotion. are allowed.
given cadre
16

--- Page 17 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
Establishment of New 4 credit points since the Max. 4 credits and this do
Lab(s) last promotion. not include the basic labs
for core subjects and
facility developed as a part
of R&D projects.
(i) Lab should have facility
of conducting at least 5
experiments with
documentation. In case of
less experiment, point D14
based on pro-rata basis can
14
be assigned i.e., per 04
experiment 0.8. This
should be certified by HoD
with photograph.
In case of more
coordinators (N) points
shall be equally divided
amongst them.
Lab developed under
TEQIP and others funding
agency will come here.
Theory Teaching of over 1 credit point or credit i.e., 12 credit (only Theory D15
and above 6 credit hrs hrs. up to a maximum of hrs. without counting
course 6 credit points since the credits for practical/tutorial 06
last promotion. hrs.) Per year and average
15
shall be taken to calculate
the credit points.
PG Dissertation Guided 0.5 credit point per D16
project to a maximum of
16
10 points since the last 10
promotion.
UG Projects 0.25 credit point or credit D17
project up to a maximum
17
of 4 credit points since the
04
last promotion
Text/Reference Books 6 credit points per book. 1. The book shall be in
Published on relevant up to a maximum of 18 his/her own academic area
subjects from reputed credit points since the (Department).
D18
international publishers last promotion 2. In case of multiple
18 authors (N) the credit
18
points shall be divided by
N.
3. Thesis published in the
form of a book will not be
17

--- Page 18 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Tripura, India, Pin –799046
considered.
Text/Reference Books 2 credit point per unit up 1. The book/chapters shall
Published on relevant to a maximum of 6 be in his/her own academic
subjects from reputed points since the last area (Department). D19
national publishers or promotion 2. In case of multiple
19
book chapters in the authors (N) the credit 06
book published by points shall be divided by
reputed international N.
publishers
Significant Outreach 1 credit point per 1. This includes sustainable
Institute Activities activity up to a social activities continued
maximum of 4 for at least one yeari.e.,
pointssince the last RashtriyaAvishkarAbhiyan
D20
promotion , Prayaas,Unnat Bharat
20 Abhiyan etc.
04
2. If there are more
conveners (N) points shall
get divided by N.
3. This also does not
include industrial visits.
Fellow IEEE, FNA, 10 credit points
FNAE, FNASc(Non-
D21
exhaustible)
21
10
Placement percentage (Only for the placement cell officers/Faculty in-charge of Placement)
Above 85%, 4 credit point per year
D22
up to a maximum of 20
points since the last
20
promotion
22
75%-84% 2 credit point per year
D22
(% to be based on total up to a maximum of 10
number of students pointsince the last
10
passing out and single promotion
job offer)
18