
--- Page 1 ---
No. 1/8/2007-IR
Government of India
Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions
(Department of Personnel & Training)

a

New Delhi, the 8” November, 2007
OFFICE MEMORANDUM

Subject: Guidelines for information seekers under the Right to Information
Act, 2005.

AK

The undersigned is directed to say that this Department, soon after the
enactment of the Right to Information Act, 2005, had posted reply to some
‘Frequently Asked Questions’ regarding implementation of the Act on its
website (http://righttoinformation.gov.in/) so as to enable smooth exercise of the
right to information by persons who wish to do so. A number of references have
since been received which would show that there is a need to issue further
guidelines elaborating some provisions of the Act and method of its use by the
general public. The guidelines have, accordingly, been prepared for the
information seekers, a copy of which is enclosed. It is requested that these
guidelines may be given wide publicity.

(K.G. Verm
Director

Tel: 23092158
To

-_

All Ministries / Departments of Govt. of India

2. Union Public Service Commission / Lok Sabha Secretariat / Rajya
Sabha Secretariat / Cabinet Secretariat / Central Vigilance
Commission / President’s Secretariat / Vice-President’s Secretariat /
Prime Minister’s Office / Planning Commission

3, Staff Selection Commission, CGO Complex, Lodi Road, New Delhi.

4, Office of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India, 10, Bahadur
Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi.

5. Central Information Commission/State Information Commissions.

 


--- Page 2 ---
SEAM -1/8/2007-31S. 3.
ANA AH
Hearn, step Raatd aM deat wares
(aifaen 3x wiser fase)

as fool, fain: 08 HARA, 2007
Pica Bet
fase: Been ar ate sofas, 2005 & Hata Aan Higa aret & fee feen-faceri

wulercrent at ae weet ar face ea & fe se fae aA qa a HEN Hofer,
2005 & ap] eet & cena we sa Sita & araieqasg HF Ta A aa YS AT Ho wal F
BA HUE FIaSe (http://righttoinformation.gov.in) WW sta fey WM ares ay ar Been H see AT
wat wen Med &, SoH Yas sa a oat ax wh sah we CH as waa TAA are Pres
Fee gan fe afatrar & pe cau hh caren awl HH ae ana sree a sat Tat
fare qr cre wr ee feen-ade att wer A Teta Fi TGA, Wee Aree areit & fore Peen-
ferée dane fore are forah ven ofl dora B1 Healy @ fH sat feen-fagei ar cao wan Ray
STE |

(ort 3
Fete
celta : 23092158

1, AA BH & as Haters]

2. we ote Ra wave am afar var aaa Beaded
Sada Haga Baasu Weala aaa Bravest HAT

3. PAINT Wet Bra, Asia. asa, ae we, as feral

4, one & feria se Herehar aelares HT Brae, 10, THR MMe SHC Ar, As echt!

5. hegrey Fo HARMAN Bar sate}

viefata ; wait weaide enfea ast & qea afar - aes & fe devs feen-fage sata

. sToT(st.) A Hee aR st aa sere caren TaN Prat wel Wea aH 3A
Hata Ha at akn oftenizat A Aa wa ara & Bay A at set wa & feen-
face ant art ux Rae wy


--- Page 3 ---
GUIDE FOR THE INFORMATION SEEKERS

HOW TO GET INFORMATION

FROM THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES OF THE CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT

UNDER

THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION ACT, 2005

Government of India
Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions
Department of Personnel & Training
North Block, New Delhi


--- Page 4 ---
Gan Aire aret ch faw feen-fercer

Waa ar after sia, 2005
we Hea
Peet MH aw al witha F
GSAT WT et HT ATT

HRA GLH
fan, ates Renae AM Ua AAA
pif six wiseror fersaer


--- Page 5 ---
Contents Page No. «
Foreword

Object of the Right to Information Act

re
z
0
mi
ad
. 43

What is Information

i
co

Right to Information under the Act

Exemptions from Disclosure

|

Central Public Information Officers

ow
b

Assistance Available From CPIOs

 

:

Suo Motu Disclosure

:

 

 

 

0. Fee for Seeking Information 4-5
11. Format of Application PR
12. Disposal of the Request 5-6
13. First Appeal 6-7
14. - | Second Appeal 7
15. Complaints 8
16. Disposal of Appeals and Complaints by 8

the CIC

17. | Important Web-sites | 8

 

Ties,
a.

$
’


--- Page 6 ---


--- Page 7 ---
FOREWORD

The Right to Information Act, 2005 has converted the prevailing culture of
secrecy into a culture of openness and transparency in the working of the Government.
It will go a long way in strengthening our democratic institutions, empowering the
public, removing corruption and greater involvement of citizens in the development of

the nation.

This compilation explains the method of making application for seeking
information from the public authorities under the Central Government, the procedure
for preparing appeals and the steps for filing complaints in the matter and other related
issues, The contents of this document would apply mostly in connection with getting
information from the public authorities of the State Governments as well.
Nevertheless, since there are different fee rules and appeal rules in different States, the

States may like to bring out their own guide on the subject on similar lines.

I wish the Right to Information Act is made use of by the public for larger
public good.

Bra

(Satyananda Mishra)
Secretary
Department of Personnel & Training,
Ministry of Personnel, Public
Grievances and Pensions
New Delhi

Dated: the 8” November, 2007

Ses


--- Page 8 ---
A GUIDE FOR THE INFORMATION SEEKERS UNDER THE RIGHT
TO INFORMATION ACT, 2005.

- Object of the Right to Information Act

The basic object of the Right to Information Act is to empower the citizens,

promote transparency and accountability in the working of the Government, contain

corruption, and make our democracy work for the people in real sense. An informed
citizenry will be better equipped to keep necessary vigil on the instruments of
governance and make the government more accountable to the governed. The Act has
created a practical regime through which the citizens of the country may have access
to information under the control of public authorities.

What is Information

2. Information is any material in any form. It includes records, documents,
memos, e-mails, opinions, advices, press releases, circulars, orders, logbooks,
contracts, reports, papers, samples, models, data material held in any electronic form.
It also includes information relating to any private body which can be accessed by the
public authority under any law for the time being in force.

Right to Information under the Act

3. A citizen has a right to seek such information from a public authority which is
held by the public authority or which is held under its control. This right includes
inspection of work, documents and records; taking notes, extracts or certified copies
of documents or records; taking certified samples of material held by the public
authority or held under the control of the public authority.

4, The public authority under the RTI Act is not supposed to create information;
or to interpret information; or to solve the problems raised by the applicants; or to
furnish replies to hypothetical questions. Only such information can be had under the
Act which already exists with the public authority.

5. A citizen has a right to obtain information in the form of diskettes, floppies,

tapes, video cassettes or in any other electronic mode or through print-outs provided

5


--- Page 9 ---
information is already stored in a computer or in any other device from which the
information may be transferred to diskettes etc.

6. The information to the applicant shal! ordinarily be provided in the form in
which it is sought. However, if the supply of information sought in a particular form

would disproportionately divert the resources of the public authority or may cause

harm to the safety or preservation of the records, supply of information in that form

may be denied,

7, The Act gives the right to information only to the citizens of India. It does not
make provision for giving information to Corporations, Associations, Companies etc.
which are legal entities/persons, but not citizens. However, if an application is made
by an employee or office-bearer of any Corporation, Association, Company, NGO etc.
who is also a citizen of India, information shall be supplied to him/her, provided the
applicant gives his/her full name. In such cases, it will be presumed that a citizen has
sought information at the address of the Corporation etc.

Exemptions from Disclosure

8. The right to seek information from a public authority is not absolute. Sections 8
and 9 of the Act enumerate the categories of information which are exempt from
disclosure. At the same time Schedule I of the Act contains the names of the
Intelligence and Security Organisations which are exempt from the purview of the
Act. The exemption of the organisations, however, does not cover supply of
information relating to allegations of corruption and human rights violations.

9. The applicants should abstain from seeking information which is exempt under
Section 8 and 9 and also from the organizations included in the Second Schedule
except information relating to allegations of corruption and human rights violations.
Central Public Information Officers

10. Application for seeking information should be made to an officer of the public
authority who is designated as Central Public Information Officer (CPIO). ATi the
public authorities have designated their Central Public Information Officers and have
posted their particulars on their respective web-sites. This information is also available
on the ‘RTI PORTAL’ (www.rti.gov.in). Persons seeking information are advised to
refer to the web-site of the concerned public authority or the ‘RTI PORTAL’ for

3


--- Page 10 ---
ascertaining the name of the concerned CPIO. If it is found difficult to identify or
locate the concerned Central Public Information Officer of a public authority,
application may be sent to the Central Public Information Officer without specifying
the name of the CPIO at the address of the public authority. :
Assistance Available From CPIOs

11. The Central Public Information Officer shall render reasonable assistance to the

persons seeking information. If a person is unable to make a request in writing, he

may seek the help of the CPIO to write his application. Where a decision is taken to
give access to a sensorily disabled person to any document, the Central Public
Information Officer, shall provide such assistance to enable access to information,
including providing such assistance to the person as may be appropriate for the
inspection.

Suo Motu Disclosure

12. The Act makes it obligatory for every public authority to make suo-motu
disclosure in respect of the particulars of its organization, functions, duties etc. as
provided in section 4 of the Act. Besides, some public authorities under the Central
Government have published other information and have posted them on their

websites,

Method of Seeking Information

13. A citizen who desires to obtain any information under the Act, should make an
application to the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO) of the concerned public
authority in writing in English or Hindi or in the official language of the area in which
the application is made. The applicant can send the application by post or through
electronic means or can deliver it personally in the office of the public authority. The
application can also be sent through a Central Assistant Public Information Officer
appointed by the Department of Post at sub-divisional level or other sub-district level.
Fee for Seeking Information

14. The applicant, along with the application, should send a demand draft or a
banker’s cheque or an Indian Postal Order of Rs.10/- (Rupees ten), payable to the
Accounts Officer of the public authority as fee prescribed for seeking information.

The payment of fee can also be made by way of cash to the Accounts Officer of the

4

Ye


--- Page 11 ---
public authority or to the Central Assistant Public Information Officer against proper

receipt.

15. The applicant may also be required to pay further fee towards the cost of

providing the information, details of which shall be intimated to the applicant by the

CPIO as prescribed by the Right to Information (Regulation of Fee and Cost) Rules,

2005. Rates of fee as prescribed in the Rules are given below:

(a) rupees two (Rs. 2/-) for each page (in A-4 or A-3 size paper) created or copied,

(b) actual charge or cost price of a copy in larger size paper;

(c) actual cost or price for samples or models;

(d) for inspection of records, no fee for the first hour; and a fee of rupees five (Rs.5/-)
for each subsequent hour (or fraction thereof);

(e) for information provided in diskette or floppy rupees fifty (Rs.50/-) per diskette or
floppy; and

(f} for information provided in printed form at the price fixed for such publication or
rupees two per page of photocopy for extracts from the publication.

16. ‘If the applicant belongs to below poverty line (BPL) category, he is not

required to pay any fee. However, he should submit a proof in support of his claim to

belong to the below poverty line. The application not accompanied by the prescribed

fee of Rs.10/- or proof of the applicant’s belonging to below poverty line, as the case

may be, shall not be a valid application under the Act and therefore, does not entitle

the applicant to get information.

Format of Application

17, There is no prescribed form of application for seeking information. The

application can be made on plain paper. The application should, however, have the

name and complete postal address of the applicant. Even in cases where the

information is sought electronically, the application should contain name and postal

address of the applicant.

18. The information seeker is not required to give reasons for seeking information.

Disposal of the Request

19. The CPIO is required to provide information to the applicant within thirty

days of the receipt of a valid application. If the information sought for concerns the

5


--- Page 12 ---
life or liberty of a person, the information shall be provided within forty-eight hours
of the receipt of the request. If the CPIO is of the view that the information sought
for cannot be supplied under the provisions of the Act, he would reject the application.
However, while rejecting the application, he shall inform the applicant the reasons for
such rejection and the particulars of the appellate authority. He would also inform the
applicant the period within which appeal may be preferred.

20. If an applicant is required to make payment for obtaining information, in
addition to the application fee, the Central Public Information Officer would inform
the applicant about the details of further fees alongwith the calculation made to arrive
at the amount payable by the applicant. After receiving such a communication from
the CPIO, the applicant may deposit the amount by way of cash against proper receipt
or by Demand Draft or by Banker’s cheque or by Indian Postal Order in favour of the
Accounts Officer of the concerned public authority. The CPIO is under no obligation
to make available the information if the additional fee intimated by him is not
deposited by the applicant.

21. Where an additional fee is required to be paid, the period intervening between
the dispatch of the intimation regarding payment of additional fee and payment of fee
by the applicant shall be excluded for the purpose of computing the period of thirty
days within which the CPIO is required to furnish the information.

22. If the CPIO fails to send decision on the request on the information within the
period of thirty days or forty-eight hours, as the case may be, the information may be
deemed to have been refused. |

First Appeal

23. If an applicant is not supplied information within the prescribed time of thirty
days or 48 hours, as the case may be, or is not satisfied with the information furnished
to him, he may prefer an appeal to the first appellate authority who is an officer
senior in rank to the CPIO. Such an appeal, should be filed within a period of thirty
days from the date on which the limit of 30 days of supply of information is expired or

from the date on which the information or decision of the CPIO is received.


--- Page 13 ---
24, The appellate authority of the public authority shall dispose of the appeal
within a period of thirty days or in exceptional cases within 45 days of the receipt of
the appeal.

Second Appeal

25. If the appellate authority fails to pass an order on the appeal within the-

prescribed period or if the appellant is not satisfied with the order of the first appellate

authority, he may prefer a second appeal with the Central Information Commission

within ninety days from the date on which the decision should have been made by the
first appellate authority or was actually received by the appellant. The appeal made
to the Central Information Commission should contain the following information: -

(i) | Name and address of the appellant;

(ii) | Name and address of the Central Public Information Officer against the
decision of whom the appeal is preferred;

(iii) Particulars of the order including number, if any, against which the appeal is
preferred;

(iv) Brief facts leading to the appeal;

(v} If the appeal is preferred against deemed refusal, particulars of the application,
including number and date and name and address of the Central Public
Information Officer to whom the application was made;

(vi) Prayer or relief sought;

{v) | Grounds for prayer or relief,

(vi) Verification by the appellant; and

(vit) Any other information, which the Commission may deem necessary for
deciding the appeal.

26. The appeal made to the Central Information Commission should be

accompanied by the following documents:

(i) —‘ Self-attested copies of the orders or documents against which appeal is made;

(ii) | Copies of the documents relied upon by the appellant and referred to in the
appeal; and

(iii) An index of the documents referred to in the appeal.


--- Page 14 ---
Complaints
27. If any person is unable to submit a request to a Central Public Information

Officer either by reason that such an officer has not been appointed by the concerned

_public authority; or the Central Assistant Central Public Information Officer has

refused to accept his or her application or appeal for forwarding the same to the

Central Public Information Officer or the appellate authority, as the case may be; or .

he has been refused access to any information requested by him under the RT] Act; or
he has not been given a response to a request for information within the time limit
specified in the Act; or he has been required to pay an amount of fee which he
considers unreasonable; or he believes that he has been given incomplete, misleading
or false information, he can make a complaint to the Central Information Commission.
Disposal of Appeals and Complaints by the CIC
28. The Central Information Commission decides the appeals and complaints and
conveys its decision to the appellant/complainant and first appellate authority/CPIO.
The Commission may decide an appeal/complaint after hearing the parties to the
appeal/complaint or by imspection of documents produced by the
appellant/complainant and CPIO or such senior officer of the public authority who
decided the first appeal. If the Commission chooses to hear the parties before deciding
the appeal or the complaint, the Commission will inform of the date of hearing to the
appellant or the complainant at least seven clear days before the date of hearing, The
appellant/complainant has the discretion to be present in person or through his
authorized representative at the time of hearing or may opt not to be present.
Important Web-sites
29. Given below are the addresses of some important web-sites which contain
substantial information relevant to the right to information:

(i) ‘Portal of the Government of India (http://indiaimage.nic.in).

Gi) Portal on the Right to Information (www.rti.gov.in).

(iii) | Website of the Central Information Commission (hitp://cic.gov.in).


--- Page 15 ---
WedldelT

Wee at afte afer, 2005 A wen A care arene Hh qa dept

gaat wa anata & depia A okafta ax Rar ti we ateate aearat a ges”

Tele, Sela Bl AMG Wedel Tene, sere Remy cen TE & Rare A raat
Met age A ata of Tew ita erm

Be head A hen MON aha Hey Ht ae ae Waal A quer aAet F
Fel a Tage wa tl sa acada HM fAwa-arq asa arent & ae wien a
Gaal We ara w fore si sue shit ante, qi eae usa A yon faa aT
aie ferorat Pea-Meat =, uss ast sa aay A sa en-Meawt * ae w aa
faen-faay SINT Ata ON I aX BHA Fl

ste ¢ PR geen ar ater aiaga a Adslan fea A comes var fra

STAT |
| a
we ee)
_ 38 feedh, (eae FFT)
‘fear: 08 AIFaL, 2007 fea

wpiferen Six wfsaror feria,
aifen, ae Mensa aM dete Aas

fe


--- Page 16 ---
Wael wl sway sia, 2005 b sila yaa Ate set &

H- T |

Waal a ara wii pr aE

Gaet ar afer HSAs HT ae Ses aa HT HGR Aedes ele, ATH
ae aad wore A oneRia an sexeqier aS ger det, wera HM HH FAT aa
ada wt we at A ctl & Ra A Hae at A BAIA seen Fl Hoa aR ay
Meaa-aT Ol ataea eta Tas. aM eda at ose & uf ate sear ana A
Tara sent 1 sa sists a ve Wh eee Wore Aiea ar & fore areas A aretha
wl chen wteneal a fadaor A Soe Yaa aH UE Fa 3M FI

Waal_RT F

2. fat of waea A ms ai Get ‘quan’ &1 saat saeeiag sa S aka are,
otada, Woe, $-Ae, Ad, Bore, ve aia, chus, see, ange, afaar, Rai,
HATA, Ae, AS, Hrnst See carat wise F1 saat feet fetch ara S data wat
Guem of ener & fs ate aide acdaa any fel area & seta we a Aa FI

wife & sitet Yaar Hr afer
3. aOR ot feet ata otter & th geen are a Hien € at sa ata
WRN ura suey FU sum fraser A suaey Ft) sa Har A aly TREN &

ur am faa a sueey ofa, aeadait am Ravel ar fetta; atardall ar Ramet &
AN, SECT A Waa Mica Wa ALT; Graal oF Waites Age Aat Maa Si

4. Feet or atte sities & Hata ate went ant quent gio Bet; a
Aaa Fy CISA FLAT, AT Hag ERI SSS WS TAM HI AMM AAT; A BleUlerh
Wal a Sat cal Wea ae B1 Hits h zeta Hae MAH Been wa A a wet z
ot ote wnitrart a ort cee a alae 21


--- Page 17 ---
5. afte at Seber, wart, 20, deat hee o fet sew sdaciae wo a aa
We wer ar ela & TI fer Alt WS Goer Hecger A a Hea feet yw A vest A
aida & faqs sue ere anfe a PeraraRa fear ot Fes

a

6. «Waa Ht We Aeaeaa: Sey BO A Vela Hr Sie 2% erga ae aren Fl seme,
ae fed fae vaso # at as gan MM amgfa A ate oat & sat a
seta StF fraser dear F a sae Reef & char A as afa da M aera
get & at sa BU A Tae ca B Aa an wT Ura Fl

7. «afters & saa Haat aa & anikat wt qaen a afBeer we $1 fas, Fy,
weve sie de etaateatat hr ofera & siccta at aret S freq arate Ay afer
BH ae Weal Hiaa a WS caf a Aaa vara Gea aT HS wane ae fra Sl fx
af, wie Tere fern, tea, Hecht, I WANT Pasa aie & fet Ta Hera ar arene
ant Water oF fom sar $ a aa HT ait & at sa quer A oreeht aed ae eT
Qa aa sitar at) Ca ara H, Ue wafeud sen Rr wan aiken an faa ane & oe
We Weer Ae aS FI

Waa U Be

8. Sites wnMenrey S Geen Fret aT afer atiealite at t1 HOieroa A ae 8 Hh
OF Goer Hr Oat Arai wt fear var & ies Wea B Be wa Fi Set van aOiaaa
a aqge-l A tA age 3 WaT Wroat a arr wanfce F free afar &
wear F Be Wa S fx a, Gareat wt ar 1S aE Ge sah INI HoT & Hiya ak
Aaa REN  secda V Aaa Tae Ar ange wr afta at Heh

9 saat at unt s HN 9 & Hela Be Wa Beene aM at saga a
wma Wot SF Fan aaa H gee wee) ans A aT a HH am Area
WRN h secduad F dala Gear wa Ht Tae ZI

edhe ote Beer sitet

10, See Hroret oh fore adear, Shep wien aRT aaa chedra olen Aeon aitreat at
Aa Mea Use) wa ate wet a sede ale Aue ae varia we feu =
frm cat dag ae wire ft aaase wt suey %] we fa aaa. ee
(wwwatigov.in) TY at Sueree Gl Hailer seus aten Hae aie a ary Alea wet

3


--- Page 18 ---
fy

HEH. Oe sae Hr Gore ay ont F) ale Rect a ote wc & aaa gear

ten eT SARE aT TAT Tet A eos etch & ott Sacer TH cites wTMENTT gh we

wee aren Bae sitet ar aer fere Peer et Mor ar Bw Fe!

 

1, Regret ake Quen afer S amen hr ore & fH ag Wan Arte ae cafHal at
Oban HEI Vals Bi Bie Hs cain soe ferdea fafa wo a aa A sega & at
ae WaT sae IK aka HA Seda ae geen afar A aero a wat! aie
frat aeara aw, agate so a fern cafe wt socer ae aT fete fer oar &
ot ware cee Geer arent Ca cafes ar soy Ae Wel BAT

FUEL HT Boel Fie BW weed

12, waa & on 4 & siaia Gels ate WR aoe Asean, Rearend, waza
anfa & cahi a& waca & few area B) sah afc, tegre WON & aha HO ola
MEM a sear Beene sh vera AS sik BH Geena wl suet agarse we ster fear
el

Fea aieret chy fares

13. ae we amie aiiaaar & said quer We axel Wear & at 3a ale wa
& data hafta ote Gear aart S aids Hea fect aera sa ase A trarhry sey
Ser aaaet rar se 2, A fatwa wo A Haaa Hea Uiew saat! Boe Hat
Sh ERT HW sete AAA A HVT cara wa H ay Va & aad A Nat

Bre Fl Hae, su-asy FN Har su fore ear We, srw faent ant fagw fev av
heat Pera ity Geen ahead & area S at fear a Feet Fl

Weal Ae aT ep

14. HeetHal S sista & Rr ae set Adee Oa H AY, Wet AM a Pika
Wow 10/- SUV (Fa PIT) HiT ua HUT doy dH Hy Anca dees sist H su F as
vifeenry oF ora atreent & ara S Fat] Yow Hr ape aren RAT & Seritant
wwe hegrr Aeren che ae afte a ane WH feat a aa bt VS FA weacta

Hr Sg Wie sey Wa aT cet ART!
, 4


--- Page 19 ---
15. Haare HY Yee Valet aXe A set Teh ara & fore afar You set Ate

Us wet 1 a Yow ow far qa on Hien (yew st arma aT faferaae)
fryeraey, 2005 ERt fra vat tl wet ols Bae aon afakks you aiid aH

ww yes ow ar stdeaad at aa worl Baath t Raita yoo A at”

faratetaa € :-
' @®) asa arrer steer fe ge ued dot (4 aeraT v3 aE) are & Pe
al Sau (2/- Buy);
(@) 38 SER & Sera A oh wr areal aN zea ara Had;
@t)  aget a atsat & fore arafaen are ara crete;

CH) «otisrenat a fatert & fee, uget aoe & fae ws Ye ae 3 se TE
WeaH ve Ui sam Ws & fer uta Vow ar Yow (5/-FUT);

(5) ere saa vatdl A geen var axa & few uct Behe Ham gett cag
BIT (50/-SUT);

() Aaa wa a a aS Gee & fav, WA vara & few faa Aes He vad F
Seront AT werd a at sor via ys |

16. weet Ver & AR ay Ach & sala set ate atdactdiat a fort WER wT Yow
ea Fr arava ae Fl ante, sa ae Tare aM & SN HT da H a a yA
Wega HA Se | saeet H Be fraita 10/- ToT & Yow Hwa sndeayal & atte Tar
& art aren eel ar Ware, Sher aft arate ef, sel Sa ux Hae at aifOiferaa & siceta
ey sda al Are BT CS sda Ht HOTA H said AUS Wa Ae HT KH
ater BT

3idael By Tor

17. Geet aa & few waar ao we fata coq adt & | Wed We are WH
fea at era $1 awit, sdea A sda HT aA aM se aT BT vet fern get

afer! wet aes fi, eclectic areoa A anh ae act yaar A st andes or art

Srp tl Uc Ble uter |

fe


--- Page 20 ---
18. Aaa Alert ae Hl Bee Ara BHAT sar se set F |
se er FeyGeTa

19. aeGrt aes geen arrert @ ae aria & fe ae wm ae arden oma Ba 307

feat & afer san a Gee Ata weary) ae at as Ween cath & saa Heer
tara S Aaa F at Aaa, WS Hat & ura aA H 48 Sel H sar suey Hs
sree 1 ae etre ote guen HAN a ae aa & fH ah aS que Hers a
Wawa & asa Vela vel Al ot Gach al ae daa HY aetna oom | amit, aaa
sedan axa TAT ae aden Ht Oe Hees & aor ae acres oN aT cake
Alaa BOT | de Haan ot athe cen ara Hl Hay ay frarcy st aml

20. We sdan wt HS Fae oa He & fee anda You & afcihea yore Hee
sofea ¢ at weds sk Goer aft, sidan a aoe aed HiRes yor a eh
et AU Haw ENT Her HT ore ae Her ca UR Ht Fae a 1 Hess oie Ae
SRE S KT T/A Ucs Beat H Me Haw, Aaa an wiser & dar Hirani
& vat A sagen We Eni ace aah Hen Sa aac F HUA Bais se Hum sax
ter arrar aera Ser areer ERT VENT Aa aka Ba & | Ue mesa al Weer
ater ent area sr ae HiShrra veri andar an sar sel Has oie & at ede
aes Baer Heat Yaar sae Harel & few sea sel F I

21. Sel, HARGA Yow aa aan set siete %, aer HfaRea You & wrdad h
aay A quer ett at HN Haw EN Yow Aaa & drs Hr Hay ai, SH 30
feet ht sare ar ween & yatta A TN Tar aren, fram ae degra ae Wear
HAG A Fae Srey at Ay aT Ht sich F |

22. aie medra an Geer Hfterd, 30 fear hr safe & sax Her 48 del & aikcn,
oat ot fae et, qa & yeniey W sue fra aa A HAHA Tea & a Ae Ale
Sem fe Gen ct A SH aT fem we Fz

Waa aciet

23. ait staan Hl 30 feat sua 48 de Ay fAuiRa chem, ste of fea a, & afar
Raat vert set Gr orc & HU TE wart FH AS Ban A H_ve ae t al ae vaA
area oifteartt st fe wera oie Geen aitant S Ye A ahve adel %, a aria

6


--- Page 21 ---
a wpa & | Veh aie, sa ana a die fea ah Hay & arat ht seh aiee oe |

ANG Al Yaa valet Heer Hr 30 at Hr car ware et wal & Hwa se ante 4,
Trent dentro Yaar Heart Ht Aaa Hea frets urea ga F |

24, cites unftrenrtt as aretetter onfrerth arcter oreat eet & dhe Peat A raft & attar,,.

MMT soa aa A 45 Rat & afer ade om foes ax ua = |
facies arrest

25, aie atheira ment, fruitka watt & shar anit ox sneer oer ae A arene
Tear & seen anterncal, waa artes urfteedt & aréa a date ae & at ae wes
area wert & fects & athe sar fe athe at aieacal a fers ara a
wit Fam et A 90 fart hr Hai & fay Hegre yee Heater S ura AM anther aK
BHA Fi Hee Tae Hater ar Hr ag ardter a fewafekad Yaa ferka eet aeT:-

G@ #irerecat a ara 3k cat;

(ii) 5H teeta ates een ated ar ara ate car Brats Geta & Pee ante & af
z;

(ii) 3a areer ht, fran fawg aca fr as &, ht Gea, ale we %, aa sear eit;

(iv) athe & fee scared afatca az;

(v) wie atta wash ag aon & foes Ht mS F al srdet Sr fataval, forak
sca Bea six anha ot t am sa Heda ats gan xe aw, faa
aaa rar war a, ara sit wal;

(vi) Ate aS Ursa Ha UWE;

(vii) ae HWA Wea w fers ane;

(viii) HUtereRcal ERT Besa; 3k

Gx) ws 3IN Waa, rah ataeaea arte wl adie ar feta aa & fee us Ache
eI

26. thethey Quel ran at a ae ata A fasafahea qendst dows set uifer:-

(i) Set See HAaT Seas Fr Taeeanatka vicrat raw Rec aris ay as &;

Gi) 3a aearasit hr wicrai, rt ax adem fase var & HN Ree sea Hie A Pater
frat %; 3ix

(ii) athe A daft acarast Hr ah |

be


--- Page 22 ---
ferent

27. aie wis cafes Reet degra ates Bae fleet wt Sa HNO HMMdca Weds BUT g «
H sent & fe ada ale wert ant tar ag afte fergaa aet rer ae F;
sua teger BerrH ote Yer aftremty a see ada a aia wr degre ap Aa
SR sear ares urftreert, shar ot aaron et, at Sire ana HAT anita weet S
wet at fear %; star deer & atte afOiran & aga Sah ERT Hate Pew ae Peet
Geen eaepict at srecdrare wx foo 8; Haar afticaayt F sieatwa Aaa-aat oh Hav
Gay HMA BH VeYeat Sa set fear wear &; Haar se re Ar Nt ay Gore wt
wel ser fore ae Heute caesar t; a se ar & fr sa ae, AH ae As
quer a 1g ¢ ot ae Sea Geen ara A Mera ast HL HaHa Fs |

 

28. degre qe ater ante cer Pravect ar ua ach aoe face A Gear
arena Rearmanea sik ved siete wire yet ates quar Hart a tar & |
IT sia/Reaat wea ae vat At Yaas ach sera HUleteHeal/Renraaeal Tar
Heats ate Gae He mw te ates after Brea cect aie ox face fear a7,
ERT Wega fer ae aradeit or fetter ah atte oF feelr a awe F | ale
sree sitet staat Rearear ox Freie aa B Gee vat HM Yaas HT wat ata F at
Gras ht atta & wa 8 oa Ma Giefta Rat cect ae alerencal seer Rrra
wy gaas a athe st Ween sor i ae Heed /Renaaneal & fads a fase &
ae Gras & aay cag sera waa waar & aeaqa A suv ted t a Hquieaar
Wat F |

ecIgyy aqnse

29. HE AecMel aaweci, Sraad quer a san dalla Aecayel Geen fafea F,
% ud ara feu ae #:-

(i) SRA GN Bt Ae (http://indiaimage.nic.in).
(ii) Gear or Hear Bath wea (www.rti.gov.in).
iii) hegre Foe Hratet Fy AqaiSc (http://cic.gov.in).

8
