
--- Page 1 ---
NO.1/3/2008-IR
Government of India
Ministry of Personnel, P.G. and Pensions
Department of Personnel & Training
*****
New Delhi, Dated the 25th April, 2008
Guidelines for the Officers designated as first appellate
authority under the RTI Act, 2005.
*****
The undersigned is directed to say that the Central Public Information
Officer (CPIO) of a public authority is responsible to supply correct and
complete information to an information seeker under the Right to Information
Act, 2005 within the spet:ified time. It is possible that a CPIO may not act as per
provisions of the Act or an applicant may not otherwise be satisfied with the
decision of the CPIO. The Act contains provision of two appeals to tide over
such situations. While the first appeal lies within the public authority itself, the
second appeal lies with the Central Information Commission. The Central
Information Commission (Appeal Procedure) Rules, 2005 govern the procedure
for deciding appeals by the Commission. The First Appellate Authority is,
however, required to dispose off the appeals received by him in the light of the
provisions of the Act and keeping in view the principles of natural justice. A
Guide has been prepared for the First Appellate Authorities, a copy of which is
enclosed as Annexure. It is expected that it would help them perform their
duties effectively.
2. All the Ministries I Departments etc. are requested to bring the contents
ofthe Guide to the notice of all concerned. ~.
L~~\
(K.G"ve~
Director
Tel: 2309.2158
To
1. All Ministries I Departments of Govt. of India
2. Union Public Service Commission / Lok Sabha Secretariiat /
Rajya Sabha Secretariat I Cabinet Secretariat / Central
Vigilance Commission / President's Secretariat I Vice-

--- Page 2 ---
President's Secretariat / Prime Minister's Office / Planning
Commission
3. Staff Selection Commission, CGO Complex, Lodi Road, New
Delhi.
4. Office of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India, 10,
Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi.
5. Central Information Commission/State Information
Commissions.
The guidelines contained in the Annexure apply mutatis
mutandis to the First Appellate Authorities under the States.
The State Governments may like to issue similar guidelines for
their First Appellate Authorities.

--- Page 3 ---
Annc~
(OM No.l/3/2008-IR dated 25th April, 2008)
Guide for the First AQPellate Authorities
It is the responsibility of the Central Public Information Officer (ePIO)
of a public authority to supply correct and complete information within the
specified time to any person seeking information under the RTI Act, 2005.
There are possibilities that a CPIO may not act as per provisions of the Act or
an applicant may not otherwise be satisfied with the decision of the CPIO, The
Act contains provision of two appeals to tide over such situations. The first
appeal lies within the public authority itself which is made to an officer
designated as the First Appellate Authority by the concerned public authority.
The First Appellate Authority happens to be an officer senior in rank to the
CPIO. The second appeal lies with the Central Information Commission. The
Central Information Commission (Appeal Procedure) Rules, 2005 govern the
procedure for deciding appeals by the Commission. The Guidelines contained
in this document are meant for the First Appellate Authorities.
2. In order to perform his/her duties effectively, the Appellate Authority
should study the Act carefully and understand its provisions correctly. This
document explains some of the important aspects of the Act which a First
Appellate Authority should, in particular, be conversant with.
What is Information
3. Information is any material in any form. It includes records, documents,
memos, e-mails, opinions, advices, press releases, circulars, orders, logbooks,
contracts, reports, papers, samples, models, data material held in any electronic
form. It also includes information relating to any private body which can be
accessed by the public authority under any law for the time being in force.

--- Page 4 ---
Right to Information under the Act
4. A citizen has a right to seek such information from a public authority
which is held by the public authority or which is held under its control. This
right includes inspection of work, documents and records; taking notes, extracts
or certified copies of documents or records; and taking certified samples of
material held by the public authority or held under the control of the public
authority.
5. The Act gives the citizens aright to information at par with the Members of
Parliament and the Members of State Legislatures. According to the Act, the
infonnation which cannot be denied to the Parliament or a State Legislature,
shall not be denied to any person.
6. A citizen has a right to obtain an information in the form of diskettes,
floppies, tapes, video cassettes or in any other electronic mode or through print-
outs provided such information is already stored in a computer or in any other
device from which the information may be transferred to diskettes etc.
7. The information to the applicant should ordinarily be provided in the
form in which it is sought. However, if the supply of information sought in a
particular form would disproportionately divert the resources of the public
authority or may cause harm to the safety or preservation of the records, supply
of information in that form may be denied.
8. The Act gives the right to information only to the citizens of India. It does
not make provision for giving information to Corporations, Associations,
Companies etc. which are legal entities/persons, but not citizens. However, if
an application is made by an employee or office-bearer of any Corporation,
Association, Company, NOO etc. indicating his name and such employee/office
bearer is a citizen of India, information may be supplied to him/her. In such
cases, it would be presumed that.a citizen has sought information at the address
of the Corporation etc.

--- Page 5 ---
9. Only such information is required to be supplied under the Act which
already exists and is held by the public authority or held under the control of the
public authority. It is beyond the scope of the Act to create information;,or to
interpret information; or to solve the problems raised by the applicants; or to
furnish replies to hypothetical questions.
Information Exempted From Disclosure
10. Sub-section (1) of section 8 and section 9 of the Act enumerate the
categories of information which is exempt from disclosure. Sub-section (2) of
section 8, however, provides that information exempted under sub-section (1) or
exempted under the Official Secrets Act, 1923can be disclosed if public interest in
disclosure overweighs the harm to the protected interest. Further, sub-section (3)
of section 8 provides that information exempt from disclosure under sub-section
(1), except as provided in clauses (a), (c) and (i) thereof, would cease to be
exempted after 20 years from the date of occurrence of the related event etc.
11. It may be noted that section 8(3) of the Act does not require the public
authorities to retain records for indefinite period. The records should be retained
as per the record retention schedule applicable to the concerned public authority.
Information generated in a file may survive in the form of an OM or a letter or in
any other form even after destruction of the file/record. The Act requires
furnishing of information so available after the lapse of 20 years even if such
information was exempt from disclosure under sub-section(l) of Section 8. It
means that the information which, in normal course, is exempt from disclosure
under sub-section(1) of Section 8 of the Act, would cease to be exempted if 20
years have lapsed after occurrence of the incident to which the information relates.
However, the following types of information would continue to be exempt and
there would be no obligation, even after lapse of 20 years, to give any citizen-
(i) information disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the
sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or

--- Page 6 ---
economic interest of the State, relation with foreign state or lead to
incitement of an offence;
(ii) information the disclosure of which would cause a breach of privilege of
Parliament or State Legislature; or
(iii) Cabinet papers including records of deliberations of the Council of
Ministers, Secretaries and other Officers subject to the conditions given
inproviso to clause (i) of sub-section(1)of Section 8 of the Act.
Right to Information Vis-a-Vis Other Acts
12. The RTI Act has over-riding effect vis-a-vis other laws inasmuch as the
provisions of the RTI Act would have effect notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in the Official Secrets Act, 1923, and any other
law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of
any law other than the RTI Act.
Fee for Seeking Information
13. An applicant, along with his application, is required to pay a sum of
Rs.I0/- as application fee in cash or by way of a demand draft or a banker's
cheque or an Indian Postal Order payable to the Accounts Officer of the public
authority. The applicant may also have to pay additional fee, as prescribed by
the Right to Information (Regulation of Fee and Cost) Rules, 2005 for supply of
information as given below:
(a) rupees two (Rs. 2/-) for each page ( in A-4 or A-3 size paper) created or
copied;
(b) actual charge or cost price of a copy in larger size paper;
(c) actual cost or price for samples or models;
(d) for inspection of records, no fee for the first hour; and a fee of rupees five
(Rs.5/-) for each subsequent hour (or fraction thereof);

--- Page 7 ---
(e) for information provided in diskette or floppy rupees fifty (Rs.50/-) per
diskette or floppy; and
(t) for information provided 111 printed form at the prIce fixed for such
publication or rupees two per page of photocopy for extracts from the
publication.
14. If the applicant belongs to 'below poverty line (BPLr category, he/she is
not required to pay any fee. However, he/she should submit a proof in support
of his/her claim to belong to the below poverty line. The application not
accompanied by the prescribed fee of Rs.l 0/- or proof of the applicant's
belonging to below poverty line, as the case may be, shall not be a valid
application under the Act and, therefore, does not entitle the applicant to get
information.
15. It may be noted that where the CPIO decides that the information shall be
provided on payment of fee in addition to the application fee, the CPIO
IS
required, inter-alia, to inform the applicant:
(i) the details of further fees required to be paid;
(ii) the calculations made to arrive at the amount of fees asked for;
Contents and Format of Application
16. An applicant making request for information is not required to give any
reason for requesting the information or any other personal details except those
that may be necessary for contacting him. Also, the Act or the Rules do not
prescribe any format of application for seeking information. Therefore, the
applicant should not be asked to givejustification for seeking information or to
give details of hisjob etc. or to submit application in any particular form.
Transfer of Application
17. If the subject matter of the application concerns any other public
authority, it should be transferred to that public authority. If only a part of the
application concerns the other public authority, a copy of the application may be
sent to that public authority, clearly specifying the part which relates to that

--- Page 8 ---
public authority. While transferring the application or sending a copy thereof,
the concerned public authority should be informed that the application fee has
been received. The applicant should also be informed about the transfer of his
application and the particulars of the public authority to whom the application
or a copy thereof has been sent.
18. Transfer of application or part thereof: as the case may be, should be
made as soon as possible and in any case within five days from the date of
receipt of the application. If a CPIO transfers an application after five days from
the receipt of the application, he would be responsible for delay in disposing of
the application to the extent of number of days which he takes in transferring
the application beyond 5 days.
19. The CPIO of the public authority to whom the application is transferred,
should not refuse acceptance of transfer of the application on the ground that it
was not transferred to him within 5 days.
20. A public authority may designate as many CPIOs for it, as it may deem
necessary. It is possible that in a public authority with more than one CPIO, an
application is received by the CPIO other than the concerned CPIO. In such a
case, the CPIO receiving the application should transfer it to the concerned
CPIO immediately, preferably the same day. Time period of five days for
transfer of the application applies only when the application is transferred from
one public authority to another public authority and not for transfer from one
CPIO to another in the same public authority.
Supply of Information
21. The answering CPIO should check whether the information sought or a
part thereof is exempt from disclosure under section 8 or Section 9 of the Act.
Request in respect of the part of the application which is so exempt may be
rejected and rest of the information should be provided immediately or after
receipt of additional fees, as the case may be.

--- Page 9 ---
Supply of Part Information by Severance
22. Where a request is received for access to information which is exempt
from disclosure but a part of which is not exempt and such part can be severed
in such a way that the severed part does not contain exempt information then,
access to that part of the information/record may be provided to the applicant.
Where access is granted to a part of the record in such a way, the Central Public
Information Officer should inform the applicant that the information asked for is
exempt from disclosure and that only part of the record is being provided, after
severance, which is not exempt from disclosure. While doing so, he should give
the reasons for the decision, including any findings on any material question of
fact, referring to the material on which those findings were based. The CPIO
should take the approval of appropriate authority before supply of information
in such a case and should inform the name and designation of the person giving
the decision to the applicant also.
Time Period for Supply of Information
23. The CPIO should supply the information within thirty days of the receipt
of the request. Where the information sought for concerns the life or liberty of a
person, the same should be provided within forty-eight hours of the receipt of
the request.
24. Every public authority is required to designate an officer at each sub-
divisional level or other sub-district level as a Central Assistant Public
Information Officer (CPAIO) to receive the applications or appeals under the
Act for forwarding the same to the Central Public Information Officer or the
first Appellate Authority or the Central Information Commission, as the case
may be. If request for information is received through the CAPIO, the
information may be provided within 35 days of receipt of application by the
CAPIO in normal course and 48 hours plus 5 days in case the information
sought concerns the life or liberty of aperson.

--- Page 10 ---
25. In case of an application transferred from one public authority to another
public authority reply should be provided by the concerned public authority
within 30 days of the receipt of the application by that public authority in
normal course and within 48 hours in case the information sought concerns the
life or liberty of a person.
26. The Central Public Information Officers of the intelligence and security
organisations specified in the Second Schedule of the Act may receive
applications seeking information pertaining to allegations of corruption and
human rights violations. Information in respect of allegations of violation of
human rights, which is provided only after the approval of the Central
Information Commission, should be provided within forty-five days from the
date of the receipt of request. Time limit prescribed for supplying information
in regard to allegations of corruption is the same as in other cases.
27. Where the applicant is asked to pay additional fee, the period intervening
between the dispatch of the intimation about payment of fee and the payment of
fee by the applicant shall be excluded for the purpose of calculating the period
of reply. The following table shows the maximum time which may be taken to
I
dispose off the applications in different situations:
I
Situation Time limit for disposing off
Sr.
No.
applicatio
1.
Supply of information in normal course. 30 days
2. Supply of information if it concerns the life ,48 hours
~
or liberty of a person ~
3. Supply of information if the application is 05 days shall be added to the
received through CAPIO. time period indicated at Sr.
No. 1and 2.
--
4. Supply ·of information if application/request
is received after transfer from another public
authority:
(a) In normal course (a) Within 30 days of the
receipt of the application
~ by the conce.med public I

--- Page 11 ---
authority.
(b) In case the information concerns the life (b) Within 48 hours of
or liberty of a person. receipt of the application
by the concerned public
authority.
Supply of information by organizations
specified in the Second Schedule:
(a) If information relates to allegations of (a) 45 days from the receipt
violation of human rights. of application.
(b) In case information relates to allegations (b) Within 30 days of the
of corru tion. receipt of application._
Supply of information if it relates to third Should be provided after
party and the third party has treated it as following the procedure
confidential. given in para 32 to 36 of
! these guidelines.
Supply of information where the applicant is rhe period intervening
asked to pay additional fee. I between informing the
applicant about additional
fee and the payment of fee
J by the applicant shall be.
excluded for calculating the
I
_______ eriod of reply. _
the prescribed period, the Central Public Information Officer shall be deemed to
have refused the request. It is pertinent to note that if a public authority fails to
comply with the specified time limit, the information to the concerned applicant
would have to be provided free of charge.
First Appeal
29. The information sought by an applicant should either be supplied to him
or his application should be rejected within the time prescribed by the Act. If
additional fee need be charged from the applicant, communication in this regard
should be sent to him within the time limit prescribed for sending information.
If the applicant does not receive information or decision about rejection of
request or communication about payment of additional fee within the specified

--- Page 12 ---
time, he can make an appeal to the First Appellate Authority. Appeal can also
be made if the applicant is aggrieved by the decision of the CPIO regarding
supply of information orthe quantum of fee decided by the CPIO.
Appeal in relation to Third Party Information
30. Third party in relation to the Act means a person other than the citizen
who has made request for information. Any public authority other than the
public authority to whom the request has been made shall also be included in
the definition of third party.
31. It may be noted that information including commercial confidence, trade
secrets or intellectual property, the disclosure of which would harm the
competitive position of a third party, is exempt from disclosure. Section 8(1)(d)
requires that such information should not be disclosed unless the competent
authority is satisfied that larger public interest warrants the disclosure of such
information.
32. If an applicant seeks any information which relates to or has been supplied
by a third party and that third party has treated that infonnation as confidential, the
Central Public Information Officer should consider whether the information should
be disclosed or not. The guiding principle in such cases should be that except in
the case of trade or commercial secrets protected by law, disclosure may be
allowed if the public interest in disclosure outweighs in importance any possible
harm or injury to the interests of such third party. However, procedure as given
below should be followed before disclosing such information. It may be noted that
this procedure need be followed only when the third party has treated the
information as confidential.
33. If the CPIO intends to disclose the information, he should within five
days from the receipt of the application, give a written notice to the third party
that the information has been sought by the applicant under the RTI Act and that
he intends to disclose the information. He should request the third party to
make a submission in writing or orally, regarding whether the information

--- Page 13 ---
should be disclosed. The third party should be given a time of ten days, from
the date of receipt of the notice by him, to make representation against the
proposed disclosure, if any.
34. The Central Public Information Officer should make a decision regarding
disclosure of the information keeping in view the submission of the third party.
Such a decision should be taken within forty days from the receipt of the request
for information. After taking the decision, the CPIO should give a notice of his
decision to the third party in writing. The notice given to the third party should
include a statement that the third party is entitled to prefer an appeal under
section 19against the decision.
35. The third party can prefer an appeal to the First Appellate Authority
against the decision made by the Central Public Information Officer within
thirty days from the date of the receipt of notice. If not satisfied with the
decision of the First Appellate Authority, the third party can prefer the second
appeal to the Central Information Commission.
36. If an appeal has been filed by the third party against the decision of the
CPIO to disclose the third party information, the information should not be
disclosed till the appeal is decided.
Time Limit for Filing of First Appeal
37. The first appeal may be made within 30 days from the date of expiry of
the prescribed period or from the receipt of communication from the CPIO. If
the First Appellate Authority is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by
sufficient cause from filing the appeal, the appeal may be admitted after 30 days
also.
Disposal of Appeal
38. Deciding appeals under the RTI Act is a quasi-judicial function. It is,
therefore, necessary that the appellate authority should see to it that thejustice is
not only done but it should also appear to have been done. In order to do so, the

--- Page 14 ---
order passed by the appellate authority should be a speaking order glvmg
justification for the decision arrived at.
Time Limit for Disposal of Appeal
39. The appeal should be disposed off within 30 days of receipt of the
appeal. In exception cases, the Appellate Authority may take 45 days for its
disposal. However, in cases where disposal of appeal takes more than 30 days,
the Appellate Authority should record in writing the reasons for such delay.
40. If an appellate authority comes to a conclusion that the appellant should
be supplied information in addition to what has been supplied to him by the
CPIO, he may either (i) pass an order directing the CPIO to give such
information to the appellant; or (ii) he himself may give information to the
appellant while disposing off the appeal. In the first case the appellate authority
should ensure that the information ordered by him to be supplied is supplied to
the appellant immediately. It would, however, be better if the appellate
authority chooses the second course of action and he himself furnishes the
information alongwith the order passed by him inthe matter.
41. If, in any case, the CPIO does not implement the order passed by the
appellate authority and the appellate authority feels that intervention of higher
authority is required to get his order implemented, he should bring the matter to
the notice of the officer in the public authority competent to take action against
the CPIO. Such competent officer shall take necessary action so as to ensure
implementation of the provisions of the RTI Act.