
--- Page 1 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA
DRAFT RULES AND REGULATION OF
BS – MS DUAL DEGREE PROGRAMME
IN
PHYSICS,CHEMISTRY AND MATHEMATICS
2013-2014
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 1

--- Page 2 ---
Academic Regulations for BS- MS Dual Degree Programme in Physics,
Chemistry and mathematics
1. ORDINANCE
1.1 The provisions of these regulations shall be applicable to all 4years BS &5 years MS
programmes offered by the Institute.
1.2 A student becomes eligible for the award of the BS-MS dual degree after fulfilling all the
academic and non-academic requirements prescribed by the Senate of the Institute.
1.3 Notwithstanding all that has been stated in the regulations, the Senate has the right to
modify/relax any of the regulations from time to time.
REGULATIONS FOR THE BS- MS Dual Degree Programme
2. ACADEMIC CALENDAR
2.1 Each academic session is divided into two semesters of approximately 18 weeks duration:
Nan odd IsemTester (Ju ly–ADecembeGr) and anA even semRester (JaTnuary–AJune). LA
2.2 Classes of all the semester will start at 9.30 am and end at 5.30 pm with break in between.
The institute follows 5-day week.
2.3 The senate approves schedule of academic activities for a session inclusive of dates of
registration, mid-semester and end-semester examinations, inter-semester breaks etc. All
these shall be laid down in the Academic Calendar for the session.
3. ADMISSION
3.1 Admission to NIT, Agartala is made in accordance with the instructions received from the
Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD), Government of India from time to
time subject to approval of Senate. Seats are reserved for candidates belonging to
scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, physically handicapped candidates and children of
defense personnel, other backward communities and other minorities as per the guidelines
issued from MHRD.
3.2 Admission to the course is made in the odd semester of each session at the first year level on
the basis of score of the candidate in Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) conducted by the
Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) or performance in the admission test to be
conducted by the Institute. Additional channel of taking lateral entry students through
JAM should be explored.
3.3 If, at any time after admission, it is found that a candidate has not fulfilled all the
requirements stipulated in the offer of admission, the Dean of Academic Affairs may
revoke the admission of the candidate and report the matter to the Senate.
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 2

--- Page 3 ---
3.4 The Institute reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student and ask him/her to
discontinue his/her studies at any stage of his/her career on the grounds of unsatisfactory
academic performance as per clause or indiscipline conduct.
Fee Structure:
Sl. Particulars First Semester Fee 2nd, 4th, 6th ,8th and 3rd ,5th ,7th and 9th
No. (Rs.) 10th Semester Fee Semester
( Rs.) Fee ( Rs.)
1. Admission 1000.0 0.0 0.0
1 Tuition fee 1000.00 1000.0 1000.0
All other fee 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0
2 Institute Development 5000.00 0.0 0.0
fee (one time)
Laboratory Fee 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0
(Physics/Chemistry)
3 Medical Insurance and 1200.0 0.0 1200.0
OPD facility fees (per
anuum)
4. Caution Money 2000.0 0.0 0.0
(Refundable)
RF ID fee 200.0 0.0 0.0
5. Grade Card 500.00 500.00 500.00
Total 12900.0 3500.0 4700.0
4. RESIDENCE
4.1 All students shall be required to reside in and be members of the hostels to which they are
assigned at the time of registration. Only in exceptional circumstances a student may be
permitted to change from one hostel to another.
4.2 Under special circumstances, the Director/Dean of Academic Affairs may permit a student
to reside with his/her Parent/Guardian in the Institute Campus or within a reasonable
distance from the Institute. Such a student shall however be attached to a hostel and will
be required to pay seat rent according to rules and Hostel establishment charges fixed by
the Institute. However, this permission may be withdrawn at the discretion of the Institute,
at any time considered appropriate by the Director/Dean (Academic), without assigning
any reason.
4.3 Married student is to be treated as normal student for the hostel accommodation.
4.4 All students must abide by the rules and regulations of the hostel as may be framed from
time to time by the Board of Hostel Management with the approval of Senate.
IT AGARTALA
5. ATTENDANCE
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 3

--- Page 4 ---
5.1 It is expected that all the students will attend all the lecture, tutorial, laboratory, practical
and workshop classes in each subject. A student, will not be allowed to appear at the Mid
/End semester examination if the attendance falls below 75% in a subject and he/she will
be awarded (Fail) “FA” grade in that subject.
In Extra-Academic Activities (EAC), i.e., NCC, NSS, NSO etc. a student must attend at
least 75% of the total classes. The students are also to attend 75% of classes in camps and
some other activities/ programmes notified from time to time.
5.2 Leave of Absence
(a) If the period of leave is for a short duration (less than two weeks), prior application for
leave shall have to be submitted to the Head of the Department concerned stating fully
the reasons of the leave along with supporting document(s). Such leave will be
granted by the Head of the Department.
(b) Absence for a period not exceeding two weeks in a semester due to sickness or any
other unavoidable reason for which prior application could not be made by the student
may be condoned by the Head of the Department provided he/she is satisfied with the
explanation.
(c) If the period of absence exceeds two weeks, prior application for grant of leave will
have to be submitted to the Dean of Academic Affairs with supporting documents
through the Head of the Department in each case. The decision to grant leave shall be
taken by the Dean of Academic Affairs on the recommendation of the Head of the
Department.
(d) The Dean of Academic Affairs may, on receipt of an application also decide whether
the student be asked to withdraw from the course for that particular semester because
of long absence.
(e) The leave of absence as per paras 5.2 (a) to (c) will not be condoned for attendance.
5.3 It will be the responsibility of the student to intimate the warden of the hostel in which
he/she is residing, and the concerned instructor(s) about his/her absence before availing
the leave.
5.4 In exceptional circumstances, the Dean of Academic Affairs in consultation with the
Chairman, Senate may relax any of the above requirements.
6. CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINE
6.1 The conduct of the students inside and outside the premises of the Institute shall be befitting
the students of an institution of national importance.
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 4

--- Page 5 ---
6.2 As per the order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, ragging in any form is banned.
Acts of ragging will be considered as a gross indiscipline and will be severely dealt with.
6.3 The following acts of omission and/or commission on the part of any student(s) shall
constitute gross violation of the code of conduct and will invoke disciplinary measures:
(a) Ragging
(b) Lack of courtesy and decorum; indecent behavior anywhere within or outside the campus.
(c) Willful damage or stealthy removal of any property/belongings of the Institute/Hostel or
of fellow students.
(d) Possession, consumption or distribution of alcoholic drinks or any kind of
hallucinogenic drugs.
(e) Mutilation or unauthorized possession of library books.
(f) Noisy and unseemly behavior, disturbing studies of fellow students.
(g) Hacking in computer systems (such as entering other person’s area without prior
NIT AGARTALA
permission, manipulation and/or damage of computer hardware and software etc.)
(h) Any other act of gross indiscipline.
Commensurate with the gravity of the offence, the punishment may be reprimand, fine,
expulsion from the hostel, debarment from an examination, rustication for a specified
period or even outright expulsion from the Institute.
6.4 For an offence committed in (a) a hostel (b) a Department or in a classroom and (c)
elsewhere, the Warden, the Head of the Department and the Dean of Student Affairs,
respectively, shall have the authority to reprimand or impose fine.
All cases involving punishment other than reprimand shall be reported to the Chairman,
Students Disciplinary Committee.
6.5 All major acts of indiscipline, which may have serious implications on the general body of
students, and/or which may warrant a uniform and more formalized nature of
investigation, shall be handled by the Students Disciplinary Committee, appointed by the
Senate.
6.6 Cases of adoption of unfair means in an examination shall be reported to the Dean of
Academic Affairs for taking appropriate action. The action will be as follows :-
If any student is found adopting unfair means in and out-side the Examination Hall he/she
shall be expelled for the examination(s) in which he/ she is found adopting unfair means.
6.7 In the event of a major punishment (i.e. academic suspension and or rustication from the
institute) , the aggrieved party shall have the right to appeal to Chairman, Senate.
7. COURSE STRUCTURE
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 5

--- Page 6 ---
7.1 Teaching of the courses shall be reckoned in credits. Credits are assigned to the courses
based on the following general pattern:
1(one) credit for each lecture period of one hour.
1(one) credit for each tutorial period of one hour.
2(two) credits for each Laboratory or Practical or Project session of three hours.
7.2 In order to qualify for a BS-MS dual degree programme of the Institute, a student is
required to complete the credit requirement as prescribed in the curriculum for a particular
programme. The minimum credit requirements for a BS programme will be 140 and
maximum credit requirements is160. The minimum credit requirements for a MS
programme will be 180 and a maximum credit requirement is 200.
7.3 No semester will normally have more than 25 credits (including theory laboratory and
seasonal) .
7.4 In addition to the prescribed credit requirement a student shall have to complete the
requirements of Extra Academic Activities (EAA) in one of the first 4 semesters.. Students
will be awarded grades in EAA, which will be recorded in the Grade Card in which a
particular students registers for the same but not taken into account for computing the
SGPA and the CGPA.
7.5 The course work requirements may be broadly divided into following main groups of
subjects:
(i) Humanities and Social Sciences
(ii) Basic Computer Sciences
(iii) Environmental Sciences
7.6 The total course package for a department consists of the following components:
(i) Institutional Core subjects
(ii) Departmental Core subjects
(iii) Departmental Elective subjects
(iv) Institute Elective subjects
(v) Relevant elective offered by the other department subject to approval of parent
department.
(vi) Interdisciplinary elective (jointly taken by the different department).
7.7 Every BS-MS dual degree programme will have a curriculum and syllabi for the courses
approved by the Senate. DPPC will discuss and recommend the syllabi of all the post
graduate courses offered by the Department from time to time before sending the same to
the Board of Post-Graduate Studies (BPGS). The BPGS will consider the proposals
from the Departments and make recommendations to the Senate for consideration and
approval.
7.8 Medium of instruction, examination and project will be in English.
NIT AGARTALA
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 6

--- Page 7 ---
7.9 The curriculum of an individual Department may include industrial/ R&D training up to 9
weeks for every postgraduate student. Industrial/ R&D training is to be satisfactorily
completed before a student is declared eligible for the degree. The curriculum for an
individual Department will show a credit allocation for industrial training. Normally
industrial training will be arranged during the summer vacation immediately following the
sixth semester of studies.
7.10 Faculty Advisor: To help the students in planning their courses of study and getting
general advice on the academic programme, personality development, career planning and
welfare, the concerned Department as far as possible will assign Faculty Advisor(s) for
each batch of students. In the first year the Dean of Academic Affairs shall assign Faculty
Advisors.
8. REGISTRATION
8.1 Every student is required to register for the approved courses through the Faculty Advisor
at the commencement of each semester on the day fixed for such registration and notified
in the Academic Calendar.
8.2 Students who do not register on the day announced for the purpose may be permitted late
registration up to the notified day in Academic Calendar on payment of an additional fee
on the following conditions:-
• Registration in any semester shall be allowed up to a period of 7 (seven) days beyond the
specified date of registration with a fine of Rs.1,000/- (one thousand).
• Registration in any semester shall also be allowed up to a period of 7 (seven) days after
the expiry of first 7 (seven) days beyond the specified date of registration with a fine of
Rs.5,000/- (five thousand).
• There shall be no registration after the expiry of 14(fourteen) days beyond the specified
date of registration.
• This shall however not be applicable to the students who register on receipt of bank loan
or in the case of exigency such as death of any family member provided the matter of bank
loan or expiry of any family member is communicated to Dean(Academic) with in
3(three) days after the end of last date of registration.
8.3 Only those students will be permitted to register in the next semester who have
(a) Cleared all Institute, Hostel and Library dues and fines (if any) of the previous semesters
(b) Paid all required advance payments of Institute and Hostel dues for the current semester,
and
(c) Cleared the minimum academic requirement.
(d) Has not been debarred from registering on any specific ground.
8.4 During registration following conditions must be fulfilled:
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 7

--- Page 8 ---
(a) A student must pass all the 1st and 2nd semester courses before registering for the 5th
semester courses. Similarly 3rd and 4th semester courses should be passed before
registering for the 7th semester and 5th and 6th semester courses should be passed before
registering for the 9th semester and so on.
(b) Normally, the number of credits registered for during a semester should not be less than
15. The total credit for the whole programme should not be less than 160 for BS and
should not be less than 180 for MS. The L-T-P loading for a semester should not exceed
25 contact hours per week. Under special circumstances the Dean (Academic) may permit
a student to register for more or less credits in a semester.
8.5 (a) Students obtaining grade ‘F’ in any theory/Practical subject in any semester may clear it
by appearing at the supplementary examinations to be held at the beginning of even
semester within one week of the commencement of the semester.during summer/parallel
examination.mer vacation/ parallel exam.
(b) In case of failure in Extra Academic Activities the student will have to re-register for it
in the appropriate semester of the next academic session.
8.6 A student who obtains an SGPA less than 6.5 with grade ‘P’ in some subjects may be
permitted by the Dean of Academic Affairs on the recommendations of the Controller of
Examinations and the concerned department to appear at the examination for improvement
in 3 subject(s) to the maximum in which subjects the student has got at least ‘P’ grade. A
student obtaining ‘F’ or ‘FA’ grade in any subject will not be allowed to appear at
examination in any subject for improvement. However a student will be allowed to appear
in examination for improvement in 3 subjects covering both the semesters of a particular
academic year only. He/She should apply through faculty advisor and DPPC and should
pay the requisite fee as per institute rules. The students passing in improvement
examinations will be awarded a grade just below the grade obtained by them in the
examination in the manner given below:
Grade obtained in the Grade to be awarded
Improvement
Examination
EX A
A B
B C
C D
D P
P P
F F
8.7 A student will be allowed to appear at parallel and supplementary examination in 3 subjects
to the maximum. A student having a ‘FA’ grade in any subject will be allowed to appear
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 8

--- Page 9 ---
at the examination after attending required number of classes of that subject with the
regular batch.
9. SUPPLEMENTARY AND PARALLEL EXAMINATION
9.1 Students having FA grade (fail due to shortage of attendance) in subject(s) will be allowed
to sit for parallel examination after attending 75% of classes of parallel batch and on
payment of requisite fee as per Institute Rule. The students can appear at back-paper
examination in maximum 3 subjects in an academic session.
Students having F grade in subject(s) should clear his/her back-paper in parallel
examination without attending any classes on payment of requisite fee as per Institute
Rule.
The issue of awarding grades to the students who will be passing in back-papers and
papers of supplementary examination will be awarded a grade just lower than the grade
actually obtained in such examinations. This will however not affect the students who
will obtain P grade in back-paper examinations and supplementary examination. The
grades will be allowed in the following manner:-
Grade obtained in the Grade to be awarded
Supplementary
Examination
EX A
A B
B C
C D
D P
P P
F F
9.2 The schedule of supplementary examination during the summer vacation will be announced
by the Controller of Examinations at the end of even semester examination. A student will
have to register for parallel/supplementary/improvement examination by paying the
prescribed fee as per Institute Rule within the stipulated time to be announced by the
Controller of Examinations.
9.3 The total number of contact hours for any parallel examination for the students having FA
grade will be the same as in the regular course. The assessment procedure in the parallel
examination will also be similar to the procedure for a regular semester course.
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 9

--- Page 10 ---
10. DURATION OF THE PROGRAMME
10.1 Normally a student should complete all the requirements for M.S programme in ten
semesters and B.S programme in eight semesters. However, academically weaker students
who do not fulfill some of the requirements in their first attempt and have to repeat them
in subsequent semester(s) may be permitted up to 14 consecutive semesters (from the first
semester registration) for M. S and 12 semesters for B. S to complete all the requirements
of the degree.
However, if a student is granted a withdrawal for one or more semesters on medical
ground the withdrawn semester(s) will be counted towards the maximum duration of stay
at the Institute.
10.2 In case a student fails to complete the M.S course with in the maximum limit of 14
semesters and B.S course with in the maximum limit of 12 semesters the case will be
decided separately with the approval of the Chairman SENATE.
11. TEMPORARY WITHDRAWAL FROM THE INSTITUTE
11.1 A student who has been admitted to a BS-MS programme of the Institute may be
permitted to withdraw temporarily from the Institute on the ground of prolonged illness or
grave calamity in the family for a period of one semester or more, provided:
(a) He/she applies to the Institute within at least 6 weeks of the commencement of the
semester or from the date he/she last attended his/her classes whichever is later, stating
fully the reasons for withdrawal together with supporting documents and endorsement of
his/her guardian.
(b) The Institute is satisfied that, counting the period of withdrawal, the student is likely to
complete his/her requirements of the BS or MS degree as the case may be within the time
limits specified in para 10 above.
(c) There are no outstanding dues or demands of the Institute/ Hostel/ Library/NCC/
NIT AGARTALA
11.2 A student who has been granted temporary withdrawal from the Institute under the
provisions of para 11.1 will be required to pay fees/charges (except tuition fees and hostel
dues) till such time as his/her name is on the Roll List. However, fees once paid will not
be returned.
11.3 Normally, a student will be permitted only three such temporary withdrawal during his/her
tenure as a student of the BS-MS programme.
12. RESTRICTION/TERMINATION FROM THE PROGRAMME
12.1. A student is required to leave the Institute on the following grounds:
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 10

--- Page 11 ---
If at the end of any two semesters (one academic year) a student has scored “F” and “FA”
grade in 4 (four) or more theory and practical subjects, he/she will not be permitted to
register for the next semester subjects and will have to register for those subjects in which
s/he scored “F” grades in the first two semesters.
(a) If a student is absent for more than 6 (six) weeks in a semester without sanctioned leave
his/her name will be struck off the rolls.
(b) A student may also be required to leave the Institute on disciplinary grounds on the
recommendations of the Disciplinary Committee.
13. GRADING SYSTEM
13.1 Based on the performance of a student, each student is awarded a final letter grade in each
subject at the end of the semester. The institute follows an absolute grading system and
has separate scale for theoretical and practical subject. The letter grades and the
corresponding grade points are as follows:
THEORETICAL SUBJECT
% of marks Grades Points
90 and above EX 10
80-89 A 09
70-79 B 08
60-69 C 07
50-59 D 06
40-49 P 05
Below 40 F --
PRACTICAL SUBJECT
% of marks Grades Points
90 and above EX 10
80-89 A 09
70-79 B 08
60-69 C 07
50-59 D 06
Below 50 F --
In addition, there shall be two transitional grades ‘I’ and ‘X’ for the students.
13.2 A student is considered to have completed a subject successfully and earned the credits if
he secures a letter grade other than ‘I’, ‘X’ or ‘F’ in that subject. A letter grade ‘F’ in any
subject implies a failure in that subject.
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 11

--- Page 12 ---
13.3 A student will be considered as Failed in a subject if s/he is not allowed to sit for the
examination due to shortage of attendance. To differentiate this with normal failure it will
be shown as “FA” in the grade card.
13.4 THE TRANSITIONAL GRADES ‘I’ AND ‘X’
The teacher of a subject may award the grade ‘I’ to a student if the latter was compelled to
absent himself from the end semester examination on account of: (i) Illness or accident
which disabled him from appearing at the examination. (ii) A calamity in the family at the
time of the examination, which, in the opinion of the Institute, required the student to be
away from the campus.
A student will be eligible for the award of grade ‘I’ only if his/her attendance at classes
and performance in other components of assessment are complete and satisfactory.
The teacher of a subject may award the grade ‘X’ to a student if the overall performance
of the student in the course is good, but is likely to get grade ‘F’ based on his/her end
semester examination.
All ‘I’ and ‘X’ grades awarded by teachers must be converted by them to appropriate letter
grades and communicated to the Academic Section (through Head of the Department)
within two days of the respective make up examination. Any outstanding ‘I’ and ‘X’
grades two days after the last scheduled make up examination will be automatically
converted to an ‘F’ grade.
13.5 A Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) will be computed for each semester as per
following formula :-
Where,
n is the number of courses registered during the semester.
C is the number of credits allotted to a particular course, and
i
G is the grade points corresponding to the grade awarded for the course.
i
13.6 A Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) will be computed at the end of each semester
as per following formula:-
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 12

--- Page 13 ---
Where,
S is the SGPA of the corresponding semesters.
i
*C is the total credit of the corresponding semesters.
i
13.7 Both SGPA and CGPA will be rounded off to second place of decimal and recorded as
such. Whenever these CGPA are to be used for the purpose of determining the merit
ranking of a group of students, only the rounded off values will be used.
13.8 When a student gets the grade ‘I’ or ‘X’ for any course during a semester, the SGPA for
that semester and the CGPA at the end of that semester will be tentatively calculated
ignoring ‘I’ and ‘X’ graded course(s). After conversion of ‘I’ and ‘X’ grade(s) to
appropriate grade(s), the SGPA and CGPA of that semester will finally be recalculated
after taking the converted grade(s) into account.
13.9 There are, however, a few other academic requirements for BS-MS programme where
student will be awarded following two grades viz., ‘P’ – Passed and ‘NP’ – Not Passed.
All non-credit subjects (such as field visits and Extra Academic Activities) belong to this
category. No grade points are associated with these grades and performance in these
subjects is not taken into account in the calculation of the SGPA or CGPA. However, the
award of the degree is subject to obtaining a ‘P’ grade in all subjects.
13.10 There will be a grand viva for the final year students. In such grand viva an qualified
academician from a reputed institution will invariably be invited to remain present and
take part in the viva-voce examination.
13.11 After the successful completion of vocational training each student will have to submit a
report in their respective Department. This will however be a non-credit subject.
14. ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE
14.1 There will be continuous assessment of a student’s performance throughout the semester
and grades will be awarded by the teacher concerned or the appropriate committee
appointed for this purpose on the following basis.
(a) In case of
(i) Theoretical subjects, the evaluation will be based on teachers assessment, quizzes, mid
semester examination and end semester examination, and each theory subject in a
semester is evaluated for 100 marks with the following weightage:-
Sub Component Weightage
Continuous Evaluation 20%
Mid Semester 30%
End Semester 50%
(ii) Sessional subjects (Laboratory), the evaluation will be on the basis of attendance,
assessment of the tasks assigned and the end semester test/viva.
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 13

--- Page 14 ---
(b) The evaluation of the project/dissertation work will be based on sessional work assigned
by the teacher, seminar, project report and project/dissertation evaluation committee’s
assessment (also see para 15 below)
(c) In case of other requirements such as seminar, comprehensive viva voce, extra academic
activities etc. as determined by the grade awarding authority.
(d) The mid semester and the end semester examination will be conducted centrally by the
Examination/Academic Section of the Institute in every semester. The details of
modalities for the internal assessment will be as follows:-
The class test or quizzes will be organized by the teachers concerned.
(e) The weightage assigned to different components of assessment should be announced by
the concerned teacher(s) in the beginning of the semester.
(f) The results of performance of the students in the mid semester examination shall be
announced by the teachers of the subjects concerned within a fortnight of the examination.
The teachers will also show the answer-scripts to the students if they want to see within a
period of 15 days from the next day of the end of Mid Semester examination.
(g) The final grades for a subject must be submitted after the end semester examination by the
concerned teacher(s) individually to the Controller of Examinations within 7(seven)
days from the next day of the end of End Semester examination
15. EVALUATION OF PROJECT /DISSERTATION:
15.1 Project/dissertation supervisor(s) for a student will be appointed from amongst the faculty
members of the NIT Agartala. Departments will evolve modalities for appointing of
supervisors keeping in view the students’ aspirations and faculty interest. No student will
have more than two supervisors. No change in supervisor(s) will be allowed without the
consent of the DPPC. In exceptional cases, with prior approval of the Dean (Academic) on
the recommendation of the DPPC, a student may be allowed to have a co-supervisor from
outside the institute.
15.2 Thesis/Project Oral Examination Committee (thesis assessment committee):
The thesis/project will be examined by an oral examination committee consisting of at
least the following members:
a) Supervisor(s)
b) One external expert
c) Head of the Department
d) One expert from the concerned department.
The oral examination committee shall be coordinated by the departmental programme
coordinator. The committee shall be approved by Dean, Academic on recommendation
from the Head of the Department.
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 14

--- Page 15 ---
15.3 Unbound typed 5 copies of project/dissertation prepared according to the prescribed
format available in the academic section will be submitted at least one week before the
probable date of the oral examination. If however the student does not make available for
the oral examination his/her programme will be deemed to have been terminated. Request
for revival of the programme by such a student should be addressed to the Dean
(academic).
On successful completion of the Oral Examination, each student will be required to submit
one bound copy of the project/dissertation each to the academic section, department,
central library and the Thesis Supervisor(s).
15.4 The project/dissertation work carried out by a student will be evaluated properly. For the
purpose of assessment, the performance of a student in the project/dissertation work may
be divided into the following subcomponents.
a) Assessment by Supervisor (project/dissertation work) - 50 %
b) Assessment by the departmental committee - 20%
c) External examiner - 30%
If any student gets fail in project/dissertation work carried out by him/her, then clause 15.7
will be followed.
15.5 External examiner should be from an outside Institute of repute. In an exceptional case,
the Dean (academic) may allow a person from another department as an examiner.
15.6 The project supervisor will periodically review the progress of the student and finally give his
assessment of the work done by the student.
15.7 Extension of project work beyond the deadline of submission in very special cases may
be granted by the Dean (Academic) on recommendation of the department / center for a
maximum period of 3 months. The viva-voce will have to be completed within the
extension period. The student shall not be eligible for award of medal / prize during the
extension period. However, if the student had been absent on medical grounds and his /
her project had been extended, he / she will be eligible for award of medal or prize.
15.8 All evaluated work in a subject except end semester answer scripts will be returned to the
students promptly. End semester examination answer scripts shall be preserved by the
concerned Department and the sheets containing details of marks converted to grades,
shall also be preserved by the teacher(s) concerned for further two semesters.
15.12 Changes in Grades Already Awarded: If a student feels that the grade awarded to
him/her in a course is not correct, he/she may request the teacher of the course to show
him/her the end semester answer script in order to ensure that all the questions have been
evaluated, within two weeks from the date of starting of the next semester. Teacher may
change the grades if he finds an error in evolution. Marks can only be changed after
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 15

--- Page 16 ---
review and observing all formalities and with the approval of Dean (Acad.) on
recommendation of DPPC as the case may be.
15.13 If a student is not satisfied with the result in any subject(s) in any examination even after
seeing the answer-script(s) from the faculty may apply for review of marks of the
subject(s) on payment of a fee of Rs.500.00 per subject within 30 days from the date of
starting of the next semester.
16. Distribution of 20 marks of internal assessment in theory subjects:-
The distribution of 20 (twenty) marks of internal assessment in theory subjects at the
undergraduate level will depend on the faculty concerned. The break-up of the mark will
be as follows:-
• Attendance 05 marks
• Written test/quiz 15 marks
Total 20 marks
17. Distribution of 100 marks of practical subjects:-
The distribution of 100 marks will be as follows :-
• Evaluation throughout the semester (40)
Record book 20 marks
Attendance & regular evaluation 5+15=20 marks
• External Examinations (60)
Practical Examination 40 marks
Viva-Voce 20 marks
18. EXAMINATIONS
18.1 In assessing the students’ attainment in subjects (Theory, Laboratory, and Sessional),
seminars, project work etc., the system of continuous assessment is adopted by the
Institute. In conformity with this practice, there will be one mid semester examination and
an end semester examination for every theoretical subject – in addition to the teachers’
assessment and quiz etc.
18.2 A student may be debarred from appearing in the mid or/and end semester examination
due to the following reasons:
(a) If any disciplinary action is taken against him/her.
(b) On recommendation of a teacher, if
(i) His/her attendance in the Lecture/Tutorial/Practical classes has been less than
75%.
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 16

--- Page 17 ---
(ii) His/her performance in the sessional work done during the semester has been
unsatisfactory.
18.3 In the event of final year student failing in a Laboratory and/or Sessional subjects, the
teacher concerned may, at his/her discretion, grant the student an extension of time not
exceeding 3 months and award an ‘I’ grade. If no such extension is given to a student
he/she has to re-register for the same requirement in the earliest succeeding semester in
which it is offered.
18.4 Special supplementary examination for the M.S final year students shall be conducted
for three subjects to the maximum each subject of 80 marks on realization of a fee of
Rs.500/- (Rupees five hundred) per subject. The examination will be conducted within 3
(three) months from the date of publication of result without arranging classes.
18.5 Students adopting unfair-means in and outside the examination halls will be expelled
from the examination immediately. The erring students will be expelled for the subject(s)
in which found adopting unfair-means.
19. MAKE UP EXAMINATIONS
19.1 Students who have missed an end semester examination on valid reasons and awarded ‘I’
grade are eligible for make-up examination. They should make an application to the
Controller of Examination through the HOD within seven days from the date of
examination missed explaining the reasons for their absence.
19.2 Normally no make-up examination will be scheduled for the mid semester examination
and quizzes. It is entirely up to the teacher to ascertain the proficiency of the student by
whatever means considered appropriate to him/her if he/she is satisfied of the bonafides.
However Make-up examination for mid semester may be conducted only valid reasons
and after obtaining approval from the Dean (AA) on recommendation of the DPPC.
19.3 Official permission to a make-up examination will be given under exceptional
circumstances such as admission to a hospital due to illness and a calamity in the family at
the time of examination. Students residing in the hostels should produce a medical
certificate issued by the Institute Medical Officer only. Students who are permitted to stay
outside the campus or who have been authorized to be away from the Institute should
produce a medical certificate from a Medical Officer not below the rank of a Civil
Surgeon and endorsed by the Institute Medical Officer. Certificate from private medical
practitioners will not be accepted. The Dean of the Academic Affairs can use his/her
discretion in giving permission to a student to take a make-up examination.
19.4 Students who are awarded ‘X’ grade by the teachers are also eligible for the make-up
examination.
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 17

--- Page 18 ---
19.5 Make up examinations will be held as per dates notified by the Controller of Examination.
Make up examinations at any other time can be held only with the permission of the Dean
of Academic Affairs.
20. WITHHOLDING OF GRADES
Grades shall be withheld when the student has not paid his/her dues or when there is a
disciplinary action pending against him/her.
21. ELIGIBILITY FOR THE AWARD OF B.TECH –M.TECH DUAL DEGREE
21.1 (a) A student shall be declared to be eligible for the award of B. S degree after successful
completion of B.S curriculum and attain a minimum label of academic performance i.e
with grade ‘P’ or higher grade in each of the subjects (Theoretical, Laboratory, Workshop,
Sessional etc.), Seminar, Project etc.
(b) A student shall be declared to be eligible for the award of M.S degree after successful
completion of M. S curriculum and attain a minimum label of academic performance i.e
with grade ‘P’ or higher grade in each of the subjects (Theoretical, Laboratory, Workshop,
Sessional etc.), Seminar, Project etc.
(c) A student of BS-MS (Dual Degree) has to complete the B. S course with in 12 (twelve)
semesters to the maximum and M.S course in 14(fourteen) semesters to the maximum.
(d) The student should not have any dues to the Institute, Department, Library, Hostels, NCC
/NSS.
(e) The student should not have any disciplinary action pending against him/her.
Award of Gold Medal:
(a) A student in order to be eligible for gold medal must complete B.S in eight semesters
and not having any back-paper in any semester of the entire course. The student(s)
with the highest total grade points shall be considered for the award of Institute Gold
Medal.
(b) A student in order to be eligible for gold medal must complete M. S in ten semesters
and not having any back-paper in any semester of the entire course.
(c) A student will be ineligible for gold medal if any disciplinary action has been taken
by the Institute against him/her during the entire programme.
21.2 (a) A degree certificate for B. S degree will be awarded after successful completion of B. S
curriculum.
(b) A degree certificate for M. S degree will be awarded after successful completion of M. S
curriculum.
21.3 The required degree certificate will indicate the relevant branch, and specializations if any.
The required degree will be conferred on a student in an annual convocation of the Institute.
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 18

--- Page 19 ---
21.4 The award of B. S-M.S dual degree must be recommended by the SENATE and approved
by the Board of Governors of the Institute.
22. DEPARTMENTAL POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMME COMMITTEE (DPPC)
COMPOSITION:
i) Head of the Department (ex-officio) Chairman
ii) 50% of the faculty members of the Department with a maximum of six or Members
a minimum of three faculty members to be nominated by the HOD of
which one will be nominated by the HOD as the Member Secretary.
iii) One faculty member from another Department. Member
The faculty member from the other Department will be nominated by the
HOD of that Department on request of the concerned Department.
iv) Two students with CPI/CGPA not less than 7.5 to be selected by the Members
postrgraduate students of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th years. One student member
from any other Department may be co-opted if necessary.
DPPC may take the assistance of an expert in the relevant area from IITs, IISc, NITs, recognized
Central/State Universities and when necessary with the prior approval of the Competent
Authority.
Tenure: Two years for faculty members and one year for student members.
FUNCTIONS:
(i) To oversee the conduct of all postgraduate courses of the Department.
(ii) To ensure academic standard and excellence of the courses offered by the
Department.
(iii) To discuss and recommend the syllabi of all the postgraduate courses offered by
the Department from time to time before sending the same to the Board of Post-
Graduate Studies (BPGS).
(iv) To consider any matter related to the undergraduate programme of the Department.
BOARD OF POST-GRADUATE STUDIES (BPGS)
COMPOSITION:
(i) Dean of Academic Affairs (ex-officio) Chairman
(ii) One member from each department nominated by the Members
HOD and approved by the Senate.
(iii) DR (Academic) or AR (Academic) Member, Secretary
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 19

--- Page 20 ---
Tenure: Two years.
FUNCTIONS:
1. To oversee the conduct of all postgraduate courses of the Institute.
2. To consider the proposals from the Departments and make recommendations to the
Senate for consideration and approval.
3. To issue guidelines to various Departments on evaluation pattern of the courses to
maintain uniformity.
4. To consider and recommend the assessment procedure to be adopted by various
Departments.
5. To consider and recommend any other matter concerning the undergraduate
programme of the Institute.
National Institute of Technology, Agartala Page 20