
--- Page 1 ---
Academic Regulations
ORDINANCE
0.1 The provisions of these regulations shall be applicable to all B.Tech. programmes
offered by the Institute.
0.2 All the regulations noted below shall be applicable to any new B.Tech. programme(s)
or any other similar programme that may be introduced in future.
0.3 A student becomes eligible for the award of the B.Tech. degree after fulfilling all the
academic and non-academic requirements prescribed by the Senate of the Institute.
0.4 Notwithstanding all that has been stated in the regulations, the Senate has the right to
modify/relax any of the regulations from time to time.
REGULATIONS FOR THE BACHELOR OF TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMME
ACADEMIC CALENDAR
1.1 Each academic session is divided into two semesters of approximately 18 weeks
duration: an odd semester (July—December) and an even semester (January—June).
1.2 Classes of all the semester will start at 9.30 am and end at 5.15 pm with break in
between. The institute follows 5-day week.
1.3 The senate approves schedule of academic activities for a session inclusive of dates of
registration, mid-semester and end-semester examinations, inter-semester breaks etc.
All these shall be laid down in the Academic Calendar for the session.
ADMISSION
2.1 Admission to NIT, Agartala is made in accordance with the instructions received from
the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD), Government of India from
time to time. Seats are reserved for candidates belonging to scheduled castes and
scheduled tribes, physically handicapped candidates and children of defence
personnel, other backward communities and other minorities as per the guidelines
issued from MHRD.
2.2 Admission to all courses is made in the odd semester of each session at the first year
level through All India Engineering Entrance Examination (AIEEE) conducted by the
Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE).
2.3 A limited number of admissions are offered to Foreign Nationals and Indians living
abroad in accordance with the rules applicable for such admission to be issued from

--- Page 2 ---
time to time by the MHRD under the scheme Direct Admission of Students
Abroad(DASA).
2.4 In special cases the Institute may admit students to a programme on transfer from
other NITs. Such admissions may be made at any level if considered appropriate.
However, no student is permitted transfer during first semester.
2.5 If, at any time after admission, it is found that a candidate has not fulfilled all the
requirements stipulated in the offer of admission, the Dean of Academic Affairs may
revoke the admission of the candidate and report the matter to the Senate.
2.6 The Institute reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student and ask him/her
to discontinue his/her studies at any stage of his/her career on the grounds of
unsatisfactory academic performance or indisciplined conduct.
RESIDENCE
3.1 All students shall be required to reside in and be members of the hostels to which they
are assigned at the time of registration. Only in exceptional circumstances a student
may be permitted to change from one hostel to another.
3.2 Under special circumstances, the Director/Dean of Academic Affairs may permit a
student to reside with his/her Parent/Guardian in the Institute Campus or within a
reasonable distance from the Institute. Such a student shall however be attached to a
hostel and will be required to pay seat rent according to rules and Hostel establishment
charges fixed by the Institute. However, this permission may be withdrawn at the
discretion of the Institute, at any time considered appropriate by the
Director/Dean(Academic), without assigning any reason.
3.3 No married student at the under-graduate level is provided accommodation in the
hostel.
3.4 All students must abide by the rules and regulations of the hostel as may be framed
from time to time by the Board of Hostel Management with the approval of Senate.
ATTENDANCE
4.1 It is expected that all the students will attend all the lecture, tutorial, laboratory,
practical and workshop classes in each subject. A student, will not be allowed to

--- Page 3 ---
appear at the Mid /End semester examination if the attendance falls below 75% in a
subject and he/she will be awarded (Fail) "FA" grade in that subject.
In Extra-Academic Activities (EAC), i.e., NCC, NSS, NSO etc. a student must attend
at least 75% of the total classes. The students are also to attend 75% of classes in
camps and some other activities/ programmes notified from time to time.
4.2 Leave of Absence
(a) If the period of leave is for a short duration (less than two weeks), prior application
for leave shall have to be submitted to the Head of the Department concerned
stating fully the reasons of the leave along with supporting document(s). Such
leave will be granted by the Head of the Department.
(b) Absence for a period not exceeding two weeks in a semester due to sickness or any
other unavoidable reason for which prior application could not be made by the
student may be condoned by the Head of the Department provided he/she is
satisfied with the explanation.
(c) If the period of absence exceeds two weeks, prior application for grant of leave
will have to be submitted to the Dean of Academic Affairs with supporting
documents through the Head of the Department in each case. The decision to grant
leave shall be taken by the Dean of Academic Affairs on the recommendation of
the Head of the Department.
(d) The Dean of Academic Affairs may, on receipt of an application also decide
whether the student be asked to withdraw from the course for that particular
semester because of long absence.
(e) The leave of absence as per paras 4.2 (a) to (c) will not be condoned for
attendance.
4.3 It will be the responsibility of the student to intimate the warden of the hostel in which
he/she is residing, and the concerned instructor(s) about his/her absence before
availing the leave.
4.4 In exceptional circumstances, the Dean of Academic Affairs in consultation with the
Chairman, Senate may relax any of the above requirements.
CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINE
5.1 The conduct of the students inside and outside the premises of the Institute shall be
befitting the students of an institution of national importance.

--- Page 4 ---
5.2 As per the order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, ragging in any form is
banned. Acts of ragging will be considered as a gross indiscipline and will be severely
dealt with.
5.3 The following acts of omission and/or commission on the part of any student(s) shall
constitute gross violation of the code of conduct and will invoke disciplinary
measures:
(a) Ragging
(b) Lack of courtesy and decorum; indecent behavior anywhere within or outside
the campus.
(c) Willful damage or stealthy removal of any property/belongings of the
Institute/Hostel or of fellow students.
(d) Possession, consumption or distribution of alcoholic drinks or any kind of
hallucinogenic drugs.
(e) Mutilation or unauthorized possession of library books.
(f) Noisy and unseemly behavior, disturbing studies of fellow students.
(g) Hacking in computer systems (such as entering other person's area without
prior permission, manipulation and/or damage of computer hardware and
software etc.)
(h) Any other act of gross indiscipline.
Commensurate with the gravity of the offence, the punishment may be reprimand,
fine, expulsion from the hostel, debarment from an examination, rustication for a
specified period or even outright expulsion from the Institute.
5.4For an offence committed in (a) a hostel (b) a Department or in a classroom and (c)
elsewhere, the Warden, the Head of the Department and the Dean of Student Affairs,
respectively, shall have the authority to reprimand or impose fine.
All cases involving punishment other than reprimand shall be reported to the
Chairman, Students Disciplinary Committee.
5.5 All major acts of indiscipline, which may have serious implications on the general
body of students, and/or which may warrant a uniform and more formalized nature of
investigation, shall be handled by the Students Disciplinary Committee, appointed by
the Senate.
5.6 Cases of adoption of unfair means in an examination shall be reported to the Dean of
Academic Affairs for taking appropriate action. The action will be as follows :-
If any student is found adopting unfair means in and out-side the Examination Hall
he/she shall be expelled for the rest of the examinations resulting in loss of 1(one)
Academic Year.

--- Page 5 ---
5.7 In the event of a major punishment, the aggrieved party shall have the right to
appeal to Chairman, Senate
CHANGE OF BRANCH
6.1 Normally a student admitted to a particular branch of the undergraduate
programme will continue to study in the same branch till completion of the course.
6.2 However, in special cases the Institute may permit a student admitted through AIEEE
conducted by CBSE to change from one branch of studies to another after the first two
semesters. Such changes will be permitted, in accordance with the provisions laid
down in 6.3.
6.3 Only those students will be eligible for consideration of a change of branch after the
second semester who have
(a) Completed all the common credits required in the first two semesters of their
studies, in their first attempt without having any course requirement in the
summer term examination.
(b) Obtained not less than 80% of marks at the end of the second semester.
6.4 Applications for a change of branch must be made by intending eligible students in the
prescribed form. The Deputy Registrar (Academic)/Assistant Registrar
(Academic) will call for applications in the beginning of the odd semester of each
academic year and completed forms must be submitted by the last date specified in
the notification.
6.5 Students may enlist up to three choices of branch, in order of preference, to
which they wish to change over. It will not be permissible to alter the choice
after the application has been submitted.
6.6 Change of branch shall be made strictly in order of merit of the applicants. For this
purpose the CGPA obtained at the end of the second semester shall be considered.
In case of a tie, the AIEEE rank of the applicants will be considered.
6.7 The applicants may be allowed a change in branch, strictly in order of inter se merit,
subject to the limitation that the strength of a branch should not go above the
sanctioned strength by more than ten percent.
6.8 All changes of branch made in accordance with the above rules will be effective only
from the third semester of the applicants concerned. No change of branch shall be
6.9 All changes of branch will be final and binding on the applicants. No student will be
permitted, under any circumstances, to refuse the change of branch offered.

--- Page 6 ---
COURSE STRUCTURE
7.1 Teaching of the courses shall be reckoned in credits. Credits are assigned to the
courses based on the following general pattern:
1(one) credit for each lecture period of one hour.
1(one) credit for each tutorial period of one hour.
1(one) credit for each Laboratory or Practical or Project session of two hour.
2 (two) credits for each Laboratory or Practical or Project session of three
hours duration.
7.2 In order to qualify for a B.Tech. degree of the Institute, a student is required to
complete the credit requirement as prescribed in the curriculum for a particular
programme. The minimum credit requirements for a programme will be in 220
credits.
7.3 No semester will normally have more than six lecture based courses and four
laboratory based courses. However, in special cases, students may be permitted to take
seven lecture-based and five laboratory/workshop based courses subject to the
recommendation of Faculty Advisor and approval of Departmental Undergraduate
Programme Committee (DUPC).
7.4 In addition to the prescribed credit requirement a student shall have to complete the
requirements of Extra Academic Activities (EAA) in one of the first 4 semesters..
Students will be awarded grades in EAA, which will be recorded in the Grade Card in
which a particular students registers for the same but not taken into account for
computing the SGPA and the CGPA.
7.5 The course work requirements may be broadly divided into following four main
groups of subjects:
(i) Humanities and Social Sciences
(ii) Basic Sciences and Mathematics
(iii) Engineering Sciences & Practice
(iv) Professional Subjects
7.6 The total course package for a department consists of the following components:
(i) Institutional Core subjects
(ii) Departmental Core subjects
(iii) Departmental Elective subjects
(iv) Institute Elective subjects
7.7 Every B.Tech. programme will have a curriculum and syllabi for the courses
approved by the Senate. DUPC will discuss and recommend the syllabi of all the
under graduate courses offered by the Department from time to time before sending
the same to the Board of Under-Graduate Studies (BUGS). The BUGS will
consider the proposals

--- Page 7 ---
from the Departments and make recommendations to the Senate for consideration and
approval.
7.8 Medium of instruction, examination and project will be in English.
7.9 The curriculum of an individual Department may include industrial training for 6-8
weeks for every undergraduate student. Industrial training and/or fieldwork is to be
satisfactorily completed before a student is declared eligible for the degree. The
curriculum for an individual Department will show a credit allocation for industrial
training. Normally industrial training will be arranged during the summer vacation
immediately following the sixth semester of studies.
7.10 Faculty Advisor: To help the students in planning their courses of study and getting
general advice on the academic programme, personality development, career planning
and welfare, the concerned Department as far as possible will assign Faculty
Advisor(s) for each batch of students. In the first year the Dean of Academic Affairs
shall assign Faculty Advisors.
REGISTRATION
8.1 Every student is required to register for the approved courses through the Faculty
Advisor at the commencement of each semester on the day fixed for such registration
and notified in the Academic Calendar.
8.2 Students who do not register on the day announced for the purpose may be permitted
late registration up to the notified day in Academic Calendar on payment of an
additional fee on the following conditions:-
 Registration in any semester shall be allowed up to a period of 7 (seven) days beyond
the specified date of registration with a fine of Rs.1,000/- (one thousand).
 Registration in any semester shall also be allowed up to a period of 7 (seven) days
after the expiry of first 7 (seven) days beyond the specified date of registration with a
fine of Rs.5,000/- (five thousand).
 There shall be no registration after the expiry of 14(fourteen) days beyond the
specified date of registration.
 This shall however not be applicable to the students who register on receipt of bank
loan or in the case of exigency such as death of any family member provided the
matter of bank loan or expiry of any family member is communicated to
Dean(Academic) with in 3(three) days after the end of last date of registration.

--- Page 8 ---
8.3 Only those students will be permitted to register in the next semester who have
(a) Cleared all Institute, Hostel and Library dues and fines (if any) of the previous
semesters
(b) Paid all required advance payments of Institute and Hostel dues for the current
semester, and
(c) Cleared the minimum academic requirement.
(d) Has not been debarred from registering on any specific ground.
8.4 During registration following conditions must be fulfilled:
(a) A student must pass all first year courses before registering for the third year
courses (5th sem onwards).
(b) Normally, the number of credits registered for during a semester should not be less
than 30 credits. The L-T-P loading for a semester should not exceed 32 contact
hours per week. Under special circumstances the Dean (Academic) may permit a
student to register for more or less credits in a semester.
8.5 (a) Students obtaining grade 'F' in any theory subject in any semester may clear it
by appearing at the supplementary examinations.
(b) If any student fails in Laboratory/Practical subject he/she shall not be allowed to
sit for any examination of theory paper.
(c) Similarly, in case of failure in Extra Academic Activities the student will have to re-
register for it in the appropriate semester of the next academic session.
8.6 A student who obtains an SGPA less than 6.5 with grade `13' in some subjects or grade
`13' in some subjects may be permitted by the Dean of Academic Affairs on the
recommendations of the Controller of Examinations to appear at the examination for
improvement in 3 subject(s) to the maximum in which subjects the student has got at
least `13' grade. A student obtaining 'F' or 'FA' grade in any subject will not be
allowed to appear at examination in any subject for improvement. However a student
will be allowed to appear in examination for improvement in 3 subjects covering bot
the semesters of a particular academic year only.
8.7 A student will be allowed to appear at parallel and supplementary examination in 5
subjects to the maximum. A student having a 'FA' grade in any subject will be
allowed to appear at the examination during the summer vacation after attending
required number of classes to be arranged by the concerned faculty with the approval
of the Head of the Department.

--- Page 9 ---
SUPPLEMENTARY AND PARALLEL EXAMINATION
9.1 Students having FA grade (fail due to shortage of attendance) in subject(s) will be
allowed to sit for parallel examination after attending 75% of classes and on payment
of requisite fee as per Institute Rule. The schedule of classes will be announced by the
concerned faculty of the subject(s) as per convenience. The examination will,
however, be taken during summer vacation.
Students having F grade in subject(s) will also be allowed to appear at the
supplementary examination during the summer vacation without attending any classes
on payment of requisite fee as per Institute Rule.
9.2 The schedule of supplementary examination during the summer vacation will be
announced by the Controller of Examinations at the end of even semester
examination. A student will have to register for parallel/supplementary/improvement
examination by paying the prescribed fee as per Institute Rule within the stipulated
time to be announced by the Controller of Examinations.
9.3 The total number of contact hours for any parallel examination for the students having
FA grade will be the same as in the regular course. The assessment procedure in the
parallel examination will also be similar to the procedure for a regular semester
course. Grades on the result of supplementary examination will be awarded in the
following manner:-
Grade obtained in
Grade to be
Supplementary
awarded
Examination
Ex A
A B
B C
C D
D P
P P
F F
DURATION OF THE PROGRAMME
10.1Normally a student should complete all the requirements for undergraduate
programme in eight semesters. However, academically weaker students who do not
fulfill some of the requirements in their first attempt and have to repeat them in
subsequent semester(s) may be permitted up to 12 consecutive semesters (from the
first semester registration) to complete all the requirements of the degree.

--- Page 10 ---
However, if a student is granted a withdrawal for one or more semesters on medical
ground the withdrawn semester(s) will be counted towards the maximum duration of
stay at the Institute.
10.2 In case a student fails to complete the B.Tech course with in the maximum limit
of 12 semesters the case will be decided separately with the approval of the
competent authority.
TEMPORARY WITHDRAWAL FROM THE INSTITUTE
11.1 A student who has been admitted to an undergraduate programme of the Institute
may be permitted to withdraw temporarily from the Institute on the grounds of
prolonged illness or grave calamity in the family for a period of one semester or more,
provided:
(a) He/she applies to the Institute within at least 6 weeks of the commencement of the
semester or from the date he/she last attended his/her classes whichever is later, stating
fully the reasons for withdrawal together with supporting documents and
endorsement of his/her guardian.
(b) The Institute is satisfied that, counting the period of withdrawal, the student is likely to
complete his/her requirements of the B.Tech. degree within the time limits specified
in para 10 above.
(c) There are no outstanding dues or demands of the Institute/ Hostel/
Library/NCC/NSO.
11.2 A student who has been granted temporary withdrawal from the Institute under the
provisions of para 11.1 will be required to pay fees/charges (except tuition fees and
hostel dues) till such time as his/her name is on the Roll List. However, fees once
paid will not be returned.
11.3 Normally, a student will be permitted only one such temporary withdrawal during
his/her tenure as a student of the undergraduate programme.
RESTRICTION/TERMINATION FROM THE PROGRAMME
12. A student is required to leave the Institute on the following grounds:
If at the end of any two semesters (one academic year) a student has scored "F" and
"FA" grade in 4(four) or more theory subjects, he/she will not be permitted to
register for the next semester subjects and will have to register for those subjects in
which s/he scored "F" grades in the first two semesters. Also for improvement
he/she may

--- Page 11 ---
register for courses in which he/she scored "P" for improvement on payment of
requisite fee as per Institute Rules.
(a)If a student is absent for more than 6 (six) weeks in a semester without sanctioned
leave his/her name will be struck off the rolls.
(b) A student may also be required to leave the Institute on disciplinary grounds on the
recommendations of the Students Disciplinary Committee.
GRADING SYSTEM
13.1 Based on the performance of a student, each student is awarded a final letter grade in
each subject at the end of the semester. The institute follows an absolute grading
system and has separate scale for theoretical and practical subject. The letter grades
and the corresponding grade points are as follows:
THEORETICAL SUBJECT
% of marks Grades Points
90 and above Ex 10
80-89 A 09
70-79 B 08
60-69 C 07
50-59 D 06
40-49 P 05
Below 40 F --
PRACTICAL SUBJECT
% of marks Grades Points
90 and above Ex 10
80-89 A 09
70-79 B 08
60-69 C 07
50-59 D 06
Below 50 F --
In addition, there shall be two transitional grades 'I' and 'X' for the students against
whom disciplinary action remains pending.
13.2 A student is considered to have completed a subject successfully and earned the
credits if he secures a letter grade other than 'I', 'X' or 'F' in that subject. A letter
grade 'F' in any subject implies a failure in that subject.

--- Page 12 ---
13.3 A student will be considered as Failed in a subject if s/he is not allowed to sit for the
examination due to shortage of attendance. To differentiate this with normal failure it
will be shown as "FA" in the grade card.
13.4 THE TRANSITIONAL GRADES 'I' AND 'X'
(a) The teacher of a subject may award the grade 'I' to a student if the latter was
compelled to absent himself from the end semester examination on account of (i)
Illness or accident which disabled him from appearing at the examination. (ii) A
calamity in the family at the time of the examination, which, in the opinion of the
Institute, required the student to be away from the campus.
A student will be eligible for the award of grade 'I' only if his/her attendance at
classes and performance in other components of assessment are complete and
satisfactory.
(b) The teacher of a subject may award the grade 'X' to a student if the overall
performance of the student in the course is good, but is likely to get grade 'F' based on
his/her end semester examination.
(c) All 'I' and 'X' grades awarded by teachers must be converted by them to appropriate
letter grades and communicated to the Academic Section (through Head of the
Department) within two days of the respective make up examination. Any outstanding
`I' and 'X' grades two days after the last scheduled make up examination will be
automatically converted to an 'F' grade.
13.5 A Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) will be computed for each semester as per
following formula :-
Y
C; G
,
SGPA
11
E c,
,=
Where,
n is the number of courses registered during the semester.
C is the number of credits allotted to a particular course, and
i
G is the grade points corresponding to the grade awarded for the course.
i
13.6 A Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) will be computed at the end of each
semester as per following formula:-
11
*c,s,
CGPA_ i=1
i=i

--- Page 13 ---
Where,
S is the SGPA of the corresponding semesters.
i
*C is the total credit of the corresponding semesters.
i
13.7 Both SGPA and CGPA will be rounded off to second place of decimal and recorded as
such. Whenever these CGPA are to be used for the purpose of determining the merit
ranking of a group of students, only the rounded off values will be used.
13.8 When a student gets the grade 'I' or 'X' for any course during a semester, the
SGPA for that semester and the CGPA at the end of that semester will be
tentatively calculated ignoring 'I' and 'X' graded course(s). After conversion of
'I' and 'X' grade(s) to appropriate grade(s), the SGPA and CGPA of that semester will
finally be recalculated after taking the converted grade(s) into account.
13.9 There are, however, a few other academic requirements for undergraduate
programmes where student will be awarded following two grades viz., `13' — Passed
and `NP' — Not Passed. All non-credit subjects (such as field visits and Extra
Academic Activities) belong to this category. No grade points are associated with
these grades and performance in these subjects is not taken into account in the
calculation of the SGPA or CGPA. However, the award of the degree is subject to
obtaining a `13' grade in all subjects.
13.10 There will be a grand viva for the B.Tech final year students of all branches of
engineering. In such grand viva an industrialist with academic background or an
academician with industrial background will invariably be invited to remain
present and take part in the viva-voce examination.
13.11 After the successful completion of vocational training each student will have to
submit a report in their respective Department. This will however be a non-credit
subject.
ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE
14.1 There will be continuous assessment of a student's performance throughout the
semester and grades will be awarded by the teacher concerned or the appropriate
committee appointed for this purpose on the following basis.
(a) In case of
(i) Theoretical subjects, the evaluation will be based on teachers assessment, quizzes, mid
semester examination and end semester examination, and

--- Page 14 ---
(ii) Sessional subjects (Laboratory/Design/Drawing/Workshop etc.), the evaluation will
be on the basis of attendance, assessment of the tasks assigned and the end
semester test/viva.
(b) The evaluation of the project work will be based on sessional work assigned by the
teacher, seminar, project report and project evaluation committee's assessment
(also see para 14.2 below)
(c) In case of other requirements such as seminar, comprehensive viva voce, extra
academic activities etc. as determined by the grade awarding authority.
(d) The mid semester and the end semester examination will be conducted centrally by the
Examination/Academic Section of the Institute in every semester. The details of
modalities for the internal assessment will be as follows :-
The class test or quizzes will be organized by the teachers concerned.
(e) The weightage assigned to different components of assessment should be
announced by the concerned teacher(s) in the beginning of the semester.
(f) The results of performance of the students in the mid semester examination shall be
announced by the teachers of the subjects concerned within a fortnight of the
examination. The teachers will also show the answer-scripts to the students if they
want to see within a period of 15 days from the next day of the end of Mid Semester
examination.
(g) The final grades for a subject must be submitted after the end semester examination
by the concerned teacher(s) individually to the Controller of Examinations
within 7(seven) days from the next day of the end of End Semester examination
14.2 EVALUATION OF PROJECTS:
(a) The project work is normally in two stages, each spread over a semester. At the end
of first stage the student is required to submit a preliminary report of his/her work by
a prescribed date to the Project Coordinator, Secretary, DUPC and present it to an
Internal Project Evaluation Committee. The second stage of work is continued in
second semester.
(b) (i)The Chairman, DUPC will submit to the academic section the names of the project
examiners at least two weeks before the submission of the second stage project. Three
unbound typed copies of the project report one for each examiner, prepared
according to the prescribed format available in the academic section will be
submitted to the Department at least one week before the probable date of oral
examination.

--- Page 15 ---
(ii)The Department will record the date of submission of the project and arrange to
send the project reports to the examiners. The project coordinator will inform the date
of the oral examinations to the examiners and send a copy to the academic section.
The project will be evaluated by the Project Evaluation Committee and the result will
be submitted to the Project Coordinator, who in turn will forward it to the Academic
Section.
(iii) On successful completion of the oral examination, each student will be required to
submit corrected bound copy of the project report one each to the Department and the
supervisor(s).
(c) Extension of time usually not exceeding 3 months from the announced last date for
submission of the project report may be granted by the DUPC in the case of students
with insufficient progress in the project work. In such a case the concerned students
will be temporarily awarded 'I' grade. Further, if the reports are not submitted within
the allowed period of time, the 'I' will be automatically converted to 'F' grade.
(d) Those who fail in the first stage assessment will be required to re-register for the first
stage in the following semester. Likewise, those who obtain an 'F' grade in the final
(second stage) assessment will be required to re-register for it in the subsequent
semester (including summer semester).
14.3 The evaluation of performance in Extra Academic Activities will be done by the
section of Dean(SW) and will communicate grades to the Examination Section.
METHOD OF AWARDING LETTER GRADES
15.1 The teacher(s) shall submit two copies of letter grades to the Head of the Department
to which the subject belongs, by the due date specified in the Academic Calendar.
Head of the Department will forward all grades to the Academic Section by the due
date specified in the calendar.
15.2 All evaluated work in a subject except end semester answer scripts will be returned to
the students promptly. End semester examination answer scripts shall be preserved by
the concerned Department and the sheets containing details of marks converted to
grades, shall also be preserved by the teacher(s) concerned.
15.3 Changes in Grades Already Awarded: If a student feels that the grade awarded to
him/her in a course is not correct, he/she may request the teacher of the course to show
him/her the end semester answer script in order to ensure that all the questions have
been evaluated, within two weeks from the date of starting of the next semester.

--- Page 16 ---
15.4 If a student is not satisfied with the result in any subject(s) in any examination even
after seeing the answer-script(s) from the faculty may apply for review of marks of the
subject(s) on payment of a fee of Rs.500.00 per subject within 30 days from the date
of starting of the next semester.
15.5 Distribution of 20 marks of internal assessment in theory subjects:-
The distribution of 20 (twenty) marks of internal assessment in theory subjects at the
undergraduate level will depend on the faculty concerned. The break-up of the mark
will be as follows:-
 Attendance 05 marks
 Written test/quiz 15 marks
Total 20 marks
 1 Number of test 3 minimum
If any faculty wants to deviate from the above provision he/she shall obtain
approval from the Dean(Academic) at the beginning of the semester.
15.6 Distribution of 20 marks of viva-voce in practical subjects:-
The distribution of 20 marks of viva-voce will be as follows :-
 Written test/quiz 10 marks
 Viva-voce test throughout the semester 10 marks
EXAMINATIONS
16.1 In assessing the students' attainment in subjects (Theory, Laboratory, and Sessional),
seminars, project work etc., the system of continuous assessment is adopted by the
Institute. In conformity with this practice, there will be one mid semester examination
and an end semester examination for every theoretical subject — in addition to the
teachers' assessment and quizzes etc.
16.2 A student may be debarred from appearing in the mid or/and end semester
examination due to the following reasons:
(a) If any disciplinary action is taken against him/her.
(b) On recommendation of a teacher, if
(i) His/her attendance in the Lecture/Tutorial/Practical classes has been less than
75%.
(ii) His/her performance in the sessional work done during the semester has been
unsatisfactory.

--- Page 17 ---
16.3 In the event of final year student failing in a Laboratory and/or Sessional subjects, the
teacher concerned may, at his/her discretion, grant the student an extension of time not
exceeding 3 months and award an 'I' grade. If no such extension is given to a student
he/she has to re-register for the same requirement in the earliest succeeding
semester in which it is offered.
16.4 Special supplementary examination for the B.Tech final year students shall be
conducted for three subjects to the maximum, each subject of 80 marks on realization
of a fee of Rs.500/- (Rupees five hundred) per subject. The examination will be
conducted within 3 (three) months from the date of publication of result
without arranging classes.
MAKE UP EXAMINATIONS
17.1 Students who have missed an end semester examination on valid reasons and
awarded `I' grade are eligible for make-up examination. They should make an
application to the Controller of Examination through the Instructor/HOD within
seven days from the date of examination missed explaining the reasons for their
absence.
17.2 No make-up examination will be scheduled for the mid semester examination and
quizzes. It is entirely up to the teacher to ascertain the proficiency of the student by
whatever means considered appropriate to him/her if he/she is satisfied of the
bonafides.
17.3 Official permission to a make-up examination will be given under exceptional
circumstances such as admission to a hospital due to illness and a calamity in the
family at the time of examination. Students residing in the hostels should produce a
medical certificate issued by the Institute Medical Officer only. Students who are
permitted to stay outside the campus or who have been authorized to be away from the
Institute should produce a medical certificate from a Medical Officer not below
the rank of a Civil Surgeon and endorsed by the Institute Medical Officer. Certificate
from private medical practitioners will not be accepted. The Dean of the Academic
Affairs can use his/her discretion in giving permission to a student to take a
make-up examination.
17.4 Students who are awarded 'X' grade by the teachers are also eligible for the make-up
examination.
17.5 Make up examinations will be held as per dates notified by the Controller of
Examination. Make up examinations at any other time can be held only with the
permission of the Dean of Academic Affairs.

--- Page 18 ---
WITHHOLDING OF GRADES
18 Grades shall be withheld when the student has not paid his/her dues or when there is a
disciplinary action pending against him/her.
ELIGIBILITY FOR THE AWARD OF B. TECH. DEGREE
19.1 A student shall be declared to be eligible for the award of B.Tech. degree if he/she has
(a) Completed all the credit requirements for the degree with grade 'F' or higher grade
in each of the subjects (Theoretical, Laboratory, Workshop, Sessional etc.),
Seminar, Project etc.
(b) Satisfactorily completed all the non-credit requirements for the degree viz.- Extra
Academic Activities etc.;
(c) "A candidate who passes the examination of all semesters in the 1St appearance and in
addition secures a CGPA of 8.5 and above will be declared to have placed in FIRST
CLASS WITH DISTINCTION.
(d) A student in order to be eligible for gold medal must complete B.Tech programme
within 8 semesters and not having any back-paper in any semester of the entire
course.
A candidate who passes the examinations of all semesters and secures a CGPA 6.5 and
above but below 8.5 and completes the course / degree will be declared to have placed
in the FIRST CLASS."
A candidate who passes the examinations of all semesters and secures a CGPA 5.0 and
above but below 6.5 and completes the course / degree will be declared to have placed
in the SECOND CLASS."
A student of B.Tech has to completes the course with in 12 (twelve) semesters to the
maximum.
(a) The student should not have any dues to the Institute, Department, Hostels, NCC
and NSO.
(b) The student should not have any disciplinary action pending against him/her.
19.2 The award of B.Tech degree must be recommended by the SENATE and approved by
the Board of Governors of the Institute.

--- Page 19 ---
19.3 DEPARTMENTAL UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMME COMMITTEE
(DUPC) COMPOSITION:
i) Head of the Department (ex-officio) Chairman
ii) 50% of the faculty members of the Department with a maximum of
Members six or a minimum of three faculty members to be nominated by
the HOD of which one will be nominated by the HOD as the Member
Secretary.
iii) One faculty member from another Department. Member
The faculty member from the other Department will be nominated
by the HOD of that Department on request of the concerned
Department.
iv) Two students with CPI/CGPA not less than 7.5 to be elected by the Members
undergraduate students of the 2nd, 3rd and 4th years. One student
member from any other Department may be co-opted if necessary.
For Science, Humanities and Applied Mechanics Departments, the
Dean of Academic Affairs shall nominate the student
representatives to the DUPC concerned.
DUPC may take the assistance of an expert in the relevant area from IIT, Guwahati or IIT,
Kharagpur as and when necessary with the prior approval of the Competent Authority.
Tenure: Two years for faculty members and one year for student members.
FUNCTIONS:
(i) To oversee the conduct of all undergraduate courses of the
Department.
(ii) To ensure academic standard and excellence of the courses offered by the
Department.
(iii) To discuss and recommend the syllabi of all the undergraduate courses
offered by the Department from time to time before sending the same to the
Board of UnderGraduate Studies (BUGS).
-
(iv) To consider any matter related to the undergraduate programme of the
Department.

--- Page 20 ---
19.4 BOARD OF UNDER-GRADUATE STUDIES (BUGS)
COMPOSITION:
(i) Dean of Academic Affairs (ex-officio) Chairman
(ii) One member from each department nominated by Members
the HOD and approved by the Senate.
(iii) DR (Academic) or AR (Academic) Member, Secretary
Tenure: Two years.
FUNCTIONS:
1. To oversee the conduct of all undergraduate courses of the Institute.
2. To consider the proposals from the Departments and make recommendations
to the Senate for consideration and approval.
3. To issue guidelines to various Departments on evaluation pattern of the
courses to maintain uniformity.
4. To consider and recommend the assessment procedure to be adopted by various
Departments.
To consider and recommend any other matter concerning the undergraduate
programme of the Institute.