
--- Page 1 ---
{dq
flEfrM
{Rrm srrcmTr
National Institute of Technology Agartala
A(ir\ Ii.'l AL.\-799{}.16
M.TECH
I
REGULATI{}I\{S
?{}X

--- Page 2 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA
M.Tech R lations 2019
l.GENERAL
1.1 The National Institute of Technology Agartala, awards the degree of Master of Technology (M Tech)
in Engineering to those who have successfully completed the stipulated Post-graduate Masters
Programme
1.2 The Post-graduate Masters Programme with the governing rules and regulations are formulated by the
Board of Governors(BOG) of the institute on recommendation o/ Senate. The BOG can modify or
change the structure the governing rules and regulations from time to time
1.3 A candidate becomes eligible for the award of the M. Tech degree after fulfilling all the academic
requirements prescribed by the Senate ofthe Institute
2.
CATEGORIES OF M. TECH.STUDENTS
The Institute admits M. Tech students under the following categories.
I.
REGULAR(FULL-TIME)
These are students who work fulltime for their M.Tech Programme. They may receive assistantsl.rip
lrom the Institute or any other recognized funding agency or may be self-financed. Since the Provision
of Part Time M.Tech is not in the Rule, Project Staff should also be Full Time.
I SPONSORED (FULL-TIME) STUDENTS
A candidate in this category is sponsored by a recognized organization for doing M.Tech in the
Institule on a full time basis. He/ She should have at least two years of working experience in the
respective field. I-{e/ She will not receive any financial support from the institute. Sponsorship letter
(Fortr I) should be attached with the application.
III. INSTITUTE EMPLOYEES
Institute employees zay be sponsored as full time students by the Director on recommendation of the
Head of the employee's Depafiment. Form- II must be enclosed at the time of application
IV. Quality Improvement Programme (QIP)
This category refers to a student selected under the Quality Improvement Programme (QIP) scheme of
the AICTE. The student has to work on full-time basis in the M Tech Programme as per the rules and
regulations oT QIP.
3. MINIMUMQUALIFICATIONS
Students for admission to the M Tech Programme in Engineering Depadments must satisly the following
criteria
I. Bachelor's degree in Engineering/Technology or equivalent in an appropriate area. or an MCA(for the
Department of CSE) with at least 60% marks or equivalent ( CGPA of 6.5) for General OBC category
students and 55% marks or CGPA of 6.0 In case of SC/ST categoryof students
11. Valid GATE score for Regular (fulltime) students for receiving Institute assistantship only.
lll. l)epafiments may propose additional requiren$nts over and above these minimum requirements. Any
proposal placed will be discussed in the Boald of Post Gladuate Studies (BPGS) before placing in the
SENATE.
SENATE and finalized after modiflcation)

--- Page 3 ---
4.ADMISSION PROCEDURE
4.1Adrnission to the M fech. Plollarnrnc of thc Institute uill norrnallv bc irr thc rnonths olJulr crclr car
through centlalizcd courrscling flr'ocess based or) the GATE 5core. For adrttissiort an adtertisemer)l u i be
issued in lhe month of April-N4ay.
4.2 B. Tech Students graduating from any one of the IITs,t.llTs wilh CGPA of 8.0 oI above rnay be
adn.ritted directly wilhout assistantship in their respective disciplines without GATE, score. I:lowever.
they have to follow the lonnal process of admission which is notified time to time. Non Gate
candidates may also apply based on vacancies left though writter.r / oral tests. For this formal r.rotice will
be issued by the Authority with the approval of Chairman Senale.
4.3 The applicants who have completed or are likely to complete all the exarninations inch-rding the thesis
oral examination, viva etc. ollhe qualilying degree by the date of admission to the programme may be
considered for admissior.r: however, if admitted, they must produce the evidence oftheir having passed
the qualifying degree examinaticn with the specified minimum marks/CPl(as specified in clause
3)within 8 weeks of the beginning of the semester, failing which tl.reir admission is liable to be
car.rcelled.
4.4 Candidate(s)whose selection is (are) approved by the Chairman, Senate will be adn'ritted to the N4. Tech
Programme of the Inslitute after payment olthe prescribed fees
4.5 The admission of any student will be treated ascancelled and void, if at ar.ry stage it is detected that
lie/she has obtained adrnission based on false inlormation or has subrnilted fake mark sheel/degree,
caste/PH certificate, etc., or suppressed some rnaterial infonnation of academic nature or otherwise
required lor his/her admission in the Instilute. The Senate may either appoint a Committee to examine
any specific case or review rules regarding admission time-to-time.
4.6 DASA Rules to be followed for the admission of student from abroad.
s.FINANCIAL SUPPORT
Students admitted to the M Tech Programme will be considered for assistantships, fellowships, tuition lee
uairer. erc. subject to the lollor,r ing norms:
5.1 A student must have the valid GATE score at the time of admission.
5.2 All students admitted and registered for each semseter in any of the M.Tech. Courses of this Regulation
shall be entitled to Institute Assistantship Provided that the first installment ol assistantship shall be
released only after satisfactory scrutiny of necessary documents supporting the students' eligibility lor
the assistantship. The sludents will have to subr-nit all documents as per the notice served lor the said
purpose. Students receiving assistantship fi'orr the lnstitute or from any other funding agencies rvill be
required 1o perlom academic dulies assigned to them by the deparlments as per rules in force 1}om
time to time.
5.3 The continuation of the assistantship/fellowship will be subject to satisfactory perfornrance ol the
duties assigned by the department and satisfactory progress in the post-graduate programme.
5.4 Financial assistance will normally be for a period of 1wo years from the date of stafiing ofclasses or the
date of completion ol course whichever it.earlier. The monthly value ol the assistantship shall be as
approved by the Board of Governors from lime to time with the prior sanclion of Llre Governmenl of
India. No student shall be permitted to enjoy more than one assistantship or remuneration from any
other source during the same period.
./
slZc_>+-p..Ec
(A.pplovcd in 29rh SllNAl ll and finalized after l1roclillcation) 2

--- Page 4 ---
5.5 No linancial assistance fi'om the institute will be available to Sponsored candidates/ Nor.r gate
candidates. Project staff adntilted ifany will get lunding from plojects as per rules but will not get any
additional assistance from the Institute.
5.6 Rcsearch Operating Grant:
i)
The I{OD ol the Deparlment is en.rpowered to monitor the utilization ol the fund exclr-rsively lol the
fullowing purpose related to the tesearch work of M.Tech students as proposed/recomn-rended by the
guide, however it should not exceed Rs. 10,000/- per: annum per student for M.Tech. The approving
powcr remains with the Head o1'tlie Institute. The unspent amount cannot be carried ovel for next ycar.
However, the final approving power remains with the Head of the Institute.
ii)
Thc Research Promotion Grand may be utilized:
a)
To procure consumables required for next year.
b) To plocure computer accessories (external hard disc and pen drives only, and as per research
re quiren-rer.rt) and antivirus software.
c)
Books relevant 1o research work.
d) Photocopyir-rg, printing and binding charges-only at the time offinal thesis submission.
e) Minor iustruments/spares costing below Rs.5,000/- per item related to the research work.
{)
Sample analysis, testing charges, fabrication, labour charges relevant to lhe research work.
g)
Attending Workshops, Seminars, Conferences, Training. Data Collection, Research Survey etc.
Conference Registration fee
h) Fol travel within India, train fare up to 2AC may be reimbursed. TA/DA as per Institute rules.
i)
Annual membership to professional societies related area ofresearch work.
iii) All the purchase under the said operating grant should be made through Indent/Purchase order as per
j)ulchase Rules o1'the Institut(.
iv) All items purchased under the above grant should be entered in the relevant Departrnental stock
Registrar.
5.7A student shall be required to abide by all instruclions issued by the hrstitute from tinre 1o limc
concerning award/payment of assistantship. In the event the studer.rt is reporled to be caught/proved
adopting uufair means in the examination, laboratory tests etc., the disciplinary committee will have the
optiot to decide stopping the paymenl of assistar.rtship and any other contingency amount for such
duratior.r, as it may deem fi1 and approved by the Chairman, Senate.
5.8 A Student may be allou'ed to work in an Industry only after completion of the 1st year ofthe course. In
those cases, the studelrt has to produce the acceptance copy from lndustry and duly approved by
Departmental Post Graduate Program Cornrfrittee. No financial assistance/ MHRD scholarship will be
provided to the student fi'om the L.rstitution in case he/she is receiving some assistantship/scholarship
fi'om the Industry concerned.
(Applovcd in 29rr'SDNATE and finalized aller modification) 4A zz(f 4hssc a

--- Page 5 ---
LEAVB RULES
6.1 A M Tech scholar is eligible lbr 30 days leave in a year', including Casual Leave, Saturda; s. Sundays
or holidays during the leave period are counted towards leave, except lor prefixed or suffixed holidays.
He/slre will not be entilled 10 semester breaks. sumrner and winter vacation.
6.2 Medical lcavc to the maxinum of 10 days may be granted to a M Tech Scholar over ar,d above 30 days
oladmissible leave under special circumstances.
6.3 An M.Tech scholar is eligible for 180 days of n'ratenrity (ir.r case of flenrale) or 5 days of patcrnity
1
leave (in case of male) as applicable provided they have completed the first two semesters. I-iowever.
the duratior.r of academic peliod will be extended to the extent of leave period. The student will not be
eligible for any scholarship /assistantship for the extended period beyond the maximul period o1'the
course (4 Semesters). Such leave vn'ill be sancLioned by the Dean Academic if reconrnended by tl.re
Supervisor and forwarded by the I{OD. Tl.re scholar has to produce a certificate from Seniol Medical
Officcr/ Medical Officer of the lnstitute in such cases.
6.4 Academic leaves: To attend conferences/ seminars/workshops/trainings/short-term courses, a
rnaximum of20 days ofleave is pennissible in an acadenric year'.
6.5 In exceptior.ral cases Chairman Senate may grant extm leave on case to case basis only on plior
sanction basis.
6.6 Absence without obtaining prior sanction of leave will be considered as an act of indiscipline and shall
entail reductior of scholarship on a pro rata basis, besides any other action that may be decided by the
Instituie.
6.7 Any abser.rce over and above the prescribed limit ol admissible leave shall entail deduction fi'om tl.re
scholarship, besides other actions as may be decided by the Institute.
6.8 Head of the Department (I{oD)/Dean Academic sanctions leave (for clause 6.1, 6.2, & 6.4) on
recommendation by the Superuisol. In the absence olsupen'isor, PG Coordinator may recommend.
6.9 Semester legistration is mandatory for every semester covering the leave period.
7. COURSE STRUCTURE
7.1 The course structure for a P.G Degree program will typically consist ofthe following components
a) ccore cours6s >28 credits >28 credits
b) Eelective courses >12 credits > 12 cledits
c) projects : :28
Mmajor 35 credits (in 3'd & 41r' semesters) cledits
7.2 The Departnental Post Gladuate Committee (DPPC-Appendix-ll) will discuss and recommend the exact
credits offered for the programme for tl.re above components 'a' to d' (in the lange of75-83): the semester-rvise
dislribr-rtion o1o the courses and credits. As well as the syllabi ol all postgraduate programmes oflered by the
department from time to time that shall be finalized by the DPPC belole sending the same 1o the Boald of Post
Graduate studies (BPGS-Appendix-1 1).The BPGS will consider the ploposals from the departments and make
recommendation to the Senate for consideration and approval.
7.3 Teaching lor the course shall be rekoned in cledits a$'specified against each subject
7.4 In order to qualify for a post graduate degree ofthe Institute a student is required to complete all the credits
specified in the scheme of instluctiOn for tl.rat programne as approved by the senate from time to time.
(Approvcd in 29'r' SENATD and iinalizcd aftcr rlrodification) Q3.ze2tep-eegc +

--- Page 6 ---
t.5 The curriculurr lor a course shall cornprise core subjecls, elective subjecls, serninars, Laboratory and maior'
ploje,-'i lollorvcd b1 plo.lcct viva vocc. Thc list of electivc subjects r.nay includc subjects from allied
disciplines also
8. ACADEMIC CALENDAR:
8.1 The academic year is divided into two semesters.
8.2 The senale shall approve the schedule ol acadernic aclivilies lor an academic year including tl.rc
dates for Mid semester and End semcster examinations, which shall be referred in academic calendar ol
the year. Each semester will normally be of 18 weeks, which includes the period for End scmester
examination also.
8.3 Acaden-ric calendar declared by the Senate in the beginnirrg of a senrester shall also fix Technical/Cultural
event dates during which all the co-curricular and extra-curricular progralnmes may be organized
o RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENT:
9.1 The Institute is essentially a residential one and unless otherwise exempted/pelmitted, every student
shall he required to reside in and be a boarder ofone of the halls ofrcsidence and mess to which l.re/she is
assigned.
9.2 irr cerlain cases where 1he student/ project supervisor feels lhat tlie M Tech project has to be carried
within tl-re premier Institutes with wl-rich Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs) exits where sufficienl
expertise/ laboratory facilities are available, they may be allowed to do so on the recommendalions of the
DPPC followcd by subsequent approval of the Chainlan Senate. In all these cases, the external
Supervisor may send the monthly attendance as well as the progress repofi to the Internal Supervisol for
availing the monthly Scholarship. The period ol such u'ork outside the Inslitute will be restricted for a
nraximurn period of three (03) rnonth during the second year of the course. No such leave will be
available in tl.re first year of the course. ln genuine/special cases, the period of such work may be
extended by another three (03) montli by Chairman Senate.
10.
ATTENDANCE:
Attendance in all classes (lectures/tutorials, laboratories, workshops etc.) is compr:lsory. A studenl may be
debarred fronr appearir.rg at an examination on grounds of unsatisfactory altendance.
10.1 Minimum required attendance in each theory /laboratory course is 75 o/o for appcaring at the mid/end
semester examination
10.2 Absence wilhout obtaining sanction of leave will be considered as an act of ir.rdiscipline and shall entail
deduction from scholarship on plo-rata basis
11. REGISTIIATION:
1i.1 Every student of the PG courses is requiled to be present and register at the commencemcnt
of each semester on the day fixed for and notified ir.r the Academic calendar. by paying requisite fees tl.rrough the
account. .i
MIS
1 1 .2 The physical registration will be organized depadmentally ur.rder the supervision of the Head of the
Depafiment and PG coordinator.
lApproved in 29'r'StiNA'l'li and finalizecl afler modification) €b4<-f?/Zpaec5

--- Page 7 ---
11.3 A student, who does not register on tl.re day announced fbl the purpose niay be penrritled. in consideration o1'an1
compelling rcason, latc rcgish'ation witlrin the nert t.hree worliir.rg days on payrenl of a prcvalenl addition.l late 1be as
prescribed by the Instiruie Normally no late registration shall be Permitted after the third rvor-king oay fi'our the
scheduled date.
11.4 Only thosc studenls will be permitted to register who have (a) CleaLed all Institule. liblary. conveyance
and Hostel dues of thc previous semesters, (b) Paid all requiled prescribed fecs fol tl.rc cuncnt senester'. and (c).
Not been debared fi'orn registering for a specified peliod on disciplinary or any other ground.
11.5 Thc students will choose the subjects for registration in consultation rvith the Faculty Advisor
(Appendix-Ill) The sludents may also consult thc Ilead o1'the Departmenl / Cenlre and other Leachers.
1 I .6 A student of M Tech may be allowed to becomc r.ron-residenl on the recommendalion o1' the Faculty
Advisor/Ploject Supervisor and the Head of the Depaltr.nent/ Cer.rtre and with the approval of the Dean of
Acadernic Allairs after he/sl, e has con.rpleted successfully two semesters of the Master degr ee course
continuously with a CGPA of 6.0 and above without no failure. The withdrawing student shall have to
complete the thesis/ploject wolk. submit the thesis and appear at the final viva-voce within 5 years ol
admission. Sponsored students and those wlio opt to becoine non-resident in ordel to ioin service will either
have to produce a letter from their emplcyer stating that they can can'y out the thesis/project work at tl.rc
employing organization or rejoin the Institute to wolk on the project lull time at a later date if the ernploying
organization does not have the lacility for execution of the project work L.r addition to this, a lcmalc
sludent may also be granted maternity leave with lull assistanlship(if receiving the same) provided
she has cor-npletcd the first yeal of M Tech course. A student so penlitted ma1' submit his/hel
dissertation later, provided that in such a case the project work must be completed and the dissertation subrnitted
rvithin 5 yeals ofhis/hel dale of adrnission Provided fuilher that
a) i'Ie corlmunicates in wliting to the Head of the Department Centre by the end of precedir.rg June
his/her intention to subrnit the dissertation.
b) Before submission of tl.re disseltation he delivers a seminar talk on a date to be lixed by the Ilead
of the Department / Centre, clears all outstanding dues, if any, to the Institute or to the Hall of
Rcsidence and also pays an additional re-admission fee as plesclibed by the Institute,
c) The assessment of the disserlation and the conduct of tl.re viva-voce thereon will bc arranged by the
Ilead of the Department Centre along with those of olher regular students of the current semester,
A student withdrawing himself/lierself, under the provisions of Para 1 I .6 above, belbre the plescribed dale for'
submissior, of dissertation shall not be allowed to submit hisArel dissertation along with other studcnts of
his&er batch.
1 1.8 Students who Siscontinued their studies rvithout prior permissior.r belorc completing the course wort of the Filst
and Second semesters shall be deemed to have abandor.red his/her sludies and their names u'ill be struck offthe
rolls of the Institute with effect from tlre date of absenting fi'om the classes. A studeirt rl,ho leaves the Ins1i1u1e
without prior permission even after completing the Second semester shall also be treated to have discontinued ar.rd
will be liable to similar action. Transcript/grade card fol any unfinished course/programme ol study will not be
issued in such cases.
.9 The permanent employees of NITA may be permitted to do the 4-semeter prograrnme in staggercd nanner
1 1
and the whole course of studies and protect wort within a maximum period of fir,e years counied from the year
oladmission.
Provided thai
Ile/she must submit an application in prescribed fi'om in advance Ibr such permission and must
not leave the L.rstitute befole, it is granLed.
IIe will be requiled to pay the plescribed tuition fees for retention of his name on the roll.
A studerrt seeking permission under this Para shall be required to follow the procedure laid doq'n in
Para 1.6above.
1
(Approved in SIlN,Al'E and finalizcd aftcr moditlcation)

--- Page 8 ---
1 1 .1 0 A student who has already registcred may
(a)
Registel for a neu' subject in addition to the subjects he/she has already regisLeled fbr'
(or)
O) Oirt lor a new subiect in place ofthe one aheady registercci for, rvitl, the concurence ofthe lacully advisor
Any change of the subject as penlissible by sub-paras(a) ) and (b), above must however bcdone within one weck
ofregistration and the conditions laid down in Para 7.6 above must be lirlfilled.
I2. ASSESSN,IENT OF ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE:
12.1 There will be cor.rtir.ruous assessment of the per forrnance of students throughout tlte semester and
grades will be awarded by the subject teacher/ DPPC.
12.2 Each theory subject ir.r a semester is evalualed
Ibr 100 marks, with the following weiglrtages
Subonrm.nent Weiglrtagc
evaluation
Continuous 20%
Examination
Mid-semester 30%
Exarnination
End-semester 50%
12.3 The ntid-semester examination will be conducted after I or 8 weeks ofinstruction
12.4 For assigning marks in continuous evaluation, surprise test assignmer.rt / quiz etc. may be conducted.
12.5 The mode and nature of the evaluation r.r.rust be intimated to the students at the beginning of the semester
along u'ith the lecture schedule.
12.6 Each laboratory couse may be evaluated on dre basis of Continuous evaluation (I-ab leporl. Viva- Qr:iz. laotest. etc )
D.7 f he ruuleric marks obtained in each course will be converled to letter grades.
12.8 A Seminar Assessrletrt Committee will be formed by the Head of the Departrnent / Centre for the evaluation
of perfonnalce of students at Seminam. Every student wl.ro registers for 'Seminar' is expected to atter.rd all the
seminars for all the students olthe batch held in the Deparlment / Centre dr:ring the semester. Due weightage will
be given to a student's attendance in the overall evaluation ofthis reoui
13. PROJECT &_THESIS AND ITS EVALUATION
13. 1 Thesis supervisor(s) for a student will be appointed fron-r amongst the lacully nembers of the NIT
Agaflala. Depaflments will evolve modalities lor appointing of superuisors keeping in vieu' tbe students' aspirations
and faculty interest The DPPC will co-ordinate this activity and will fon.r.rally communicate the appoit.rtmer.rt ol
thesis supen isor(s) of a student to the Academic Seclion No change/addition of Supen isor(s) is allowed after the
thesis has been submitted to the academic section. In case there has been a change/addition in the Supervisot'(s) the
thesis will be submitted not earlier than tllee months fiom the date of communication of such change/addition to
the acadenic section. No student onse registered for thesis/project units will be allowed 1o continue the progranrme
without a Thesis Supervisor having been appointed by the DPPC. No student will have n'Iol e than two
supervisors. No change in thesis supervisor(s) will be allowed u'ithout tbe consent of the DPPC In exceptional
cases, with prior approval of the Chainnan, Senate on the recommendation of the DPPC, a student may be allor.ved
to l.rave a co-supervisor fronr outside the institute. r-
132 ThesisProject Oral Exarr.rination Commillee(thesis assessment conllittee):
The thesis/project will be exan.rined by an oral examination comrnittee consisting of the following members:
Supervisor
qdzTrytGf
(Approved in 29'1'SENATE and finalized aflcr modilicatioi)

--- Page 9 ---
b) One cxternal exp e rt
c)
One expert 1'rom another department
d)
One expert frorn the conce red department.
Tl.re oral examination comrnittee sl.rall be coordinated by either Supelisor or in his absence by the depaftmental
programme coordinator. The comlillee shall be approved by Dean, Academic on reconmendation fi-om the Head of
'l'hc
the Dcpaftr.ncnt. cxternal exped to be selecled by the Director.
13.3 The Convenor. DPPC will subrnit to the academic section for apploval of the Dean(Academic) the
names olthe thesis/project exaniners on the presclibed fonl, at least two weeks befbre thc submission olthe thesis.
Unbouud typed copies ol thesis/pro.iect one lol each examiner prepared according to the prescribed fonlat available
in the acader.r.ric section will be subrritted at leasl one week before the probable dale ofthe oral examination. The
oral exarrination will be held vn'ithin two mor.rths from the date of submissiolr ol the the thesis project. Il
however the student does not n.rake available for the examinatior.r his/l.rer plogramme will be deemed to have
been terminated. Requesl 1br revival of the programme by such a student should be addressed to tl.rc
Chairman Ser.ratc
The Departnient will record the date o1'submission of the thesis/project and arange to send the thesis 1o tlie
examiners. Tlie supervisor,'p1'ogramme co-oldinator will inform the exarliners ol the date of the oral
exatnination and seud a copy of the academic section. The thesis/project will be evaluated and the Oral
Examination conducted by the Con.rmittee and report will be subrnitted to the convenor. DPPC.The report
will be communicated by the Convenor. DPPC through the Head to the academic section for record and
necessary aclion
On successlul completion of the Oral Examination, each student will be required to submit one bound copy ol
the thesis/project each 10 the academic section. deparlment, central libraly and the Thesis Supervisor(s)
13. 4Acceptar.rcc/Rejection of the Thesis/Proj ect
A thesis/project will be considered to have been accepted if all rrembers of the committee recommend i1s
acceptance Otherwise thesis/project rvill be considered to have been lejected. If a thesis/project is a rejectcd
along with a rccommendation by the Commiltee for resubmission afler incorporating and
modification/correction suggested by the Committee, oral examination lor the re-subrnitted
thesis/project will be conducted by the same Committee unless otherwise approved by the
Dean(Academic). If the resubmitted thesis/project is reiccted, the matter will be reported to the Senate 1ar
appropriate action Acceptance of thesis/proj ect will be reported to the Senate for approval.
13.5 Total 35 crcdits are assigned to the thesis/project work carried out by a student. Out oftotal credils ol
thesis/ploject work, 15 Credits will be evaluated at the end ofthe III semester ar-rd 20 credits will be evaluated
at the end of the IV semester as per academic calendar. For the purpose of assessment, the performance of a
student in the project work may be divided into the following subcor.t.rponents.
work)
a) Assessment by Superr,'isor (pr-oject 30 %
b) Assessment by the thesis assessment conxnillee 20 %
of the Department (Seminar)
c) Extemal examiner s0%
l36External examiner may be from inside ol outside the lnstitution
13.7 The projecl supervisol u'ill periodically rcview the progress olthe student and finally give his assessment ofthe
work done by the student.
13.8 The thesis asscssment committee(Tl.rerirlpr":.., oral examination conmilLee) of the deparlment will be
conslituled 11 will assess tlre perlomance of the candidate rvhen 1he car.rdidate ptesents his/her tl.resis work in
the fon.r.r of a seminar.
rAppru'cJ in 2q'r Sf\A ll :r"(l lrnr'i/cJ:1'..r rrodi.lcal.onr Q3z-e4zz4-p^*.s

--- Page 10 ---
13.9 Extensior.r of projecl work beyond the deadline of submission in very special cases t"nay be granted by the
Dean (Aiidemic) on recommetrdaliolr of the Departmer.rtal PoslGraduate Program Committee (DPPC) fol a
maximum period of 3 months The viva-voce will have to be cornpleted within the extension period. The
student sl.rall not be eligible either for award ol scholarship during the extension period or a1v medal / prize.
jl
Howevet, the student had beer.r absent on medical grounds and his/her project had been extended. he / shc
will be eligible lbr award of medal or plize.
14, EVALUATION - Grading System:
1,{.1As a measure of studenls' performance. a 7-scale grading systcm using the following letter grades and
conesponding glade points per credit shall be followed:
Lettcr Grade Performance Grade
EX E*"ll""r
l0
A good
Very 9
B Good
8
C Fair'
7
D Average
6
P Pass
5
'Fu
In addition, there shall be four transitional gading symbols which can be used by the exarniners to indicate the special
positiorr ofa studenl in a subject.
I -for "incomplete assessmenl".
W-for "withdrawal from the course"
R-for "insufficient attendance in the course"
X - lor "debared".
14.2 A semester Grade Point Average will be computed for each semester The SGPA will be calculated as
follows
Ic"cp
t'2
SGPA - '
,
fr-
/)-t
C
Where - Credit for the course.
GP, - . the Gr'ade Point obtained for the course and the summation is over all the courses taken in that
semester and n is the nurnber ofsubjects registered for the semester.
14.3 Starting fiom II semester a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) will be computed for every year
sludent at the end every semester.
The CGPA would give the cunulative perfonnance of the student from the first semester upto the end of 11.14:
semester to which it refers ar,d calculated as follows.
Zs'tc'
CGPA
\- r:
Zr -t a,
:
Where m total number of semesten urder consideration.
:
C, total numbei ofcredits registered for during a particular semester
:
Si SGPA of that semester.
SENATE and finalizcd afler modification)

--- Page 11 ---
14.4 The CGPA, SGPA and the gradcs obtained in all the subjects in a semestcr will be cornmunicated to
every student aL the er.rd of every semester
45 Both SGPA and CGPA will be rounded olT to the second placc of decinral and recorded as such. Whenever
these grade poir.rt averages are to be used for thc purpose of detemining the merit ranking of a group of students. ortll'
the rounded of1'values 'will be used.
121.5 The minimurn SGPA requirer.nent for continuing in the M Tech. Programme is 6.0. However. M.Tech
sludent securing a CGPA between 5.5 and 6.0 may be allowed to Continue in the following semester on the
lecommendation ol the DPPC (Departmenlal Poslgraduate Programr.ne Committee) and on approval of
Chairnran o1'SENATE. Students who secure a SGPA below 6 0 in two consecutive sernestels will not be
allowed to continue ir.r the postgraduate programme. Studellts must obtain a mininrutn SGPA o16.0 ir.t order
to graduate. in thc first semester in which the student registers the minimum CGPA (SGPA) requirement
can be relaxed to 5.5.
14J Wl-ren a student gets the grade 'l'lor incomplcte assessment for an subject(s) during a ser-nester, the SGPA ol
that semester and the CGPA at the end of that senester will be tenlatively calculated ignoring tlis (these) subjecLs
After the'i'grade(s) has (have) been convened to appropriate grades, the SGPA and CGPA for the semester will
finally be recalculated after taking into account thcse grades.
14.8 When a student gets the'F'grade in any subject during a senester, the SGPA and the CGPA from that
semester onwards u'ill be tentalively calculated, taking only 'zeto point' lol each such'F grade. After the '|'
grade has been substitr"rted by better grades during a subsequent semesler, the SGPA and CGPA of all thc
semeslets starting from the earliest semester in which the 'F' grade has been updated will be recomputed and
recorded to take this changc ofgrade into account
15. EXAMINATIONS
15.1 In keeping with the policy ol continuous assessnent, in the case ol tl.reoretical subjects, there will be nrid-
semester examinatiolr in about the middle of the semester and an end-semesler examination at the end of thc
semester. Normally, there will no mid-semester examination in the practical (i e Laboratory. Workshop
eLc.). However, the final evolution will be based on continuous assessment in each laboratory/practicai classes
followed by End-Semester Examination.
Sluder.rts will be permitted to appear in the examinations of only those subjects lor u'hich they have regisiered
themselves in the beginning of a senesteL.
.
The semester examinalion will cany specified weightage for the purpose of award of grades vide para 12.2
above.
5.2 A student will be required to discontinue studies if the SGPA/CGPA cor.nputed at the end ol arry
1
semester lalls below 6.0, even after taking into consideration the results ofthe supplelretrtaly examination.
15.3 The institute scholarship of a student will be withheld in case a student fails in any subject. lt u'ill bc
restored only if SGPA / CGPA is at least 6.0 AND there is no F grade follorving the
suppienr eniary exarnination.The student may hor.l'evet, continue wiihout scholarship after supplemen'tary
examination with F grade / grades subjected to condition in Para 12.2 above.
15.4 ir.r supplenrentary cxamination the student will be given one grade lower than the actual perfotmance grade
except in the case ol Grade "P" which will remain unchanged. The student will apply in a prescribed form
togeiher with necessary fees in order to appear in tlie supplementary examinatious,
15.5 Students with F grades also have an option 10 re-register lor the subject (s) in which tiiey had lailed in the
even or odd semester as rvhen they are offered. In such a case they will be entitled to full credit according 1o
bnlance at the exatlination.
qA
(Approved in 29'h SIiNA I FI and finalized allcr lnodification) ztz-ZD42Paec t0

--- Page 12 ---
15.6 A sludcnt rvhose pcrformance in any of the pafts of the project work has been unsatisfactory rnay be
assigned 'cdditional *'ork on the same problem or assigned a neu' problent. If the student is assigr.rcd
additional u'ork the student u'ill have 10 complete the work and appear at the r,,iva-voce as per the academic
calendar fixed by the senate Il the student is assigned a neu' problenr on account of any reason. the student
u'ill have to submit the dissertatior.r and complete thc viva-voce by December 31 of tlrat calcndar year.. Tl.re
student rvill not be eligible for scholalship duling the extended period of his stay but will have to pay pr.oject
.
16. THB'INCOMPLETE. GRADE'I' AND INSUFFICIENT GRADE'FA'
16.1 The grade 'I' t.uay be lemporarily given to a student who is unable to appear in the end-semeste r
examination because o1'
(a) Illness or accident. which disables the student lrom appearing ir.r the examination. This r.t.rust be duly
certified by the Instilute Medical 01ficer.
(b) A caieunity in the family at the lime of the examination which, in the opilriol of the Head of the
Department ' Centre and Dean of Studcnts Affairs required the student to be away lrom the campus.
16.2 If a student is rinable to appear a1 a r.nid-semestcr examinatior.r lol any of the compclling reasor.rs
mentioned above, the teacher (s) concerned may use discretior.r, and take a test \\'ith same weightage.
16.3 A student u'ho has been awarded grade'I'in a subject in the end-semesler
examinalior.r shall have the option to either
a)
Appear at a supplementary exatninatiolr to be held by the Department by filling in the application in
prescribed forrn logether with payment of necessary fees. In the supplementary examination the student will be
awarded one gradc lower than the actual grade obtained from the performance in the examination. excepl in the
case of grade'P'which will remain unchanged (OR)
b)Re-register for tlie subject in the subsequent semester in which it is offered. In such case 1he student is
entitled to lull credit in accordance with the per-formance.
No supplementary examinaliot.t will be held ir.r laboratory subjecls. The studenl has to re- register dr-rring
a regular senester
16.4 A student wl.ro has insufficient attendance shall be awarded grade,FA'
17. GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
17.1 In order to qualily for a P.G. degr.ee of the institute. A student must
(a) Have cornpleie all the credit requiremer.rts for the degree. As prescribed by tl.re senate. with grade 'P" or.a
higher grade in each olthe subjects etc. for which the student registered in all the semesters.
b) Havc obtait.red a CCGPA of 6.00 or rnore at the end of tl.re semester in which the student completes all
the requirements (including the dissertation). for the degree.
C) A sludent wl.ro has qualified for the degree will be admitted to it only after the student has cleared all
Inslitutc and Hall dues, if any, outstanding against the sludent, has returned all library books borrowed by the
sludcnt and also returned instrunlents, Department / Centre library books etc. in good condition
I8. DISCIPLINIT
18.1 Studenls shall conduct themselr,es within and outside the precincts of the Institute in a mar.u.rerbefitting
the students of ar.r institution of national impofiance
18. 2 As per the order of the IJon'ble Suprer.r.re Court of India, raggil.lg in any fonn is banued: acts of ragging
SENATIj and finalizecl after ntodification)

--- Page 13 ---
\\,ill be corrsidered as gross indiscipline and will be severely dealt with
18.3 The flollou'ing acts of omission and/or corrmission shall constilute gross violation of the coo olconduet
and are liable to invoke disciplinary measures:
a
_
ryagSinS
b)
Lack o1'courlesy and decorunr, indecent bchaviour anywhere witl.rin or outside Lhe campus,
cl
Willful damage or stealt\ removal of any plopelty,/belongings of the Institute/Ilostel or o/fellow stude s
d)
Posscssion, consunrptior.r or dislributior.r of alcoholic dlinks or any kind of hallucinogcr.ric dlugs.
e;
Mutilation ol unauthorized possession of library books.
1) Noisy and unseeurly behaviour, disturbing studies of fellol' students.
g) Ilacking in computer systen.rs (such as cntering other person's area q'ithoul prior pcnlission manipulation
and/or dan,age olcomputer hardwale and softwue etc.)
h)
Ary other act ofgross indiscipline
Commensurate with tlie gravitl, olthe ofl'ence. the punishment may be reprimand, fine, expulsion fi'om the hostel,
debament fi'om an examination. Rustication for a specified period or even outlight expulsion fi'om the Inslitule.
184For an offence committed in (a) a hostel (b) a depadment or in a classroom and c) elsewhere, 1he Warden-
the l{ead of tl-re Depzulment and the Deal of Studenl's Aflairs, respcctivcly shall have 1he authorily to repdmand
or ir.npose 1ine.
All cases involvir.rg punishment other than reprimand shall bc rcpolted to the Chairman. Studcnts
Disciplinary Commitlee.
i8.5 All major acts ol indiscipline w"hich may havc serious implications on the general body of students.
and/or wlich may warrant a uniform and more fomalized nalure of invesligation, shall be handled by the Students
Disciplinary Committee, appointed by the SENATE.
186 Cases of adoption of unfair means in an examination shall be reported to the Dean of Acadernic Aliairs for
taking appropriate action.
18.7 Li the event of a nlajor punishmenl, llie aggrieved party shall have the right to appeal to Chairman
SENATE.
Students are expected to obselve nonns of good behavior, rules and regulations prescribed and orders issucd by
the universitv authorities olthe Institute from time 1c) time-
19. TEMI'ORARY WITHDRAWAL
19.1 A student who has been adn'ritted to M.Tecl.r program may be penniLled to withdraw temporarily for a period
olone semester or r.nore from the Institute on account ofplolonged illness / acute problem in the family provided
that
a) The student applies to the Lrstitute *'ithin 15 days of comn'rencement oflhe semester or lion the date oflast attended
the classes statit.tg fully the reasons for such withdrawal together with supporting documents and endorsement of the
lather/guardian.
€SZaZDzg
(Approvcd in 29'r' S[NA l-l] and finalized alicr modilication) pase t2

--- Page 14 ---
(b)The institute is satished that, inclusive of the period of withdrawal, the student is likely to complete all the
requireme-;ts for the degree within 4 years flron.r the date of admission to the program
(c) There are no outstanding dues or demand fi'om the institute / Deparlment / Centre / Hall ofResidence /Library.
19.2 A student who has been granted temporary withdrawal under provisions ofclause 19.1 will be required to pay
fees/charges (except tuition fee and hostel dues) throughout the ertire duration of withdrawal along with cunent
semester registration when the student rejoins the program.
19.3 A student shall be granted only one such temporary withdrawal during the program
20. RELAXATION
The Senate may, under exceptional circumstances, consider any case of a student having a minor
deficiency in respect ofany ofthe requirements stated in these regulations and relar the relevant provision ofthese
regulations on the merit ofthe case The grounds on which such relaxation is granted shall invariably be recorded and
cannot be cited as precedence
2I. DEBAR OF'A STUDENT
A student may be debarred from attending the end semester exarninations/registering from the courses in a
semester on grounds of indiscipline/malpractices in the examinations In such cases, he/she is awarded 'X' grade as
a transitional grade.
QQzc^?ta
(Dr. G. Bhargava)
Registrar, NIT Agartala
SENATE and finalized afier modification)