
--- Page 1 ---
About the Institution
Chief Patron
Established in 1965 as Tripura Engineering College. Prof. S. K. Patra
Later, the Government of India converted the Tripura
Director
Engineering College to National Institute of
National Institute Of Technology Agartala
Technology Agartala on 1st April 2006. NIT Agartala One Week
is an Institute of National Importance was instituted Short Term Course (Online)
Patron
by Government of India with the mission to herald (20-24 May 2024)
Prof. Ajoy Kumar Das
excellence in technical education and research in the On
Dean R&C
North-East region. NIT Agartala offers The Science Behind Heat Power: From
National Institute Of Technology Agartala
undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs Fundamentals to Real-World Uses (SBHP-2024)
in various fields of engineering, science, humanities,
Chairman
and management. The institute is renowned for its Sponsored by
Dr. Pritam Das
academic excellence, research initiatives, and industry National Institute of Technology Agartala
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
collaborations. NIT Agartala boasts state-of-the-art
Dr. Prasenjit Dutta
infrastructure, well-equipped laboratories, and a Organised by
Head, Department of Production Engineering
conducive learning environment. Mechanical Engineering Department
Production Engineering Department
Conveners
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Dr. Nabarun Biswas (Production Engg. Deptt.)
Tripura 799046, India
Dr. Paramvir Singh (Mechanical Engg. Deptt.)
Assistant Professor About The Short-term Course
National Institute of Technology Agartala This short-term course is designed to explore the
science and applications of heat power in the context
Co-ordinator(s) of mechanical and production engineering. The
Dr. SagnikPal (Mechanical Engg. Deptt.) course features a series of online sessions delivered by
Dr. Sujoy Chakraborty (Production Engg. Deptt.) distinguished experts. The sessions will focus on the
Assistant Professor principles of heat power, its role in various industries,
National Institute of Technology Agartala and the latest advancements in this field.
Address for Correspondence Registration Fee & Other Details
Potential Distinguished Speakers • Short term course will be conducted in Online
Dr. Nabarun Biswas
• Dr. Varun, NIT Hamirpur Production Engineering Department Mode.
• Dr. Atul Dhar, IIT Mandi NIT Agartala, Tripura • Short term course registration fee is INR 200 for all
• Dr. Chetan Patel, IIT Patna Email: mechanical.biswas@gmail.com the participants (including students/faculty
members/staff members, industry personnel, etc.)
• Dr. Snehasish Panigrahi, IIT Delhi Contact: +91-9362529413
• Please fill up the registration form (the bank
• Dr. Pravendra Kumar, IIT Madras
details are given in the google form)
• Dr. Saurabh Sharma, IIT Roorkee Important Dates
https://forms.gle/p3UCDqt1hg7Pt2837
• Others from NITs and IITs Last Date of Form Submission: 18 May 2024