
--- Page 1 ---
  

Senate of NIT Agartala held on —

1 eptember, 2007.
Members present:

1. Prof. S.C. Saha Chaiman
Director (1/C), NIT Agartala

2. Dr. Swapan Bhaumik Member
Dean (Academic)

3. Dr. Saroy Kr. Das Member
Dean (Students Affairs)

4. Dr. R.P. Sharma Member
Dean (Adm) &
H.O.D. Civil Engg. Deptt.

5. Dr. P. Chakraborty Member
Dean (Plc & Cordn.) &
H.O.D.. ME& PF Deptt

6. Dr. Ardhendu Saha Member
H.O.D., Electrical Engg. and
Electrical & Electronics Engg. Department

7. Dr. Aparna Nath Member
H.O.D.. Physics

8. Sri Priyanath Das Member
Chief Warden '& Asst. Professor

9. Sri Ajoy Das Member
Professor /C ( Pé& P) and Asst. Professor

10. Sri M. K. Deb Barma Member
H.O.D.. Comp. Sc. & Engg.

11. Sri Ratul Das Member
Asst. Professor

12. Sri Rama Deb Barma Member
Asst. Professor

13. Sri John Deb Barma Member- Secretary (Officiating )

Associate of Dean (Academic) & Lecturer

Phe following decision are taken unanimously:

i

~

‘ed

= : . ‘ : 1 3 : No VO
A report on the status of admission of students in 1” semester during session 2007 — 0S
will be sent to the Central Government. It is also decided that NIT Agartala will not
participate in the institutional counseling.

As per the demand of the students, NIT Agartala will be awarding B Tech) Degree
instead of B.E. Degree.

NIT. Agartala may adopt grading system for awarding the degree like other NITs
However, presently, existing system may continue.

Contd. P/2


--- Page 2 ---
Lay

Page-2

It has been felt that a heavy duty Xerox machine is urgently required in the office of the
Dean (Academic) for different official purposes as well as keeping in view about the Mid
term examination scheduled on 4" October, 2007. It was decided that a heavy duty Xerox
machine will be purchased on DGS & D rate on urgent basis.

It is decided that a committee may be formed to interact with different departments of the
leading Technical Educational Institutes and Industries to discuss on the prospects o|
Transportation Engineering and Production Engineering. The aspects of conversion of
Transportation Engg. and Production Engg. into other suitable related branches where
better job prospects available may be considered on the basis of the report of the
committee.

The Chairman of the meeting has been requested to take up the urgent matter during
forthcoming BOG meeting scheduled to be held on 22" September,2007.

It is decided that the existing branch of Electrical & Electronics Engineering may be
converted into Electronics & Communication Engineering. The matter may be placed in

the B.O.G. meeting for decision.

The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the chair.

         
 

to
ie | te taal?
( Dr. S.C. ¢ , (John DebBarma)
Chairntyn\~ Officiating Member Secretary

ofe
