
--- Page 1 ---
oe)

5

6.

7
i.

 

Minutes of the s

Members present:

Prof. S.C. Saha

Director (1/C). NJT Agartala

Prof. Samir Kumar Saha
Professor. ME Deptt.

Jadavpur University

Prof. (Mrs) Uma Bhattacharjee
Professor & Head CSE Department
BESU, Shibpur

Prof. Satyadeo Podder

Professor in History

Tripura University

Dr. Swapan Bhaumik

Dean (Academic) NIT Agartala
Dr. Saroj Kr. Das

Dean (Students Affairs) NIT Agartala
Dr. R.P. Sharma

Dean (Admn), NIT Agartala

Dr. P. Chakraborty

Dean (Plc & Cordn.) NIT Agartala
Dr. Ardhendu Saha

H.0.D., Electrical Engg. and
Electrical & Electronics Engg. Department
NIT Agartala

Dr. Aparna Nath

H.O.D.. Physics. NIT Agartala.
Sri Manish Pal

HOD Civil. NIT Agartala

Dr. A. K. Das.

H.O.D.ME & PE &

Professor L/C ( T& P)

Sri M. K. Deb Barma

H.O.D.. Comp. Sc. & Engg.

Sri Apu Kr. Saha

HOD Math Deptt.

Sri Privanath Das

Sri Ratul Das

Asst. Professor, NIT Agartala
Smt. Rama Deb Barma
Asst. Professor. NIT Agartala
Dr. D. Bhatlacharjec
Registrar (9c), NIT Agartala

 
  

1g of Senate of NIT Agartala held on
29° November 2007.

Aaen 2oture— oe

Chairman

\fember
Afember
\fember

Member
Member
Niember
Member

Member

Member
Member

Member

Member
Member

Member

Chief Warden & Asst. Professor, NIT Agartala

Invitee-Member
Invitee-Member

Memiber-Secretary

29

|

 


--- Page 2 ---
ee

Prof S.C. Saha, Chairman, Senate of NJT Agartala welcomed all the members of the

Senate and thereof Prof Samir Kr. Saha, Member, Senate discussed regarding the constitution,

funcuon and duties of the members of the Senate.

Agenda wise discussion werc held and decisions are taken unanimously.

Agenda No 1.

 

Yo consider and approve existing rules & regulation and syllabus of BE / B. Tech
course 10 conduct the ensuing odd semester examination.

The exisung rules & regulation, course curriculum and svilabus of B.E./ B.Tech course to
conduct the ensuing odd semester exam were considered by the members and approved.
However ajl the members opined that the deatfiliation ietter from ‘Jripura University may be
obtained at the earliesl, before the commencement of odd semester examination, 2007 for

conducting the ensuing odd semester examination.

Agenda No 2.

To adopt the credit based grading system for the J“ semester students admitted
through AIEEE — 2007.

The detail of the credit based grading system was placed in the meeting and al! the

; ; . st
menibers accepted and approved to adopt the credit based grading svstem for the 1° semester

students admitted through AIEEE 2007. However, the Insutution should prepare detailed rules

and regulation for credit based grading system and the same may be pluced in the next meeting

and mav be sent to all the members prior to the meeting. so that they may go through in details.

Agenda No 3.

 

oe ae . dd gtt .
Yo adopt the existing mark based system for the 3°", 5" and 7'" semester students.

NIT Agartala (formerly Tripura Engineering College) was affiliated to Tripura University
and students admitted prior to 2007-08 academic session was under Tripura University and
deeree is being awarded on mark based system and it was proposed that the existing marks based
system may be contnued for the as & 7 semester students. The members accepted and

approved the proposal.

 

30

 


--- Page 3 ---
 

Agenda No 4

hes i .

To provide the approval to conduct the examination of 1. 3" 5" and 7" semester
students under NIT Agartala.

NIT Agartala (formerly Tripura Engineering College) was affiliated with ‘Trpura
University. As NIT Act. 2007 passed in Parliament and was effective from 15" August 2007 and
students were adimilted on the basis of AIEEE rules, instead of Tripura University guidelines as
per the approval of Tripura University. lt is pertinent to provide the approval to conduet the
examination of 1%. 3"? & 5" semester students under NIT Agartala following the agenda No. 1. 2
& 3.

The members of Senate approved the proposal te conduct the examination of 1°, 3", 5" and 7
semester students under NIT Agartala after getting the deaffilhauon Jetter from Trpura
myers Chairman requested the member present from Tripura University for taking persona!

influence for expediting the matter.

Additional Agenda

a

a. Approval for “ Standard Operating Procedure of Hostels of National
Institute of Technology, Agartala”.

The agenda was withdrawn in the meetung.

The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the chair.

f i \ -
. ‘ os a. C /
S) “ 4» ho x fC Lt aw mun:

tholbechet.
(Dr. S.C. Saha) (Dr. D. D Bitttacharpee ©)
Chairman Member-Secretary

31
