
--- Page 1 ---
asa tena dear sere
National Institute of Technology Agartala

noc oF THE REGISTMAK
Ped sad22

oe O3/03/201 |

      
  

 
 

Sub: Sending of Minutes of 7" meeting of SENATE of NIT Agartala.

The Minutes of 7" meeting of SENATE, National Institute of Technology
Agartala held on | 1" February. 2011 in the conference hall of the institute is enclosed
herewith.

The minutes may kindly be perused and observation, if any, on any point of the
minutes may be sent to this end at an early datc.

Enclo; As stated.

sprys, ea Uhre > ho" ey A

(Dr. D. Bhattacharya)
Registrar NIT, Agartala, Member Secretary

i: Dr. Subhas Chandra Saha. Professor (ME) NIT Agartala, for kind information

z. Dr Umesh Mishra, Professor (CE) NIT Agartala, for kind information.

3. Dr. Ashoke Kumar Sarkar, Professor (CE) NIT Agartala, for kind information

4, Dr, Ajit Kumar Roy, Professor (HU) NIT Agartala, for kind information

5, Mrs. Anindita Jamatia, Head of the Department, Electrical Engineering, Department.
NIT. Agartala, for kind information.

6. Mr. Nirmalya Kar, Head of the Department (officiating), Computer Sc & Engineering
Department, NIT, Agartala, for kind information

7. Dy. Sambhu Nath Pradhan, Head of the Department, Electronics & Comm
Engineering Department.NIT, Agartala, for kind information.

§. Dr. Dibyendu Ghosal, Head of the Department, Electromics & Inst. Enginecring
Department, NTT, Agartala, for kind information.

9. Dr, Ram Naresh Rai, Head of the Department, Production Engineering Department,
NIT. Agartala, for kind information.

10. Mrs. Soma Nag. Head of the Department, Chemical Engineering Department

: NIT, Agartala, for kind information.

11. Dr. Mitali Saha. Head of the Department, Chemistry Department. NIT. Agartala, for
kind information.

12. Dr, J. N. Roy, Head of the Department, Physics Department, NIT, Agartala, for kind
information.

13. Dr. Uttam Kumar Bera, Head of the Department, Mathematics Department, NIT.
Agortala, for kind information.

wer be ihe be

(Dr. D. Bhattacharya) ~ ) .
Registrar NIT, Agartala, Member Secretary

Copy to
1, PS to the Director, for kind information of the Director and Chairman, SENATE
r pele bs ey ey
(Dr. C: Bhattacharya)
Registrar NIT, Agartala, Member Secretary

—ooGGGe____ ee ———aEE==lRe«R
Nit jelé, Agertoie- "FOES, Lode. erieae- ee mierda in. ced eller peel com, PON - Tee, Les Pacers
Pee ee a PT je


--- Page 2 ---
 

No.NITA

   

  

Si(12-AcadySENATE/2010V..... “Dated: eat.

Minutes of the 7" Senate Meeting

Minutes of the 7” SENATE meeting of National Institute of Technology Agartalaheld
on 11" February, 2011 in the conference hali of NIT, Agartala.

Members present
1. Prof. Probir Kumar Bose Chairman
Director, NTT Agartala
2. Prof. Kamakhya Prasad Ghatak Member

pS he

a

Department of Electronics Science

University of Calcutta

Dr. Subhas Chandra Saha Member
Professor (ME) NIT Agartala

Dri Umesh Mishra Member
Professor (CE) NIT Agartala

Dr. Ashoke Kumar Sarkar Member
Professor (CE) NIT Agartala

Dr. Ajit Kumar Roy Member
Professor (HU) NIT Agartala

Mrs. Anindita Jamatia Invitee
Head of the Department

Electrical Engineering Department

NIT, Agartala

Mr. Nirmalys Kar Invitee
Head of the Department (officiating)

Computer S¢ & Engineering Department

NIT, Agartala

Dr. Sambhu Nath Pradhan Invitee
Head of the Department

Electronics & Comm, Engineering Department

NIT, Agartala

10, Dr, Dibyendu Ghosal invitee

Head of the Department

Electronics & Inst. Engineering Department
NIT, Agartala

il. Dr. Ram Naresh Rai Invitee

Head of the
Production Engineering Department
NIT, Agartala

12. Mrs. Soma Nag Invitee

Head of the Department

Chemical Engineering Department
NIT, Agartala

13. Dr. Mitali Saha invitee

Head of the Department
Chem

NIT, Agartala

2 he ' = —

ie eee we nliaga rola im, coma: PhALSE]- Debeb SO, DBS S7, Fa: tM

ae |
0 eee (PAIOF..f* ©. DOBE »
entree Ap Feeur

Seti 0 so] Tee eiclege deena (ppt ib pr

foeiuai os - ee ee Saute. ae


--- Page 3 ---
Weg Tela Tet STA

 
    

National Institute of Technology Agartala
OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR
tna re difTmail comm, M4 S6727
14. = Dr, J. 8. Roy Invites
Head of the Department
Physics Department
NIT, Agartala.
15, Dr. Uttam Kumar Bera Invites

Head of the Department
Mathematics Department
NIT, Agartala

It. Dr. Debasis Bhattacharya texte Secretary, SENATE
Registrar, NIT, Aguriala

Prof. (Dr.) PK. Bose, Director & Chairman, SENATE, NIT Agartala initiated the
discussion by welcoming all the members of newly re-constituted SENATE as per
provision of the statute. He specially weloomed Prof. K. P. Ghatak of University of
Calcutta and expressed his grotitude for taking all the troubles to come to NIT, Agartak

He invited all the members present in the meeting to take part in the discussion on the
issues placed in the Agenda Note.

After the opening remark of Chairman, SENATE, Dr, Debasish Bhattacharya,
Member-Secretary, SENATE briefly discussed the isswes included in the Agenda Note
and placed for consideration. Prof, A, K. Sarkar, Dean, Academic Affair, then discussed
all the issues of the agenda note in detail one by one.

Agenda wise discussion was held and decisions were taken unanimously.

PART —A

Item No. S7/1 Confirmation of the Minutes of the Sixth Meeting of Senate held on 9”
November, 2009,

The Minutes of the Sixth meeting of Senate held on 9%
November, 2009 were confirmed.

litem No. S/6/2 Action taken on the decision on the Filth Meeting of Senate.

The action taken report was perused and confirmed by the Senate with the
following sugpestions,

i. Item No, 8/6/14 of Action taken reporti-

The SENATE decided that the details of the Mol) entered into between NIT,
Agartala and [TT Guwahati, SIT, Agartala and BESU should be circulated to
all the Academic Departments. A notification in this regard would be issued,

 
   

far jale, Agartala-7 PASS, ledin, welaiie- eww nltagartals.in, email:
Ee abelteower ime (PROF FY BOGE -
Heacaer

. — ee Maieey salut oo
Tea la PO all Acta Tani Teg


--- Page 4 ---
usta welhreat gear sree
National Institute of aa one

OFFICE OF ee acer

   

Item No. $/7/3 Consideration and approval of result of Even Semester provisionally
published on 31" May, 2010,

The SENATE approved the result of Even Semester provisionally published
on 31" May, 2010.

ltem No. S/7/4 Consideration and approval of Awarding Degree to the successful
students passed B, E. course in 2010.

The SENATE approved Awarding of Degree to the successful students who
passed B. E. course in 2010,

Liem No, S/7/5 Consideration and approval of Awarding Degree to the successful
students passed M.Tech course in 2010.

The SENATE approved Awarding of Degree to the successful students who
passed M.Tech course in 2010.

Item No. S/7/6 Status of admission in B.Tech 1" Semester during the academic session
2010-11 under Home State quota and All lodia quota.

The SENATE perused the status of admission in B.Tech 1" Semester during
the academic session 2010-11 under Home State quota and All India quota
and gave the following suggestions:

i) Admission status in B.Tech |" semester under All India and Home
State quota would be placed before SENATE from the next year giving
the detailed breakup of vacant seats in respect of SC, ST and OBC
category,

fi) The State Govt, would be informed of the position of vacant seats
under home state quota for taking measures for improvement so that no
seal under home state remains vacant.

iii) NIT, Agartala may consider the feasibility of making awareness
campaign in collaboration with the State Education department for
improving the participation and performance of the candidates of the
state in all India jewel entrance examinations such as AJEEE.

Item No. $/7/7 Consideration and approval of Board of Post Graduate Studies (BPGS)
of NIT, Agartala,

The SENATE after discussion approved the formation of Board of Post
Graduate Studies (BPGS) of NIT, Agartala.

Pherjate, Ager tale RSS, [eed owe attegiriade ie, eral Pit] De, CAAT, fandeMs
NN SB foe ce cere (PROF FF. BOBE)
; ney Tree

ae ‘ to eoe Akon! |Aahtide oF
eieicons Prensa ae kf rede Troon Wh 79


--- Page 5 ---
      
 

wedi Senha Seat Serre
total atts ot a

brad, = henner

Item No. S/7/8 Consideration and approval of revised Ph.D rules of NIT, Agartala.

The SENATE after detailed discussion decided as follows:-

i) As per suggestion given by a few in course of discussion for
making a few changes it was decided the proposed revised Ph.D rules
would be ¢irculated after incorporating the changes to all the academic
Departments, On receipt of feed-back from all the Departments the
Ph.D rules would be finalised,

Item No, S/7/9 Consideration and approval of revised B.Tech Syllabus of NIT,
Agartala.

The SENATE afier discussion approved the revised B.Tech Syllabus of NIT,
Agartala with the following suggestions:-

i) In the Grand Viva one expert from industries having academic and
teaching back-ground or an academician having industrial back-ground
would be invited by the respective Departments to be present.

Liem No. S/7/10 Consideration and approval of revised M.Tech Syllabus of ‘NIT,
Agartala.

The SENATE approved the revised M.Tech Syllabus of NIT, Agartala.
Item No, 8/7/11 Consideration and approval of revised MCA Syllabus of NIT, Agartala.
The SENATE approved the revised MCA Syllabus of NIT, Agartala.
Item No. 5/7/12 Consideration and approval of M. Se Syllabus of NIT, Agartala.

The SENATE approved the revised MCA Syllabus of NIT, Agartala.
However the SENATE gave the following observation in respect of subjects
of M.Sc Mathematics,

i) In the M.Sc Mathematics course the new syllabus finalized afler the
syllabus review work-shop has 2 (two) new subjects namely Advanced
Language and Lab — 1 ( in the 1” semester) and

Advanced Numerical Analysis and Lab — [1 ( im the 2™ semester). The
first batch of students has already completed the |" semester subjects
according to the syllabus developed before the review work-shop,
have completed a subject named Classical

Mechanics and Optimal Control which has been replaced by
Programming Language and Lab — 1 in the revised syllabus, Thus the
course of Classical Mechanics and Optimal Control will be considered
equivalent to Programming Language and Lab —! only for this bateh of
students. Thus they need not do the subject Programmimg language
and Lab —[. For the subsequent batches the problem will not arise as
they will follow the course structure adopted after the review work-

Beams ed ak There TT,

a a ae eT:
: - io PoP x
" iia —“{PROE. FF, BOGE y
Teotor

‘
tm ~

Keer Tei — Metional nest or Tetouan

Berjaie, Agartets 200006, fede, abate: rare eiiegerints ts, camel eitenieiigeeet com, Ph-O08- 234000, S0007S, Poul dete


--- Page 6 ---
 

Item No. S/7/13 Consideration and approval of Cumulative Grade Point Average
(CGPA) and Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) in place of Comulative
Performance Index (CPI) and Semester Performance Index (SPT) respectively.

The SENATE approved the Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) and
Semester Grade Point Average (SGP A) in place of Cumulative Performance
Index (CP!) and Semester Performance Index (SPI) respectively.

Item No, 8/7/14 Consideration and decision on the Degree certificates to be issued to the
scholars completing M.Tech aod Ph.D course from NIT, Agartala.

The SENATE approved the following:-

i) Candidates passing M.Sc. would be given certificates stating Master of
Science in specified branch of Science.

ii) Candidates passing MCA would be given certificate stating Master in
Computer Applications.

iti) Candidates passing M.Tech examination would be given certificate
stating Master of Technology in specific engineering discipline and
then indicating the specialization within bracket.

ili) Candidates completing Ph.D programme successfully would be given
certificate stating Ph.D in Engineering. Science and Humanities &
Social Sciences as the case may be. The title of the thesis would be
indicated al a suitable position in the certificate.

ltem So, 5/7/15 Consideration and approval of names of faculty members for induction
in Board of Governors of NIT, Agartala as members.

The SENATE approved nomination of the following members to Bourd of
Governors (BoG) of NIT, Agartala:-

i) Prof. Ashboke Kumar Sarkar.
ii) Mr. Priyanath Das.

Item No, 8/7/16 Consideration and approval of taking examination of 3 (three) back-
papers after taking summer classes af NIT, Agartala.

The SENATE approved taking examination of 3 (three) back-papers after
taking summer classes at NIT, Agartala,

ae :
mo 4 po (PROF. FF, BORE)

see onetogy a Nacoal rsinute of Torney
Marjala, Agariata-T900SS, Inds. wensibe- www sitagnrtal. i, email sitacdicitgmall.com, Ph-ON1- 2246638, 24837, Fax: t)46s60


--- Page 7 ---
 

Item No. 5/7/17 Consideration and approval of opening of M.Tech courses in the
specialization of “Environmental Engincering™ under Civil Engineering
Department at NIT, Agartala.

The SENATE approved M.Tech courses in the specialization of
“Environmental Engineering” under Civil Engineering Department at NIT,
Agartala. However the course may be offered after ensuring the availability
of adequate infrastructure and arrangement of required faculty with the
approval of Board of Governors (Bot).

ltem No, 87/18 Consideration and approval of revision of M.Tech rules in respect of
M.Tech candidates by making mandatory provision of giving
undertaking for admission as institute staff at NIT, Agartala or outside
institution,

The SENATE approved taking of under-taking from the institule candidates
at the time of admission in M.Tech courses without making any amendment
in the existing M.Tech mules.

litem No, 5/7/19 Consideration and approval of provision of submission of undertaking
by the institute candidates of Ph.D programmeto the effect of serving
the institute for consecutive 3 (three) years after completion of Ph.D
course,

The SENATE approved taking of under-taking from the institute candidates
ai the time of admission in Ph.D courses without making any amendment in
the existing Ph.D rules.

Item No. §/7/20 Consideration and approval of revised fee for admission to M.Tech &
Ph.D as institute staff of NIT, Agartala.

Alfter detailed discussion the SENATE suggested as follows:-

The Dean, Academic would collect information from some IITs and some
NITS and prepare a comparative statement. The statement would be placed
before the Chairman SENATE for taking an appropriate decision in this
regard.

Item No. 5/7/71 Consideration and approval of the creation of the office of Controller of
Examinations at NIT, Agartala.

The SENATE approved with the following suggestion:-

i) The Controller of examinations would be invited a5 an invitee member
in the SENATE meetings in future.

ii) The Heads of the Departments of those Departments having professor
would also be invited as invitee members in the SENATE meetings in
future.

EEE
Hier jada, Fig leTO845, nila. wehedin- waee.lingertale.in, emall- aiisedokgunallLoom, PRaLNE |. Lode, LAT, Pee 2 bee ee
aaa ” _ Pagr-t

ea ee ‘ io
OF. () Pettiesa “
7 1c |
Pate? che a aretioeg PaOFP F. BOGE j
fase (teers tt FOr fear
Mafional inegeude oF Teese)

tenia Tea Pee


--- Page 8 ---
ussta Shelf Seat Seren
National Institute of Technology Agartala

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR

 

Item No, $/7/22 Consideration and approval of disposal of evaluated answer-scripts of
all examinations of NIT, Agartala,

The Dean, Academic would collect information in respect of disposal of
evaluated answer-scripts and the maximum period of retention from other
Liniversities, IITs, and NITs. The matter would be referred to the legal
advisor of the institute for views before taking a final decision in this regard.

Item No. 5/7/23 Consideration and approval of new grade system in respect of results of
B. Tech and other courses of NIT, Agartala.

The SENATE approved the following after discussion,

i) Anew grade FA would be given to the students who failed because of
shortage of attendance.

ii) A student to be eligible for Gold medal would not have any back paper
in any semester during the course of 4 (four) years, The student would
also be required to complete the B.Tech course in 4 (four) years
without any failure.

The SENATE also suggested the following:-

i) The Dean, Academic would look into the points raised by the members
in course of discussion and then place the whole Grading system
before the SENATE for approval,

Item No, $/7/24 Consideration and approval of Distribution of assessment marks.

The SENATE approved Distribution of assessment marks for the B.Tech,
M.Sc and MCA programme with the following suggestions:-

i) Out of 20 (twenty) marks 5 (five) marks would be for attendance of the
students and 15 marks would be for class test.

ii) (three) class tests would be conducted and the marks of 2 (two) best
test would be taken into consideration.

il) Before conduct of class test a notice would be issued for the
information of al! the students at least 7 (seven) days ahead of the date
of test,

Item No. 8/7/25 Consideration and approval of Revision of Scholarship / Fellowship for
Ph.D Scholars.

The SENATE approved proportionate increase in the scholarship to the Ph.D
scholars receiving scholarship from the institute (@] Rs, 10,000/- in the event
of increase in the rate of scholarship by MHED, Scholarship should be given
taking the performance of the scholar into consideration. The modalities for
the award of institute fellowship would be d by the Dean, Academic,

Barjela, Agertale-7*6S4, india. website. www nitegartals.in, email- nitnedoggmall.com. Pali Di Mi, LBSST, Fan:246360
jinn ore EA TE Tt

Ca
eS ete ha,
Ue. Lt 27 Of Pesce :
Hey (PROF. F, F. BOSE)
rea a. .

oT .ennefogps
Agree, aie Toston Abadioet 1 risttyle of Te sircity?

Bey, “Trai ilk Tracie,"


--- Page 9 ---
ae trate Ser sere
National Institute of Technology Agartala

Se ees

 
     

Item No. 8/7/26 Consideration and approval of Award of scholarship to a Ph.D. student
as a special case,

The SENATE approved grant of scholarship to Sri Vivek Singh Bhaduria as
a special case not to be quoted as precedence with the following
supgestions:-

i) Dean, Academic would put all the justifications for awarding him
scholarship on record.

ii) | (one) candidate Smt. Aparna Ganguli who bas an M.Sc degree in
Physics and is pursuing Ph_D in engineering in ECE Department would
be required to complete 24 (twenty four) credits of course work
besides the course of Research Methodology in order to be eligible for
continuing Ph.D course in engineering.

Item No. W7/27 Consideration and approval of Change of credits of the B.Tech courses
at the First and Second year levels,

The SENATE approved Change of credits and substitution of 2 (two)
subjects of the B.Tech courses at the First year level.

Item No, ST/28 Consideration and approval of subjects offered specially for Pb.D
candidates.

The SENATE approved the subjects offered specially for Ph.D candidates
with the suggestion thal the Departments particularly Humanities & Social
Science, Electronics & Communication, Physics and Mathematics would
make changes in the names of the subjects as per requirement with the
approwal of Dean, Academic.

The Meeting ended with « vote of thanks to the Chair.

fle t tree
(Prof, P. K, Bose) (Dr. B. Whattachiejec)
Chairman Member-Secreta
(Pact » rf. BOGE) oe . erin nt ge
regdivin! inept Ct ee ete 6 Ceol
agen Ther fi Aeemais. Triana ys

NN  ——————————————— _—_————————————_——
; Niteedce gmail.com, a 4
Bariuls, Anarine. Trees [ndla. webalie- ew alte gertals.in, emell- Pb We MT, eee
