
--- Page 1 ---
M

National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Barjala, Jirania, Agartala, Tripura (west) 799055
Tele- (0381)-2346630,2346360

Fax: (0381)-2346360

inutes of the Third meeting of Senate of NIT Agartala held on

 

Members Present:

6)

7)

8)

10)

13)

14)

Dr. S.C, Saha

(Director, I/C) (ex-officio)

Prof. (Mrs) Uma Bhattacharjee,
Professor & Head CSE Department
BESU, Shibpur

Professor Satyadeo Podder
Professor In History

Tripura University.

Prof. Samir Saha,

Professor Heat Power Laboratory
Mechanical Engincering Deptt.
Jadavpur University. Kolkata — 32
Er. Subhash Roy.

Executive Director

NHPC Ltd.

Prof. Nitindra Nath Sem

Former Professor

CE Department, Jadavpur University.
Prof. P. B. Datta Gupta,

Former Professor, IT Kharagpur

Dr. Swapan Bhaumik

Dean (Academic) NIT Agartala

Dr. Saroj Kr. Das

Dean (Students Affairs) NIT Agartala
Dr. R.P. Sharma

Dean (Admn), NIT Agartala

Dr. P. Chakraborty

Dean (Plc & Cordn.) NIT Agartala
Dr. Ardhendu Saha

H.O.D.. Electrical Engg. and
Electrical & Electronics Engg. Department
NIT Agartala

Dr. Aparna Nath

H.0.D., Physics. NIT Agartala

Sri Manish Pal

HOD Civil. NIT Agartala

Dr. A. K. Das.

HOD, ME & PE Deptt., NIT Agartala
& Professor VC ( T& P)

15" January, 2008 in the Conference Room of NIT Agartala

Chairman

Member

Member

Member

Member

Member

Member

Member

Member

Member

Member

Member

Member

Member

Member


--- Page 2 ---
16) Sri M. K. Deb Barma Member
H.O.D., Comp. Sc. & Engg.

17) SriApu Kr. Saha Member
HOD Math Deptt.

18) Sri Priyanath Das Member
Chief Warden & Asst. Professor, NIT Agartala

19) Dr. N.C. Pal Invitee Member
Asst. Professor, NIT Agartala

20) Sri Ratul Das lnvitee Member
Asst. Professor, NIT Agartala

21) Smt. Rama Deb Barma Invitee Member
Asst. Professor, NIT Agartala

22) Dr. D. Bhattacharjee Member-Secretary

Registrar (i/c), NIT Agartala

Prof S. C. Saha, Chairman, Senate of NIT Agartala welcomed all the members of the
Senate including the senior members like Prof. P.B.Datta Gupta, Prof. Nitindranath Som and
Prof Samir Kr. Saha and discussed regarding their experiences and how best this institution

wil] grow with the active participation of faculty members, staff and students.

Agenda wise discussion were held and decisions are taken unanimously.
PART-A

Item No.2 : Confirmation of the Minutes of the Second Meeting of Senate

The Minutes of the second meeting of Senate held on 29" November.2007 were confirmed..

Item No.3 : Action Taken on the decision of the Second Meeting of Senate

he action taken report is also confirmed by the Senate

PART-B

Item No.4 Approval of the published results (Provisionally) of ODD Semester

T

SENATE has approved the provisionally published results of ODD Semester
Examinations,

Item No.5 Approval of the formation of DUPC and BUGS as per the B.Tech Regulation

SENATE has approved the Board of Undergraduate Studies (BUGS).

But, the Departmental Undergraduate Programme Committee (DUPC) may be re-
constituted making the changes tm the rule that all faculty members of the concerned department
will be the member of DUPC and one member will be from cach supporting/participating

2


--- Page 3 ---
department (i.e the other department takes the classes of that concerned department). Based on
that decision, DUPC may be formed for all departments and notified.

Item No.6 Approval of the Rules & Regulation of NEW B.Tech Course with
amendment alongwith abstract of rules applicable to 2" year,3™ year and
4" year students.

The detailed Rules & Regulations of B.lech Course offered in NIT Agartala ts
approved with some modifications given below:

a) All faculty members of the concerned department will be the member of DUPC and
one member will be from each supporting/participating department (i.¢ the other
department takes the classes of that concerned department).

b) In case of Amendment. 16.2(C ) (New insertion should be) If any student caught red
handed for unfair means during examination, then he/she will be called before the
disciplinary Committee (to be formed before the commencement of the
examination(ODD/EVEN)) to explain his/her position against the complain made and
if he/she found guilty, then his/her punishment will be decided by the BUGS on
recommendation of disciplinary Committee. Punishment may be the cancellation of
al] examination of all subjects appeared/ cancellation of all subjects appeared since
caught red handed for unfair means/debarring the students from participating in
academic activities for six months, one year or more depending upon the gravity of
the guiltiness of the student,

c) Incase of Amendment, 4.4 (New insertion ) is withdrawn,
d) Incase of Amendment, 4.5 would be 4.4
e) Grade point may be kept as single digit.

f) Conversion of marks into grade point should be done through statistical analysis.

go
pears

In case of present rule applicable to existing students of 2" year. 3 year and 4”
year, insertion clause 22 has been withdrawn and clause 21 is acceptable as per clause
(b) mentioned in this item no.6.

(he members expressed that Workshops may be done on Grading and Credit System at NIT
Agartala before finalizing the Rules and Regulations of B.Tech Course in totality. However, the
present one will continue.

Item No.7 Approval of the Course structure of 1°' Year as per the NEW B.Tech
Regulation

Senate has approved the |“ year course curricula of B.Tech course of the present
students. Course structure of remaining year has been circulated among the members and
requested them for sending their views so that it can be tabied in the next Senate meeting for
kind approval of the same.


--- Page 4 ---
to| tol

item No.8

     

Selection of Logo of NIT Agartala and Approyal thereof.

The SENATE has approved the Logo of NIT Agartala.

Item No.9 Introduction of PG Courses in NIT Agartala

After threadbare discussion on the issue, the Senate has approved the one
PG course in each department of Civil Engineering (Already decided by BOG Meeting in the
month of June,2007), Mechanical Engineering and Electrical Engineering Department for
starting in the Academic Year 2008-2009 for keeping ‘the pace with the Research and
Development. The departmentwise PG Course is given below :

 

 

 

 

 

SI.No. | a Department Name of the PG Course
Civil Engineering __ . Structural Engineering ——__ :
__| Mechanical Engineering ' Thermal Science and Engineering

_ Electrical § ngineering : Power Electronics and Drives

 

The Chairman of the SENATE (i.e Director, NIT Agartala) requested Prof. P.B.Datta
Gupta (in Electrical Engg.), Prof. Nitindranath Som (in Civil Engg.) and Prof. Samir Saha
(in Mechanical Engg.) to help in preperation of the detailed course curriculae and to take
classes during the starting of the PG courses and they have also agreed to help the institute
in all positive ways.

item No.10 Ratification of the few decisions taken 1°' SENATE meeting
The SENATE has ratified the item (a) and (c) and expressed non-relevancy on

item (6). That ts item no. (b) is withdrawn from ratification.

The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the chair.

(Dr. S.C. Saha) \ ¢ | a (Dr. D. Bhattacharjet)
Chairman Member-Secretary
