
--- Page 1 ---
es
Ss
Azadi Ka

 

 

SCHOLARSHIP
MANUAL

ACADEMIC YEAR 2022-23

eS

As of August 2022

Amrit Yahotsav


--- Page 2 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS

¢ INTRODUCTION

¢ SALIENT FEATURES OF ICCR SCHOLARSHIPS

“¢ ICCR SCHOLARSHIPS AT A GLANCE

¢ ICCR SCHOLARSHIP SCHEMES

“* SCHEME-WISE ALLOCATION OF SCHOLARSHIP SLOTS

“¢ SCHOLARSHIP PROCESS - FLOW CHART

¢¢ GUIDELINES FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS

¢* ICCR ALUMNI AWARD

** TESTIMONIALS OF ICCR ALUMNI

¢¢ FOREIGN STUDENTS’ PARTICIPATION IN CULTURAL ACTIVITIES

& ZONAL/SUB-ZONAL OFFICES OF ICCR

 

3-4

9-10

11

12-18

19-20

21-25

26-29

30-31


--- Page 3 ---
Introduction

 

The Indian Council for Cultural Relations
(ICCR), an autonomous organization under the
Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), was
established in 1950 with the primary objectives
of establishing, reviving and strengthening
cultural relations and mutual understanding
between India and other countries.

lis aims, as enunciated in the Memorandum of
Association, are:

» To participate in the formulation and
implementation of policies and programmes
related to India’s cultural relations with other
countries;

» To foster and strengthen cultural relations
and mutual understanding between India and
other countries;

>» To promote cultural exchanges with other
countries and peoples; and

» To establish and develop relations with
national and international organizations in the
field of culture.

ICCR has been playing an equally important
role in the field of education for international
students in India. It offers a number of
scholarships to foreign nationals to pursue
higher studies in Indian Central/State
Universities and other recognized institutes of
higher education and learning.

Scholarships and welfare of International
Students

India has been an attraction for students from
abroad since ancient times. Scholarships are
an important means to encourage foreign
nationals to study in India and learn about
various facets of India and its culture, such as
ancient Indian systems of medicine,
performing arts as also contemporary subjects,
such as_ science, technology, liberal arts,
engineering and agriculture. They are also an
important vehicle of outreach and create
goodwill about India and what it has to offer to
the world in cultural and academic fields.

Through its scholarship programme, people
from different parts of the world have benefited
from ICCR. On the one hand, ICCR has helped
various countries in capacity-building by
providing scholarships to foreign students in
the professional fields like engineering,
agriculture, management etc.. On the other
hand, it has promoted Indian culture by
providing scholarships to pursue courses in
Indian dance, music, Yoga, Ayurveda and
Indian languages. Many of ICCR Alumni have
achieved positions of influence in_ their
respective countries and each ICCR scholar is
India's goodwill Ambassador abroad.


--- Page 4 ---
Salient Features of ICCR Scholarships

 

   
 
   
 
   
 

India is known as an education hub attracting
international students from all over the world.
India’s diversity and vibrant history offer a broad
range of options for students. With an opportunity
to experience both a rich and diverse civilization as
well as a rapidly growing country on the cutting
edge of economic/technological revolution,
studying in India has much to offer, whether it is
Engineering, IT, Philosophy or in Indian Culture,
etc.

ICCR annually awards about 3,900 scholarships
under 21 different schemes to foreign nationals
from about 190 countries. Amongst these 21
schemes, six are funded by ICCR from its own
grant and others are administered on behalf of
Ministry of External Affairs and Ministry of AYUSH.

Students have a wide range of options to choose
from in terms of courses including for professional
courses, like engineering, pharmacy, accountancy,
business administration, management, and also
culture-related courses such as Indian dance, music,
painting, sculpture etc.

   
 

As one of its mandate to promote international
exchanges, ICCR’s scholarship programmes for
international students help to promote cultural and
academic exchanges with the world.

   

The courses offered for scholarship studies are for
Under-graduation, Post-graduation and PhD
levels. In any academic year, ICCR supports about
7000 foreign students who study at various
Central/State University, Institutes, NITs and
Agricultural Institutions etc.


--- Page 5 ---
Salient Features of ICCR Scholarships

 

   
   
 
   

To make foreign students feel at home and
familiarize them with the Indian way of life, the
Council also arranges cultural immersion
programmes, orientation programmes for the
students and also arranges participation of
international students in ICCR’s cultural activities
including summer and winter camps. Republic Day,
Independence Day, Diwali, Holi, etc are also
celebrated in conjuction with Zonal & Sub Zonal
offices and/or respective Universities/Institutes.

   
 

Scholarship programmes are managed/administered at
the local level by ICCR’s 5 Zonal and 6 Sub-Zonal
offices for ensuring continous welfare of the foreign
students spread across all over India.

Scholarship benefits include stipend (encompassing
living allowance, hostel fee/house rent allowance,
annual contingency allowance & thesis charges) and
tution/other compulsory fee paid directly to the
University/Institutes (excluding refundable fee)

  
 

The admissions and scholarships are applied for and
managed through ICCR's “Admissions to Alumni (A2A
Portal - http://a2ascholarships.icer.gov.in/)”.

With the introduction of the A2A portal from the
academic year 2018-19, ICCR_ scholarship
programmes are not only digitized for aspiring
foreign students but also have become convenient,
offering wide choices to the students and linking the
applicants, Universities/Institutes, Indian Missions
and ICCR/its Zonal & Sub Zonal offices seamlessly.

   

The portal contains all relevant information regarding
ICCR-sponsored scholarship schemes and other
information like  list/details of the Indian
Universities/Insititutes, courses offered by them and

guidelines of scholarship schemes.


--- Page 6 ---
ICCR Scholarships at a Glance (Academic Year 2022-23)

 

students from 190 countries are
studying in India under ICCR
scholarship schemes

 

subjects studied by foreign students
that include Agriculture, Artificial
Intelligence, Biotechnology, Business
Studies, Classical Indian Dance,
Music, Commerce, Economics,
Engineering/IT; Indian languages,
Liberal arts, Management, Philosophy,
Political Science, Yoga etc. (Medical
Science and Integrated courses like for
law are not included).

 

applications for scholarship were
L 5885 received in 2022-23.

 

cities of India have the major
concentration of foreign students -
Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Delhi,
Hyderabad, Pune and Kolkata

 

 

Universities and Institutions where
ICCR scholars are currently studying
across India

 

scholarships were offered in 2022-23

 

Zonal and Sub-Zonal offices in different
cities of India and ICCR headquarters at
New Delhi look after welfare of foreign
students


--- Page 7 ---
ICCR Scholarship Schemes (2022-23)

 

Atal Bihari Vajpayee General Scholarship
Scheme (ICCR) (formerly General
Scholarship Scheme) - For the nationals of
122 countries namely: Albania, Andorra,
Antigua & Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Belgium, Bolivia,
Bosnia & Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei,
Cambodia, Cook Islands, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Croatia, Czech Republic, Dominican
Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador,
Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
Haiti, Holy See, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kiribati, Kyrgyzstan, Lao PDR, Latvia,
Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Malaysia, Maldives,
Marshall Islands, Micronesia, Moldova,
Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Myanmar,
Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, Nicaragua,
Niue, North Macedonia, Oman, Palau,
Palestine, San Marino, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Reunion Island (France), Paraguay,
Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of
Korea, Russia, Saint Kitts & Nevis, Saint
Lucia, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Slovak
Republic, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain,
St. Vincent & Grenadines, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand,
Tonga, Turkmenistan, Timor-Leste, Trinidad
& Tobago, Turkey, Tuvalu, UAE, Ukraine,
United Kingdom, United States of America,
Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela,
Vietnam and Yemen.

The Council has introduced return airfare
for all under this scheme w.e.f 2022-23. The
earlier students will continue to be
governed by earlier guidelines.

Suborno Jayanti Scholarship Scheme
(ICCR) - The scholarships to Bangladesh
nationals will be offered under one scheme
“Suborno Jayanti Scholarship Scheme”
subsuming all other schemes under which
scholarships were being offered till now.

Dr. A.P.J Abdul Kalam Commonwealth
Scholarship Scheme (ICCR) (formerly
Commonwealth Scholarship Scheme) -
For the nationals of Commonwealth
countries.

Nehru Memorial Scholarship Scheme
(ICCR) — For the nationals of Sri Lanka.

Dr. S. Radhakrishnan Cultural Exchange
Scholarship Scheme (ICCR) (formerly
CEP/EEP Scholarship Scheme) - For the
nationals of 29 countries namely, Australia,
Belarus, Brazil, Cambodia, Canada, China,
Colombia, Cuba, France, Guyana,
Hungary, Indonesia, Israel, Kuwait, Laos,
Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Myanmar,
Norway, Romania, Russia, Slovenia, Spain,
Syria, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Vietnam
and Yemen.


--- Page 8 ---
ICCR Scholarship Schemes (2022-23)

 

Lata Mangeshkar Dance & Music
Scholarship Scheme (ICCR) (formerly
ICCR Scholarship Scheme for Dance &
Music) — For the nationals of all the countries
to pursue courses in Indian dance, music,
sculpture making, Indian theatre, cuisine etc.

Silver Jubilee Scholarship Scheme (MEA) —
For the nationals of Nepal.

Aid to Bhutan Scholarship Scheme (MEA)
— For the nationals of Bhutan.

Aid to Maldives Scholarship Scheme
(MEA) — For the nationals of Maldives.

Aid to Mongolia Scholarship Scheme
(MEA) — For the nationals of Mongolia.

Mekong Ganga Co-operation Scholarship
Scheme (MEA) — For the nationals of 5
Mekong Ganga countries namely, Cambodia,
Laos, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam.

Special Scholarship Scheme for Afghan
National (MEA) - For the nationals of
Afghanistan.

Scholarshipm Scheme for
Children/Dependents of Afghan National
Defence & Security Forces (MEA) — For the
nationals of Afghanistan, who are children/
dependents of Afghan National Defence &
Security Forces.

Africa Scholarship Scheme (MEA) — For
the nationals of 54 countries in the African
continent namely, Algeria, Angola, Benin,
Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote
d'lvore, Djibouti, DRC Congo, Egypt,
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon,
The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, South
Sudan, Rwanda, Sao Tome & Principe,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia,
South Africa, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania,
Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia and
Zimbabwe.

Nehru Memorial Scholarship Scheme,
Maulana Azad Scholarship Scheme and

Rajiv Gandhi Scholarship Scheme (MEA)
— For the nationals of Sri Lanka.

AYUSH Scholarship Scheme _ for

BIMSTEC Countries (MEA) — For the
nationals of 6 countries namely,
Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri
Lanka and Thailand to pursue courses in
Indian traditional medical systems AYUSH
(Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani,
Siddha and Homeopathy).


--- Page 9 ---
ICCR Scholarship Schemes (2022-23)

 

AYUSH Scholarship Scheme for Non-BIMSTEC Countries (Ministry of AYUSH) - For the
nationals of 102 countries namely, Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bhutan, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cambodia,
Canada, Chile, PR of China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Dominican
Republic, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary,
Indonesia, Iran, lraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao
PDR, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Oman,
Palestine, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Serbia, Singapore, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad &
Tobago, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, USA,
Uzbekistan, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia and Zimbabwe to pursue courses in Indian traditional,
medical systems AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy).

AYUSH Scholarship Scheme for Malaysia (Ministry of AYUSH) — For the nationals of
Malaysia to pursue courses in Indian traditional medical systems AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga &

Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy).

AYUSH Scholarship Scheme for South East Asian Region (SEAR) Countries (Ministry of
AYUSH) - For nationals of selected SEAR countries namely, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Republic of
Korea, Indonesia, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Timor-Leste to pursue
courses in Indian traditional medical systems AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani,
Siddha and Homeopathy).


--- Page 10 ---
   

Scheme-wise Allocation Of Scholarship Slots

 
 

 

(Academic Year 2022-23)

SCHOLARSHIP SCHEME

Atal Bihari Vajpayee General Scholarship
Scheme (ICCR) (formerly General Scholarship
Scheme)

Suborno Jayanti Scholarship Scheme
for the nationals of Bangladesh (ICCR)

Dr. A.P.J Abdul Kalam Commonwealth Scholarship

SLOTS

24

 

COURSES OFFERED

  
 

  

UG, PG, Ph.D. Courses

 
 

UG, PG, Ph.D. Courses

  

UG, PG, Ph.D. Courses

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a: Scheme (ICCR) (formerly Commonwealth
Scholarship Scheme)
4 Nehru Memorial Scholarship Scheme for the
| nationals of Sri Lanka (ICCR) 60 UG Courses
Dr. S. Radhakrishnan Cultural Exchange Scholarship
5. | Scheme (ICCR)(formerly CEP/EEP Scholarship UG, PG, Ph.D. courses
Scheme)
Lata Mangeshkar Dance & Music Scholarship Indian D ude Sauiah ki
6. | Scheme (ICCR) (formerly ICCR Scholarship FSAI SACS, ae) reentrant
. Indian Theatre, Cuisine Courses
Scheme for Dance & Music)
7. Silver Jubilee Scholarship Scheme
for the nationals of Nepal (MEA) Ce EBs
8. Aid to Bhutan Scholarship Scheme (MEA) BE. B. Tech. courses
9. | Aid to Maldives Scholarship Scheme (MEA) 20 UG including Engineering
10. | Aid to Mongolia Scholarship Scheme (MEA) 20 UG, PG, Ph.D. courses
11. | Mekong Ganga Co-operation (MGC) 50 UG, PG, Ph.D. courses
Scholarship Scheme (MEA)
12. Special Scholarship Scheme for Afghan Nationals 4000 UG, PG, Ph.D. courses
(MEA)
Scholarship Scheme for children/dependents of
13. | Afghan National Defence and Security 103 UG, PG, courses
Forces (MEA)
14. | Africa Scholarship Scheme (MEA) 908 UG, PG, Ph.D. courses
15. | Nehru Memorial Scholarship Scheme for the 60
nationals of Sri Lanka (MEA) nee eee
16. | Maulana Azad Scholarship Scheme for the 50 PG in Agriculture Science

nationals of Sri Lanka (MEA)

 

& Engg. courses

    

   

 


--- Page 11 ---
Scheme-wise Allocation Of Scholarship Slots
(Academic Year 2022-23)

S.NO. SCHOLARSHIP SCHEME SLOTS COURSES OFFERED

17 Rajiv Gandhi Scholarship Scheme for the BE. B. Tech Courses
nationals of Sri Lanka (MEA)

. UG, PG, Ph.D. Courses in Ayurveda,
AYUSH Scholarship Sch for BIMSTEC ,
Counties (MEA) ee Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha,

Homoeopathy.

 

AYUSH Scholarship Scheme for Non-BIMSTEC UG, PG, Ph.D. Courses in Ayurveda,
Countries (Ministry of AYUSH) Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha,
Homoeopathy.

 

UG, PG, Ph.D. Courses in Ayurveda,
Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha,
Homoeopathy.

AYUSH Scholarship Scheme for Malaysia
(Ministry of AYUSH)

 

AYUSH Scholarship Scheme for South East UG, PG, Ph.D. Courses in Ayurveda,
Asian Region (SEAR) Countries Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha,
(Ministry of AYUSH) Homoeopathy.

 


--- Page 12 ---
Scholarship Admission Process Flow Chart

 

Students |

— Os
"Mission
eS “Ho

  

 

_*In case Association of Indian Universities (AIU) Equivalence Certificate is required, the offer letter for

allotment of scholarship should be processed only after the AIU Equivalence Certificate has been
obtained by the student at own cost.

 

 


--- Page 13 ---
General Guidelines for International Students

 

under ICCR Scholarships

1. DOs and DON'Ts for filling in the application on A2A portal

(i) All applications will be accepted online through A2A ICCR Scholarship Portal (http://
a2ascholarships.iccr.gov. in) only.

(ii) Applications will not be accepted physically in Indian Missions abroad/ICCR/Universities.

(iii) Applications will not be accepted locally (in India).

(iv) Applications should be complete in every detail to avoid rejection of the same by the A2A
portal/University/Institute.

(v) In case of documents available in local language, applicants are requested to upload certified
copies of translations of these documents in English. In case of unavailability of English transcript, the
application will be rejected.

(vi) Applicants applying for Doctoral courses should submit a synopsis along with the application.
(vil)Applicants wishing to pursue performing arts course should upload the latest video/audio/
YouTube link of their performance.

(viii) Students who are already pursuing Under Graduate (UG) and Post Graduate (PG) courses in
India and intend to pursue further studies will have to apply afresh through A2A portal to process their
applications, as the applications will not be entertained and processed physically.

(ix) CCR scholarships are meant for admissions only in the Indian State/Central Universities/|Institutes
or colleges affiliated to and recognized by the Indian State and Central Universities. The list of such
Universities/Institutes, empanelled with ICCR, is available on the Portal.

(x) [CCR does not offer scholarship for Private colleges or Universities.

(xi) Student has the option of applying in 5 Universities/Institutes of his/her choice in preferential order
through A2A Scholarship Portal.

(xii) In order to pursue studies in engineering/science, students should have studied Mathematics,
Physics and Chemistry at Higher Secondary levels.

(xiii) In Biology-based science subjects, students should have studied Biology, Physics and Chemistry
at Higher Secondary.

(xiv) In order to avoid rejection from Universities/colleges, applicants are advised to make their subject
choices carefully, based on the subjects they have studied at Higher Secondary.

(xv) For admission in UG level courses, it is compulsory to have 10+2 i.e; (12 years) of schooling. It
is, therefore, necessary that the student applying for UG level courses must complete 12 years of
schooling.

(xvi) List of Universities empanelled with ICCR, where applicant can apply, is available on A2A Portal.
(xvii) List of courses offered and the criteria/pre-requisites for admission in these Universities/Institutes
may be referred to on the respective University website by the applicant. This is to avoid time delays in
processing applications. A2A Portal has web links of each of the University and courses offered by
them.

©


--- Page 14 ---
General Guidelines for International Students

 

under ICCR Scholarships

(xviii) Applicants are advised to read all the instructions on the online portal for filling online
application and leave no field blank.
(xix) Subsequent change of University/Institute or course after |CCR scholarship has been awarded will
not be entertained.
(xx) Students should not be allowed or supposed to do any part time/full time job along with his/her
studies.
(xxi) Age limit for availing scholarship

Minimum/Maximum Age limit for students under various courses is as under:-

PhD — 45 Years maximum

UG/PG — 18- 30 Years

2. Selection of Subjects, Courses and Universitie

i. For admission to science/engineering courses, an applicant should have studied Mathematics,
Physics and Chemistry at Higher Secondary level to be eligible.

ii. Applicants should clearly mention the course to which they are seeking admission while mentioning
choices.

iii. For choosing options for Universities, applicant must refer to University website or list of eligible
Universities. List of Universities is available on the A2A Portal.

iv. As IITs provide admission in B.Tech Course through a separate procedure, ICCR scholarships are not
offered for the same.

v. For MBA, GMAT score is mandatory.

vi. ICCR does not accept applications for Casual Research/ Diplomas/ Short-term courses.

vii. |CCR does not offer scholarship for MBBS/BDS courses. Also, integrated courses such as in law are
not offered.

viii. Applicants of Ph.D. courses should upload Synopsis (Proposal) of the research work.

3. Medium of instruction and English proficiency

i. Medium of instruction is English in all the Universities in India. Applicants should therefore have good
knowledge of English to the extent that they are able to speak fluently in English and comprehend
lessons in English without any difficulty.

ii. While filling the application, the applicant has to write a 500 word essay in English language, on one
of the topics / subjects mentioned in the A2A Portal.

iii. There is an optional provision of providing marks obtained in English Proficiency Test like
TOFEL/ILETS etc. Only the marks obtained in such exams should be filled in.

4. More than one application of one candidate on A2A Portal will lead to disqualification of candidate.

@


--- Page 15 ---
General Guidelines for International Students

under ICCR Scholarships

 

5. It is a compulsory requirement of Indian Universities/institutes for foreign students to have a passport
to study in India, which also include applicants from countries not requiring passport for travel to India.

6. Passport size photograph of applicant with white background and visibility of both ears should be
uploaded.

7. The application once submitted by student will directly go to selected Universities/Institutes through
A2A Portal.

8. The application will be scrutinized by the respective Universities/Institutes for eligibility of admission
of applicant in the applied course and stream.

9. Indian Universities/educational institutes are autonomous and independent bodies and have their own
eligibility criteria. It is, therefore, for the students to satisfy themselves about the course chosen and
about the Universities. Decision on admission is solely that of the respective University/Institute and
queries on this thus should not be directed to ICCR. Admission is provisional till the time Universities
satisfy themselves of the authenticity of requisite documents from the students. If on arrival, it is found
that the student does not possess the required original documents on the basis of which the admission
has been finalized, the students will themselves be responsible for the consequences including denial of
admission by the Universities and student will have to return to his/her country at own cost. ICCR will not
bear cost on such student's return airfare. The students while coming to India to join their respective
University/Institute should invarably bring the following documents:

(i) Original documents relating to their qualifications for verification by the respective University/Institute.
(ii) English Translation of the documents in original.

(iii) Certified copy of the syllabus of the last qualifying examination.

(iv) Valid passport with appropriate visa. Student visa for Undergraduate/Post graduate studies and
research visa for Ph D studies.

(v) Award of scholarship letter issued by the concerned Indian Mission/Post abroad.

(vi) Undertaking from the student that the course and the University as conveyed is acceptable and that
he/she will not request for change at the time of admission.

(vii) Undertaking from the student that they have read the terms and conditions/Guidelines of ICCR
scholarship as specified in the Scholarship Manual 2022-23 [The one time undertaking will be applicable
even when scholarship manual is updated (as per para 36 like provision)], available on ICCR website.

10. Admission of student by one or more than one Indian University does not guarantee award of ICCR
sponsored scholarship. Indian Mission/Post for the respective country will decide on the award of
scholarship to applicant and will issue letter of award of scholarship. For award of scholarship, the
decision of the concerned Indian Mission/Post is final and any query regarding it should be taken
up with them.

@


--- Page 16 ---
General Guidelines for International Students

 

under ICCR Scholarships

11. It is reiterated that the admission remains provisional till the time Universities verify the authenticity
of original documenis. If original documents are not found in order on which provisional admission has
been granted by University, the admission offer will be revoked and the student(s) will have to return to
their country at their own cost. In case Association of Indian Universities (AlU) Equivalence Certificate
is required the offer letter for allotment of scholarship should be processed only after the AIU
Equivalence Certificate has been obtained by the student. Once the scholarship is considered, Indian
Mission/Post will issue an offer of admission with award of scholarship for acceptance of by applicant.
Applicant will have 7 days time to accept / reject the offer. In case applicant wishes to accept the offer,
an automated acceptance letter, signed digitally by applicant, has to be submitted by the applicant on
portal for further process.

12. After submitting the acceptance, the applicant should approach the concerned Indian Mission/Post
for issuance of appropriate Student/Research Visa with the required documents and letter of award of
ICCR scholarship.

13. Once the Indian visa is granted, a copy of the visa should be uploaded by the applicant on A2A
Portal.

14. Pre-departure formalities

(i) The student should request the Indian Mission/Post to book the ticket up to (if offered in the
scholarship) the airport nearest to the place of University/college where the admission has been
confirmed. While booking the ticket, students must ensure that there is sufficient gap between the
timings of the connecting flights so that there is enough time to complete the transit formalities,
particularly in view of the Covid-19 induced restrictions or regulations. There have been instances when
the students have missed their connecting flights due to insufficient layover.

(ii) The student should also check the allowed baggage regulations. There may be difference of
baggage allowance in domestic and international flights. Students must carry the baggage equivalent
to the limit of the lower category (domestic / international). In any case, ICCR will not pay any additional
amount on account of excess baggage.

(iii) Immediately on purchase of ticket, the students should upload their travel details on the A2A portal
to enable the relevant ICCR Zonal and sub Zonal Office to make necessary arrangements. Flight details
should ideally be conveyed at least 15 days prior to the journey. If airport reception faciliation is not
required, students should specifically mention that they do not require any assistance at the airport on
arrival.

(iv) Students should go through the Covid Protocol/ requirements at all relevant points in their route
such as RT-PCR test/ quarantine requirements and follow the same to avoid any complications. Student
may check with the concerned Indian Mission/post the latest Covid-19 regulations in India applicable to
them at the time of their travel. All such expenses on Covid-19 including on related test will not be borne
by ICCR.

G


--- Page 17 ---
General Guidelines for International Students

 

under ICCR Scholarships

(v) Students should carry yellow fever/other such vaccination certificate wherever necessary.

(vi) Students are advised to carry with themselves at least US$ 700 or equivalent to Indian Rupees.
50,000/- to meet immediate expenses. This is suggested since there may be a time period between first
arrival and receipt of first stipend.

(vii) On arrival, students should contact the respective Zonal/Sub Zonal Office of ICCR and get
themselves registered with them. Students must also get themselves registered with Foreign Regional
Registration Office (FRRO) within a period of 14 days of their arrival in India. This is in addition to
contacting the University/Institute being joined. As a good practice, the students should also inform their
respective Embassy/diplomatic representative in India about their stay in India on arrival.

(viii) Each student has to procure a medical insurance policy for a value of at least Rs. Five lakhs or
equivalent. As per the latest ICCR guidelines, medical insurance is compulsory for the students (at
their cost). Students may buy medical insurance in their country before departure or on their arrival in
India. It is up to the students to select the insurance package. During the ICCR scholarship in India, in
case of no medical insurance, ICCR is not liable to bear the medical expenses of the scholar. In case
of exigencies, the student should contact his/her respective Embassy/diplomatic representative in
India.

15. Once travel arrangements are completed, ‘Travel Details' should be filled in by the applicant on A2A
Portal. An email should also be sent to the International Student Advisor (ISA) of the University
endorsing copy to ICCR Zonal/Sub Zonal Office for arranging reception on arrival in India. This should
be done at least 15 days prior to departing for India so that transit accommodation details and
coordinates of concerned person(s) who will receive them are informed to the student.

16. On arrival, student is advised to buy a local Mobile Sim-Card.

17. On arrival a welcome kit shall be handed over to student. The kit will contain addresses, email,
mobile no. of Zonal/Sub Zonal Office, International Student Advisor (ISA), FRRO, city guide booklet,
financial norms of Scholarship Scheme in which student is enrolled, bank account opening process and
any other relevant information as deemed appropriate by Zonal/ Sub Zonal Office.

18. Immediately on their arrival, students will have to open an account with bank for which bank
opening form and a letter from ICCR’s Zonal/Sub Zonal Office/University concerned would be required
recommending immediate opening of bank account at the nearest branch of State Bank of India.
Students should carry with them passport-size photographs for opening the bank account. It is
important to note that student will not be paid any money in cash or otherwise till the bank account is
opened. Therefore student must carry minimum money as advised above to meet initial expenditure.
Three months advance stipend/scholarship through direct bank transfer will be released once bank
account is opened and registered with ICCR.

®


--- Page 18 ---
General Guidelines for International Students

 

under ICCR Scholarships

19. After completing the requisite formalities, student should fill up the Joining Report (JR) in prescribed
proforma and get it duly counter signed by International Student Advisor/Head of Department of
University. The columns related to Tuition fee/other compulsory fees structure for the entire duration of
course in the Joining Report are to be filled in and certified by ISA/HoD of University/Institute. While
filling up the JR, it is advised to fill the details related to date of birth, nationality, course, college details,
registration number etc with utmost care.

20. The Joining Report complete in all aspects should be uploaded on the A2A portal/submitted with
concerned Zonal/Sub Zonal office within one month of joining the University/Institute. It may be noted
that unless the JR is received by the Zonal/Sub-Zonal office, except for advance stipend, no other
money will be released.

21. ICCR will aim to organize an Orientation Programme for newly arriving students within the first few
weeks of their arrival. Cultural immersion programmes shall be organized by Zonal/Sub Zonal Office in
due course.

22. ICCR Zonal/ Sub Zonal offices have a WHATSAPP group for foreign students and shall remain in
touch with them through it or other means on a regular basis.

23. The student should ensure that regular half yearly progress report/results of semester exams along
with certificate of attendance issued by Head of Depariment/ ISA of University/Institute and the valid
medical insurance policy are submitted to ICCR Zonal/Sub Zonal Office for smooth release of stipend
etc.

24. After admission, the students are advised to stay in the University/college hostel. However, in case
they choose to stay in private accommodation, they will have to give an undertaking that they
themselves are responsible for their security. If they are staying in University/College hostel, they would
have to adhere to hostel policies. Failing to observe hostel rules will lead to disciplinary action by
University/College.

25. Residential address outside of the enrolled University/Institute should be informed to ICCR Zonal
/Sub Zonal Office and FRRO compulsorily. In case of change of accommodation, the new address
should also be conveyed to ICCR Zonal/Sub Zonal Office and FRRO immediately.

26. ICCR has the right to bring in changes in the scholarship policy as well as financial terms of the
scholarship and implement it as and when it is decided so by ICCR under intimation/dissemination of
decision through Zonal/ Sub Zonal Offices, to which every current ICCR scholar has to abide.

2/7. No student shall indulge in criminal/anti-social activities or political activities or Anti-India activities or
in violation of the laws of India/relevant Indian State/UT. If found indulged in such activities and thus
rusticated by the University/Institute, the ICCR scholarship will be terminated immediately.

28. The scholarship tenure cannot exceed a period of 3 weeks after declaration of consolidated results
of all the semesters/final year by the respective University/Institute.

@


--- Page 19 ---
General Guidelines for International Students

under ICCR Scholarships

 

29. The tenure of scholarship for regular Ph.D student is 3 years. It should be an endeavour of each
research student to complete the dissertation work within 3 years of regular Ph.D. study tenure. In any
case, extant ICCR norms restrict the maximum period of scholarship up to 5 years for Ph.D course. In
addition ICCR provides maximum 6 months of scholarship to defend the thesis / for Viva Voce for Ph.D.

30.It is emphasized that |CCR scholarship is only for the individual applicant so awarded, for the duration
of the enrolled course in India. As such, ICCR is not liable in any manner, financially or otherwise, for
other individuals related to the ICCR scholar.

31. Students should keep informed the Zonal/Sub Zonal Office about their movement within India. If,
leaving for their country/abroad, intimation or permission from Zonal/Sub Zonal Office may be obtained.

32. Scholarship shall be disbursed on the basis of regular progress of the student at his/her course. In
case student fails in prescribed examination and does not get promoted to next level of
study/programme, the scholarship will be discontinued. No scholarship shall be paid for clearing backlog
(there is a special provision however for Afghan scholarship schemes).

33. In case a new student fails in first year, his/her scholarship would be suspended for one -year and
he/she would have to self finance his/her studies. Scholarship may be revived from next year (at the end
of 2nd year) provided student clears the first year. In case student fails second time, his/her scholarship
will stand terminated and he/she would have to complete his/her course as a self finance student or
return to his/her country on own expense, if so chosen. In any case, scholarship would not be given for
more than the prescribed length of course. The same applies if it occurs in any of the other years.

34. Student should fill up the Alumni Form available on A2A (http://a2ascholarships.iccr.gov.in/home)
Portal as well as on India Alumni portal (https://indiaalumni.almaconnect.com) before leaving India.
This will help alumni of |CCR to be in touch for future [CCR activities and will also be helpful in future for
Indian Missions/Posts abroad to remain engaged with the Alumni.

35. It should be ensured that the local bank account is closed before leaving India. This will ensure
security from misuse of the dormant bank account.

36. ICCR strives to ensure welfare of ICCR scholars during their stay in India. |CCR Hars and its
Zonal/Sub Zonal Offices welcome suggestions/feedback from its scholars any time.

37. This Manual supersedes provisions in previous versions and is applicable for all current ICCR
scholars in India. Supplementary regulations/provistions may be issued/intimated separately from time
to time

RKEEKK

©


--- Page 20 ---
ICCR Alumni Award

 

Recognizing the achievements of foreign students who have studied in India, “ICCR Distinguished
Alumni Award” was instituted in 2015. Award is conferred upon foreign nationals who have studied
in India, for their contribution to the promotion of understanding, goodwill and friendship between
India and people of their respective countries.

Recipients of ICCR Distinguished Alumni Award -

H.E. Mr. Le Luong Minh from Vietnam
H.E. Ms Zenebu Tadesse Woldetsadik from Ethiopia

Mrs. Milena Salvini from France

 

Dr. Soe Win from Myanmar
Mrs. Sarita Boodhoo from Mauritius

Prof. |. Ketut Widnya from Indonesia

 

Dr. Laura Gibratovna Yerekesheva from Kazakhstan

Dr. Galina Rousseva Sokolova from Bulgaria

Ms. Rezwana Choudhury Bannya from Bangladesh
Ms. Aishath Safoofa from Maldives

Dr. Saman Kelegama (Posthumously) from Sri Lanka
Ms. Dollaporn Phukkhong from Thailand

Dr. Sirojiddin S Nurmatov from Uzbekistan

 

H.E. Dr. Kaba Urgessa Dinssa from Ethiopia
Mr. Bui Ba Bong from Vietnam

Dr. Constantino Xavier from Portugal

 

Mr. Ajmal Hameed Abdulrahimza from Afghanistan

Mr. Damcho Dorji from Bhutan


--- Page 21 ---
ICCR Alumni Award

 

Recipients of ICCR Distinguished Alumni Award -

Mr. Mohammad Mirwais Balkhi from Afghanistan
Ms. Maqaddesa Yourish from Afghanistan
Ms. Monica de la Fuente from Spain

Mr. Tendai Padenga from Zimbabwe

 

Ms. Martine Metayer from France

Dr. RK Lal Mervin Dharmasiri from Sri Lanka

Dr. Riyad Mustafa Abushehadeh from Palestine

 

Mr. Rateb Noori from Afghanistan

Dr. Francesca Cassio from Italy

Mrs. Eat Sophea from Cambodia
Dr. Oscar Riembau Pujol from Spain

Dr. Irina Glushkova from Russia

H.E. Dr. Ergogie Tesfaye Woldemeskel from Ethiopia

Mr. Sonam Dorji from Bhutan

 


--- Page 22 ---
Testimonials of ICCR Alumni

 

“| travelled to Kerala for the first time in 2018, but for me all States of India are like my second home so | was
sure | will like it to stay and study in the University of Kerala.

ICCR provides a good opportunity to study and develop both personally and professionally for all
students under its scholarship schemes. |t broadens our personal view and educates us on many events
and situations happening in the world and creates learning and developing environment for all intemational
students in India_

Stay in Kerala under ICCR scholarship gave me opportunity to apply my capacity and develop my skills in
academic stream. | found out my abilities and participated in various academic and cultural programs which
Ms. Takhmina Sharepova, ICCR arranged for us as Intemational students. As an international student in India we always experience the
Tajikistan, . rich blend of hospitality and high respect to global community in the University of Kerala in all academic levels
Ph.D Management Studies like bachelor. Mast PhD candid

Kerala University ike bachelor, Master or candidates.

Joining Year: 2018

 

ICCR provides us with wide scope of activities, World Theatre Day, World Yoga Day, and many more
and it cares for our wellbeing. Thanks to |CCR because during stay in Kerala we feel like at home. ”

“During my stay in Goa as a Master's student under ICCR Scholarship, life was really very nice and
interesting. | panicularly experienced an interesting culture where people from different environment live
peacefully and respect each other regardless. of their differences. Most importantly, | found Goa
University to be a lovely educational institution. | enjoyed the way the lecturers interact with all students
without any exception and the latter expressed themselves a mutual cooperation in their community. This
helped me get wonderful skills and knowledge through leaming and made me not to feel alone in a
foreign country. Finally, the ICCR international desk care so much about international students to
make sure every international student is safe and getting a healthy life.”

 

Mare Ndayisenga,
Burundi,

M.S¢ Zoology,
Goa University
Joining Year: 2018
Passout: 2020

“India is one of among oldest countries in the world that has its own prominent identity. It is not only in this
modern day that people go to India and pursue their study. Even for centuries ago, people from various
countries came along and pursue their study at Nalanda University, one of the oldest universities in the
world. | was one of the lucky scholars from Indonesia that was granted the chance to study in India through
the General Scholarship Scheme by Indian Council for Cultural Relations for Post Graduate Course. | have
a special curiosity about India since childhood that drove me to apply for this scholarship. The study which
was conducted in English medium makes every student from any part of the world easily adapt with the
leaming environment. The availability of textbooks from various reputable publishers will boost our
knowledge and make the study easier. |CCR Regional Director where | studied as well as the
International Advisor are amazing and great personalities. They will always be there as our core

 

Agnesia Yolina ' supporter in any difficult situations that we can’t handle all alone. And they treat us just like their
a. family. As a newcomer, we may face challenges. But we need to build a mentality that we must finish what
Goa University we Started beautifully and successfully. And if the scholars keep that principle in their mind, we will have a
Joining Year: 2018 clear vision and mission during the stay of study duration there and we can complete the course

Passout: 2020 successfully and with good marks. India has 28 States and 8 Union Territories that we can make our own

choice of stay destination to pursue the study. And in between the stay, we can travel and visit places that
we might have seen in movies or on social media. So, enjoy the stay for the new students, work smart and
hard for the study. May the success and happiness be yours.”

@


--- Page 23 ---
Testimonials Of Alumni

 

 

Mohammed Abunahel,
Palestine,

Masters Mass Communication,
Tezpur Central University
Joining Year: 2019

Passout: 2021

“| have completed my M.Sc in Analytical Chemistry from K.J Somaiya College of Science and
Commerce. | would like to write a word of thanks for all the tireless work that you have given us at your
capacity as a person and at the level of the ICCR.

As one of the beneficiaries of ICCR Scholarship, | would like to thank the ICCR and the
Government of India for their generous, financial support towards my higher education.

During my two years in India | have learned many things from India that have sharpened my world view

and will help me in the whole journey of my life. All the spheres of life have been changed and | will never
forget what India has added to my life and believe that this will be my second home and will not hesitate

day | will be able to give back and help others get their dreams and goals a reality. Thank you very much.”

“fm a student from Palestine, pursuing Masters in Mass Communication from Tezpur Central University,
Tezpur, Assam. My experience as an international student has, overall, been positive: | have changed in ways
| would never have imagined. | am from Palestine, and India, to say the least is a very different environment
than where | used to live. | have come to India for higher studies through an ICCR scholarship (Indian
Council for Cultural Relations), but experiencing a new culture, new food habits and making new
friends — all these things have summed up into something significant in my life and memory which
makes me no longer feel like a stranger. | have celebrated Indian festivals such as Holi and Saraswati
Puja_ During my time here, | have picked up a little bit of the Assamese language and learned how to speak
it | have made lifelong friends with unforgettable memones. | leamed to cook some Assamese dishes,
participated in such activities as the wildlife safan in Namen national park, and learned endless things about
Hinduism and other dynamic Indian religions and culture.

As an intemational student at Tezpur University, | grew to be proud of my University, and | truly feel like | am
a part of this community. Education in India is not bound to a classroom; ICCR gave me an opportunity
to travel to different places. This chance allowed me to visit some places of South India. | explored the
villages in different places of India and experienced their way of living. This trip let me enjoy the natural
beauty of India; with my friends, | visited places like Sikkim, Shillona, Chemapunjee, Tezpur, Bangalore and
many more. Every place has its own natural beauty and unique culture. This tnp not only let me enjoy the
natural beauty of India, but also helped me to make some friends with unforgettable memones.

Last but not least, the moment | had been waiting for came true. This is a great opportunity to extend my
warmest appreciation to India and to the ICCR for allowing me to be part of this wonderful community.
Honestly, India is a great place to study and | really like India, so | am contemplating to continue further
advanced study here. | can hardly wait to perceive what different encounters and experiences are coming up
for me in the coming months.”

 

Malek Jacob Mayen,
to come back here when there is need. South Sudan,

M.Sc Analytical Chemistry,
Conclusively, this opportunity has allowed me to make my goals and dream a reality. | hope in turn one Mumbai University

Joining Year: 2018
Passout: 2020


--- Page 24 ---
Testimonials Of Alumni

 

 

IYIOLA OLUWAFERANMI
JOSEPH, Nigeria,

B.Tech Electonincs &
Communications Engineering
Delhi Technological University.
Joining Year: 2019

“| had had a mistaken idea about India before getting the ICCR scholarship, without which | would not
come to India and | would not complete my higher studies. To me, India was the country of Amitabh
Bachchan and Shahrukh Khan and nothing else. However, having the chance to come to India was like
giving some blind fellow eyes to take a real look at what there is. | came to know what India is for real.
Yes, India is the country of movies, dancing, singing, and arts, but also, it is the country of fast
development, technology, diversity. and humanity. Further, nothing is more significant than giving a
person the chance to have a better career, a better job, and a better income. All are possible now with
the knowledge and skills | got under the generous sponsorship of the ICCR. | believe that all the ICCR
students and scholars, just like myself, will always be thankful to the ICCR for giving them the

“| cannot but say a very big thank you to the Indian Council for Cultural Relations for the privilege to
be one of the beneficiaries of the African Scholarship scheme. Thanks to ICCR a boy with no proper
personal road map for his life became someone whom his colleagues comes to for guidance on how
to get things done properly.

My stay in India has besn unique and unforgettable because | got to expenence and see things from a
different perspective: India lives up to the title “Incredible India” like they say, and | must say India is home
anytime, any day!

Academically, itwas quite challenging at the beginning but it was just a reminder that | can always step up my
game which has helped me to improve so much. Getting trained as an enaineer in India has given me the
opportunity to stand out among my peers and it has also improved my insight. | hope to apply this knowledge
into making Africa a better continent.”

 

chance to learn, improve, and know this great future-leading country in a better way_ | love the sales IER SEM,
ICCR; | love India.” Ph.D. English,

 

Sphamandlal Luvuno,
South Africa,

MA Political Science,
Osmania University
Joining Year: 2016
Passout: 2018

Banaras Hindu University
Joining Year: 2017
Passout: 2022

“| completed my undergraduate BA Degree from Nizam College and Masters in Political Science from
Osmania University under ICCR scholarship scheme during 2016-2021. | come from a very humble
background and throughout my life | was always praying for an opportunity to further my studies and
my prayers were answered when | was granted an opportunity to study in India under ICCR
scholarship.

My journey in India began 2016, from day one | was fascinated by the large population, for the 1st time in my
life | was surrounded by so many people, as my journey continued | was adapting to the new lifestyle and
society, | learnt the importance of education in shaping a prosperous society through the teachings of
Jawaharlal Nehru and B. R Ambedkar. | also noticed that India is a country that is diverse and rich in
culture, through events organized by ICCR- Hyderabad. | was exposed to some of the cultures which
includes the likes of Kuchipudi and Kathak dance and the universal humanitarian culture inspired by
Mahatma Gandhi, the astonishing food culture and various Indian cuisines most famously briyanni. Those
with similar expenence will always say Incredible India.”


--- Page 25 ---
Testimonials Of Alumni

 

“| am from Zambia. I'm a recent graduate of Bachelor of Technology in Electrical Engineering from Delhi
Technological University in National Capital of Delhi.

| came to India in 2018 under the Indian Council for Cultural Relations(ICCR) scholarship. | was very ecstatic
about the idea of leaming from some of the greatest minds in the world. The very idea of pursuing my
undergraduate studies in India enthused in me a great sense of motivation to achieve my goals. India is
widely known as a centre of great scientific innovations, hence my interest to study Bachelor of Technology
in Electrical Engineering at a University as prestigious as Delhi Technological University. | got to meet people

 

irom different parts of the world and ideas were exchanged on how we all view the world. Academically, it was

HAMLET MUKUWE quite challenging at first due to different education system but with time and help from my peers and the
Bachelor of Technology in a ; ‘ ‘
Electrical Engineering faculty members, | adapted to the system. The administration was very helpful and co-operative during my
Delhi Technological University time at the University.

Joining: 2018

Passout: 2022

My entire stay in India has been eye opening and | have learnt a lot of things both in the academic and cultural
aspect. It was So nice getting to know and understand India’s rich culture. The spices, Chicken Tikka, Chole
Bhature not forgetting the famous chapati all form part of India's basic food consumption.

India boasts of historical features from the India gate of New Delhi to the Taj Mahal of Agra.

Having graduated in Electrical Engineering, my plan is to now focus on my masters in renewable energy. |
believe we can harness renewable sources of energy to sustain our ever growing world population. India has
been a good stepping stone and it will help me achieve my desired goal. Not only that, the network I've
created here will be very fundamental to my future endeavors.”

“Namaste, | am from Uganda the Pearl of Africa. | am a graduating student from Delhi Technological
University and I've been pursuing a Master's Degree of Business Administration specializing in Business
Analytics. | started this course in September 2020 during the pandemic and finalized it in 2022. | must
say that Delhi Technological University is a areat University thathas given me exposure to various walks
of life but most importanily in the field of academia. This has not only instilled more confidence in me but
also put me on the competitive edge as far as the career opportunities are concemed. Itis from this basis
that | got a dream of pursuing further studies on a PhD level as my next immediate plan.

 

Generally, life is India has been challenging and extremely interesting as well. This is due to its unique JJAGWE TONY RAYMOND,

Uganda,
climate changes and the differences in culture, religion, lanquage barrier etc. Living in India during my MA Business Acedbienaeas

studies has given exposure on its economic and political strategies that countries in Africa need to bench Delhi Technological University
Joining: 2018

mark to fasten their economic development. Passout:2022

| appreciate India's embracement of technology. great medical facilities and quality education. | am
indeed proud for a life well lived and deserving in this part of the world. Since my success has been
eamed, it's now time to explore and utilize opportunities there is. Dhanyavaad India.”


--- Page 26 ---
Testimonials Of Alumni

 

“I did my Ph.D (Law) at the Faculty of Law University of Delhi on ISSUES RELATED TO WORKING
WOMEN IN ORGANISED SECTOR: A COMPARATIVE STUDY OF LAWS AND PRACTICE IN INDIAAND
ARMENIA from 2016 to 2021.

My parents gave me wings, taught me to fly and ICCR provided me sky, with no limits...

To go, to say goodbye is always hard, it is harder when you leave a family behind. ICCR is the family that |
am leaving behind in my second home India. Role of ICCR in the joumey of the achievement of the set goals

 

of a foreign student is remarkable. ICCR is not a mere an organization providing financial support for

cary a educational purposes, ICCR is a strong pillar of each foreigner traveling behind the dreams of success and
Faculty of Law University of illumination. Each member of the ICCR family, stands for motivating, encouraging, comforting, securing,
Delhi advising throughout stay and education in India.

Joining Year: 2016

Passout: 2021

| express my gratitude to the Embassy of India in Armenia for introducing ICCR and providing me with the opportunity to continue my education

and discover the beauty of India.

India is the land which carries one of the earliest history of mankind. The land of great teachings, the land of Ganges, Buddha, the land which faced
conquests from abroad and the settlement of Dutch, Portuguese, English and French. The country was and is a gem on Earth with its unique ability
of uniting its nation. India’s biggest thumph is being true to the values of its own land and religious teachings through centuries. The secret of
uniting such a diverse nation is tolerance, love and respect of others’ way of life. The country has a beautiful harmonization for every being of its
land. This is the place where every teaching ts directed to the art of balancing. From insects to plants, from fishes to birds, from moon to sun, from
rain to wind, from human to animal every single aspect of the planet has Its own significance and importance in this country.

Going ahead in life, being exposed to a change Is a natural phenomenon, however there are some changes that are shaping our personality and
life; hence | am leaving with the most valuable treasures of India which are wisdom, tolerance, kindness, respect, mindfulness etc. Qualities gained
in India, with the help of ICCR are life changing.

| fold my hands and bow my head with the immense respect for everyone at the ICCR and Embassy of India in Armenia for their hard work and
care | have been provided during years of my education.”

“Studying in India has not only benefited me academically but also presented me with abundant
resources and great opportunities of getting connected and socializing with people of different
backgrounds within India and across the globe_ | would say with all the exposure and experience | got
from internship and interactions with various industry experts and great minds, it is more than a stepping
stone to get ahead both career wise and academically All these would have been unfathomable without
the opportunity provided to me by ICCR”

 

AHMED YUSUF OMEIZA,
Nigeria

B.Tech Software Engineering
Delhi Technological University

Joining Year: 2018 . ; 5 s
Passout: 2022 [Many other testimonials can be seen at the India Alumni Portal]

oi


--- Page 27 ---
Foreign Students’ participation

in Cultural Activities

 

* indtlional Day

 

 

Celebration of International Day of Yoga at
RO Bhubaneswar on 21st June 2019

 

Diwali celebrations by foreign students at
Convocation Hall, Mumbai University on
25th October 2019

 

 

 

Republic Day

celebrations

at ICCR,

Mumbai on

| 26th January
2020

  

Aeneas,

Diwali Milan Samaroh hosted by VC, Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, Vadodara in

 

i SUSTRERERTD

November 2020 at ICCR Gujarat

@


--- Page 28 ---
Foreign Students’ participation
in Cultural Activities

ne
—_— ne

HOOT FOUNDER LON DiTe
ete tees

 

 

 

ICCR Foundation Day at Mumbai ICCR Foundation Day at Bengaluru
on 9th April 2022 on 9th April 2022

 

 

Holi Celebrations by foregin students Foregin students participation in International
with Hon'ble Governor of Maharshtra at Yoga Day at Raj Bhawan, Mumbai on
Raj Bhavan, Mumbai on 19th March 2022 21st June 2022

a


--- Page 29 ---
Foreign Students’ participation
in Cultural Activities

 

 

 

il for Cultural Relations

The Indian Council for Cultural

Relations (ICCR) launched an

India Alumni Portal on 9 April

2022, at the ICCR headquarters

as a platform to connect with for-

p) eign students around the world
4 who have studied tn India.

@

  


--- Page 30 ---
Foreign Students’ participation
in Summer Camps in June 2022-23

, Gangtok, Sikkim

 

  
   

 
   

— ES => =e

Solang Valley, Himachal Pradesh

 

Atal Tunnel, Manali, Himachal Pradesh Students in Himachali dress in Manali,

Himachal Pradesh


--- Page 31 ---
Zonal and Sub Zonal Offices of ICCR

(As of 31 July 2022)

 

1. Zonal Office:

Name of Zonal Head

Shri. Manoj Kumar
Zonal Office (North),
Delhi

Ms. Minakashi
Mishra

Zonal office
(East), Kolkata

Jurisdiction

Delhi, Haryana, Himachal
Pradesh, Punjab,
Rajasthan, Uttarakhand,
Uttar Pradesh, Madhya
Pradesh, Chandigarh
(UT)

West Bengal, Odisha

rNe le | gsiots

USICR Press Building
near Zoology Department
North Campus, Chatra
Marg, University of
Delhi-11007

Rabindranath Tagore Centre
9A, Ho Chi Minh Sarani
Kolkata — 700 071

West Bengal

Contact Details

Mob: 9868861130
Ph: 27667373/74/75
Email: ro.delhincr@gov.in

Mob: +91-8130190700

Ph: 033- 22822895,
033-22823431

Fax : 033-22870028/4890
E-mail:rokolkata.iccr@gov.in;

 

Shri N. Munish Singh
Zonal Office
(North-East), Guwahati

Shri. Anurag Singh
Zonal Office
(West), Mumbai

Shri Sunil Kumar
Singh

Zonal Office (South),
Bengaluru

2. Sub-Zonal Offices:

          
       
  

. |Smt. Nishi Bala
Sub-Zonal Office, Pune

Assam, Arunachal
Pradesh, Nagaland,
Sikkim, Meghalaya,
Tripura, Manipur,
Mizoram

Gujarat, Maharashtra,
Goa

Karnataka, Tamil Nadu,
Telangana, Andhra
Pradesh, Kerala

Ganeshkhind
Pune - 411 007

Savitribai Phule University,

Annexure Pavilion
Shilpgram, Panjabari Road
Guwahati - 781 037
Assam

Videsh Bhavan

Plot No.C-45,Block G
Bandra-Kurla Complex,
Bandra (East)

Mumbai 400 051

No.7/2, Ist Floor, 2nd Main,
Palace Cross Road
Bangalore — 560 020
Karnataka

Mob: +91-8119923578

Ph. 0361-2335358

Fax: 0361-2335359

mail: roguwahati.iccr@gov.in;

Mob: +91-9793050044

Ph: 022-26520027 / 26520042/

26520043/ 022-26520041
E-mail: romumbai.iccr@gov.in,

Mob: +91-9953234234
Ph: 080-23462714, 23462715,
23566914

Fax: 080-23566917
E-mail: robengaluru.iccr@gov.in;

 

Mob: +91-9899087491
Ph:+91-20-25690084,
+91-20-25695464,

Email: ropune.iccr@gov.in

 

Dr. Jigar Inammdar

 

Sub-Zonal Office, Anmedabad

Hanumanji Temple,

 

Indian Council for Cultural Relations
04/19 & 04/20, HRDC Hostel, Teacher's
Quarters, Next to NRI Girls Hostel Near

Gujarat University Campus, Navrangpura,

   
       
     
     
   

Mob: 9925088855 (RD)/
9081122296(ROs)

Ph: 079-26300091, 26300046
Fax: 079-26300087

E-mail : roahmedabad.iccr@gov.in;

 

 


--- Page 32 ---
Zonal and Sub Zonal Offices of ICCR
(As of 31 July 2022)

Ss

 

 

NP eo Address Contact Details
3. | Shri. Naresh Gulati Brookside Cottage, New Assembly Mob: 91-8826905203
Sub-Zonal Office, Compound, Tel : 0364-2228573
Shillong Shillong-793 004 Fax : 0364-2220183
Meghalaya Email : roshillong.icer@nic.in
4.| Shri Arvind Kumar Indian Council for Cultural Relations Mob: 7080921503
Sub-Zonal Office, 3rd Floor, Passport Bhawan, Vipin Khand, | Ph:0522-2307570/2307572
Lucknow Gomti Naga, Lucknow-226010 Fax No.0522-2307580

E-mail: rolucknow.iccr@gov.in;

3. With Regional Passport Office

 

S.No Name of the Regional Head Address Contact Details
1. | Ms. Tavishi Behal Pandey, 67-68/40, Officers Flats Mob: 6200886755/ 09430825968
Regional Director, Patna Balley Road, Opposite Suchna Bhavan Ph: 0612-2204734, 2207378,
Patna, Bihar — 800 001 2545232 & 233

Fax: 0612-2227972
E-mail : ropatna.iccr@gov.in;

 

>. | Shri N.K. Shil, 46, Garden Avenue Mob: 9560474594
* | Regional Director, Jammu Behind Circuit House, Talab Tillo Ph: 0191-2555736
Jammu Fax: 0191-2578337

E-mail : rojammu.iccr@gov.in;

 


--- Page 33 ---
 

Indian Council for Cultural Relations

Azad Bhawan, I.P. Estate, New Delhi- 1 10002
Scholarship Division: 011-23379309, 23379310 (Extn 3300,1135)
www.icer.gov.in | www.a2ascholarships.icer.gov.in | pdisd2.icer@gov.in
@/ICCROfficial  @ICCRDelhi O@ICCR_ha © /\ccrofficial
