
--- Page 1 ---
   

wssra srearPrar ata SrTaen

National Institute of Technology Agartala ye

yyawa 1 Tee
ea

 

Agartala, Tripura, India, Pin— 7199046 cares
NOTICE INVITING SPOT QUOTATION
No.F.NITA-23(3116)/Estate elect /2024.A C14 VG Date:] %./02/2024

Sealed item rate Spot Quotations/ Call of Quotations are invited for and on behalf of NIT Agartala, from Central &
State Public Sector Undertaking / Enterprise and eligible Contractors / Firms / Agencies of appropriate class registered
with state PWDs / CPWD/ MES Railway / P & T as per following table:-

   
 
    
  

  

Last date of
submission of
bid/ offers

Time for
Description Completion of
} work

Date of opening (if
possible)

 

93; 1272024 93/12/2024 at

3:30 pm
Upto 2:30 pm (if possible)

Shifting of LT Overhead line passing infront of
Seminar Hall at NIT Agartala campus.

    
 

10 (Ten) days

 

Documents are available in institute website should be downloaded and submitted to the Registrar, NIT
Agartala in sealed envelope and should be properly Sealed & Superscripted. For any enquiry, please contact by e-mail

to estateelectrical.nita@gmail.com before the last date of submission of tender. |
Details are available in the websites: http//www.nita.ac.in |

|

Registrar, NIT Agatia pre :

P. S. to the Director, for bringing it to the notice of the Director. | :

The Dean (P&D), for kind information. | | :
Mr. Kamal Kanti Paul, System Administrator, NIT Agartala with request for launching of this Notice

in the Institute website k

 

The DR (FA), for information.

a= “1-12-2¢, 3
Registrar, NIT Agartala > |

_ National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, P.O- NIT Agartala, West Tripura, Pin: - 799046, Tel. No. 038 1-2846630/ 6629,
Fax. No. 0381-2346360, Url :- www.nitaac.in


--- Page 2 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,
AGARTALA

TENDER DOCUMENT @)

 

 

Location:- National Institute of Technology, Agartala, Tripura.

 

Name_of work:- Shifting of LT Overhead line passing infront of

seminar Hall at NIT Agartala campus.

Estimated Cost:- Rs.3,41,928/-

Name of Contractor:-

NOTICE INVITING CALL OF QUOTATION:

—04/NITA/Estate Elect. /2024
Number of Pages:- 14 (Fourteen) pages including cover page.
Registrar
_ NIT Agartala

Page 1 of 14

ou a Ss. \Y,


--- Page 3 ---
CHECKLIST

The following documents should be attached and the page number should be

indicated against each.

a)

b)

C)
_ d)

€)

g)
h)

I)

Submission of tender letter along with original set of tender

documents duly signed on every page and sealed.------------------------ Yes/No
Rates should be inclusive of GST and other charges in BOQ written in figure as
well as word and the total amount calculated and written at the end.-----Yes/No
Cost of tender document submitted-------------------------------------------Yes / No
In case of partnership/Corporate firms, copy of partnership deed/

Memorandum of understanding duly attested by Notary Public. ------- Page No.
Power of Attorney in the name of person who signed the tender

document (only in case of partnership/Corporate firms) ------------------ Page No.

PAN Card (PAN Card should be in the name of the firm / individual quoting for

the work). wannnnnen cece nnnnene nnn nnnennnnnnnnnas mannan nner nnenn ane nennnnn nee Page No.
GST registration Certificate. wennneecenneneesoens monn ne nnn nnn an annnencnn=- Page No.
Uptodate Tax Clearance Certificate. ---------------s9m---mnor" —————— Page No.
Any other relevant document Bidder (s) wish to furnish. --------------- Page No.

Note: Papers/documents are to be submitted by the bidders putting self attestation.

Signature of the Bidder

Page 2 of 14

  


--- Page 4 ---
Schedule of requirements :-
Description of Goods/Service

As detailed in the Annexure. aa

Specifications and allied Technical Details :-

     

As detailed in the Annexure.

 

Format of Quotation (tick appropriate box)

| *| It is a one-part bid; please give all technical specifications and piece

bid in one envelope.

The bid envelope should be super-scribed with :-
Bid for:-
“Shifting of LT Overhead line passing infront of Seminar Hall at NIT

Agartala campus.”
Enquiry No.F.NITA-23(311E)/Estate Elect/2024.

Quotations should be valid for a period of 90 days from the closing date of the
bid.
Some important dates:

i.  Pre-bid Conference: Not applicable
ii. Last date for receipt of

tender: Date: 23/12/2024 Time: 2.30 P.M
iii. Opening of techno- Not applicable

commercial bid:

iv. Opening of Financial Date: 23 13912024 Time: 3.00 P.M.
bid: (if possible)

Page 3 of 14

0

 


--- Page 5 ---
7. Performance Security (See Item 2.10 of Instructions): An amount of 5(five)% of
gross bid value shall be deposited in cash or submitted In the shape of Bank
Draft/Banker’s cheque pledged In favour of The Registrar, NIT Agartala which
will be released after the final bill.

8, Warranty:- 1(One) year agalnst any manufacturing defects where applicable.
9, Please go through the enclosed “bld document” carefully for other bidding
instructions.

10.(a) Please send your quotations by Registered/Speed Post or Courier (*) Service to:

The Registrar,
National Institute of Technology, Agartala,
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin-799046.

     
    

OR
(b) Please drop the quotation in the Tender Box kept In the office of the Estate
Section during the normal working hours of the Institute. Please do not hand

over the quotation to any person by hand.

11. All formalities for Road Permit/ Tax Clearance should be completed by Bidder/
Supplier. The Institute will not take any responsibility for the same.

12. For technical details, you may contact: E-mail: estateelectrical.nita@gmail.com

(*) Tenders /Quotations received after the date & time stipulated in the
notice are liable for rejection.

Page 4 of 14


--- Page 6 ---
Form PPIM-1B (Contd.
(Para 1,17(li)]

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA - 799 046, TRIPURA

BID DOCUMENT

Instructions to the bidders

Ld

1.2

1.3

1.4

Leo

1.6

1.7

Sealed bids are invited on behalf of the Director, National
Institute of Technology (NIT), Agartala - 799 046, Tripura, from
the intending bidders for supply of the goods/stores/ equipments
for the Institute as detailed in the enquiry letter.

The bidders should quote their offer/rates in clear terms without
ambiguity. |

The rates should be quoted both in figures and words and legibly
written without any over-writings. In case of any correction, the
same must be attested by the bidder with full signature.
However, no over-writing is permissible. Manufacturer’s price-
list, where applicable, should be submitted along with the bid.

In case of any discrepancy between the rates in figures and that
in words, the rate in words will be accepted as correct.

The last date for receipt of the bid is marked in the enquiry. In
case the above date is declared a holiday for NIT, Agartala, and
the bids will be received up to the appointed time on the next
working day.

The bids may be dropped in the tender box kept at the
Department office or alternatively, be sent by registered or
speed post or by courier service, so as to reach the concerned
department before the last date of receipt. The name of the
Department is mentioned in the Enquiry. )

The bidder may modify his bids before the last date appointed
for receipt of the bids by dropping/sending an amendment to the
bid. No bid shall be modified after the deadline for receipt of the
bids. °>

Page 5 of 14

0

 


--- Page 7 ---
®

1.8 If a prospective bidder requires any clarification in regard to the
bidding documents, he may make a request Co the concerned
officer or faculty member at least 15 days before the deadline
for receipt of bids.

1.9 Bids received after the deadline of receipt indicated in para 1.5
above, shall not be taken In to consideration.

1.10 Each bidder shall submit only one bid. A bidder, who submits
more than one bid, shall be disqualified and considered non-
responsive. |

1.11 (In respect of high value plant, machinery etc. of a complex and
technical nature). The bids may be submitted in two parts, viz.,
technical bid and financial bid. The above two bids may be
sealed by the bidder In separate cover duly super-scribed and
both these sealed covers are to be put in a bigger cover which
should also be sealed and duly super-scribed. The bidding
format is specified In the quotation enqulry.

1.12 The cover containing the bid must be sealed and super-scribed
“Electrical works in ABV Sports Complex for the upcoming 17th
Convocation at NIT Agartala”.

1.13 The bids will be opened in the Departmental office at the date
and time given on the top of the document. The bidders may
send their authorized representatives to attend the bid opening,
if they so desire. In the event of the above bid opening date
being declared holiday for the NIT, Agartala, the bids will be
opened at the appointed time and place on the next working
day.

1.14 The bidder has to sign in full at all pages of the bidding
document.

Page 6 of 14

 


--- Page 8 ---
2.

Conditions of the bid

2.1

2.2

2.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

2./

The rates quoted should preferably be net, inclusive of all taxes
and duties, packing, forwarding, freight, Insurance and all other
incidental charges. In case any of these charges become
reimbursable it is necessary that those are quoted extra in
addition to the quoted rates, the amount thereof or Ad valorem
rate must be specified. Packing, forwarding, freight, entry tax
etc., when quotes separately are reimbursable at actual. If
external agencies are employed, their receipts must be enclosed
with the invoice.

Duties and Taxes, where quoted separately, the advolerum rates
thereof should be clearly indicated with reference to the relevant
Acts and Rules.

The Institute is not authorized to issue C or D forms. Taxes may
be charged at applicable rates.

The goods/ works are required to be delivered/ excluded at the
location specified by the indenting Department of NIT, Agartala,
and must be dispatched within 10 days from the date of

- placement of the supply order under the risk and arrangement

of the bidder. In case the delivery time is higher, the same
must be mentioned clearly in the quotation.

The bid should remain valid for a period of 90 days from the
closing date of the bid. In case your offer has a different validity
period that should be clearly mentioned in the quotation.

Conditional discount: if any, offered by the bidder shall not be
considered at the time of evaluation.

The goods efreree should strictly conform to the specification

and technical details mentioned in the Annexure,

The Institute may like to conduct pre-dispatch inspection of

goods, where applicable.

Page 7 of 14


--- Page 9 ---
+8 The bid is to be accompanied with “Bid Security” ‘al for en
amount stated in the enquiry, which may be enclosed, I"
form of Account Payee Demand Draft, Fixed Deposit Ne ble
Banker’s Cheque or unconditional Bank Guarantee en-casnabie
on demand from the Registrar, NIT, Agartala from any
Scheduled Bank with validity period of forty-five days beyond
the final bid validity period. The bid security shall be in favour of
the Registrar, NIT, Agartala. The bid security shall be forfeited, if
the bidder withdraws during the bid validity period. Foreign
vendors are exempted from submitting EMD.

2.9 Period of guarantee/warranty, where applicable, should be
specified in the bid.

210 The successful bidder has to furnish “Performance Security” for
an amount specified in the enquiry, in the form of Account Payee
Demand Draft, Fixed Deposit Receipts and/or unconditional Bank
guarantee en-cashable on demand from the Registrar, NIT,
Agartala, from a Scheduled Bank with validity period of sixty
days beyond the date of completion of all contractual obligations
of supplier including guarantee/ warranty obligations. The
Performance Security is to be furnished in favour of the
Registrar, National Institute of Technology, Agartala, within ten
days of intimation, falling which his bid security will be forfeited.

Alternatively, fixed percentage of the cost of the stores/ value of
work as stated in the enquiry may be retained by the Institute in
its Maintenance Fund towards performance security, which will
be released six months after the completion of warranty period.

> 11 If the successful bidder, on receipt of the supply/work order,
Fails to execute the order within the stipulated period, in full or
part, except under situation beyond control of the contractor it
wil! be open to the Director, NIT, Agartala to recover liquidated
damage from the firm at the rate of 2 percent of the value of
undelivered goods per month or part thereof, subject to a
maximum of 10 percent of the value of undelivered goods/work.
Alternatively, it will also be open to the Director, to arrange
procurement of the required goods from any other source at the
risk and expenses of the bidder.

2.12 The successful bidder may be required to execute a contract,
where applicable.

“Vy
vr vi 4
aye

Page 8 of 14


--- Page 10 ---
2.13

2.14

2.15

2.16

2.17

The bidder has to furnish up to date Professional Tax Clearance
Certificate along with the bid.

Payment (100 percent) will be made by Account Payee
Cheque/Bank Draft/Online transfer, after the date of receipt of
the goods in good condition and receipt of the bill
(commissioning of the equipment, if applicable).

In the event of any dispute arising out of the bid or from the
resultant contract, the decision of the Director, NIT Agartala
Shall be final. All legal issues will be within the jurisdiction of
Agartala.

The bid document/resultant contract will be interpreted under
Indian Laws.

Rejection of Offers: The institute reserves the right to ignore or

reject any offer including the lowest one without assigning any
reason. |

Registrar
NIT, Agartala,
Agartala—799046, West Tripura

\ Page 9 of 14

fu:

 


--- Page 11 ---
3. Special Terms & Conditions:

3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.9

3.6

Bid

3.8

3.9

Acceptance of Technical bid strictly depends on credentials,
manufacturing capability, quality control systems, past
performance, after-sales service, _ financial background,
commercial terms & conditions etc. of the supplier(s).

Detailed Specifications, brand, make, model & parts number,
tolerance limit, resolution, corresponding ISO standard etc. of
quoted Equipments/Items should be mentioned with supported
leaflet and list of suppliers for acceptance of technical bid.

The bids of the lowest acceptable responsive bidder will normally
be accepted. However, if the price offered by that bidder is not
acceptable, negotiation may be held only with that bidder. In
case such negotiation does not provide the desired result, the
reasonable or acceptable price may be counter offered to the
next highest responsive bidder(s).

The technical bid and the financial bid should be sealed by the
bidder in separate covers duly super-scribed and both these
sealed covers are to be put in a bigger cover which should also
be sealed and duly super-scribed. The technical bids are to be
opened by the committee at the first instance and evaluated by
the competent committee/authority. At the second stage,
financial bids of only the technically acceptable offers should be
opened for further evaluation and ranking before awarding the
contract.

Price shall be FOR destination NIT Agartala inclusive of all taxes,
duties, cost of packing, forwarding & transit insurance including
any intermediate handling and unloading & stacking etc. at site.

FOR: National Institute of Technology Agartala, West Tripura-
799 O46 at site.

Period of Completion: 10 (Ten) days from the date of issuing of
order.

Consignee: Registrar, National Institute of Technology Agartala,
P.O. Tripura Engineering College. West Tripura-799 046.

The Quantity of each Item(s)/Equipment(s) may increase or
decrease at the time of Supply Order.

Page 10 of 14

 


--- Page 12 ---
3.10 Penalty: Penalty will be charged @ 2 % of per month except for
force majeure conditions for the unexecuted part of the supply
order.

3.11 Model No. of the product should be given with catalogue (where
available).

3.12 The general term & conditions of purchase rules of NIT Agartala
will be applicable.

Registrar
National Institute Of Technology
Agartala .

Page 11 of 14

/,
AN . “gn


--- Page 13 ---
ANNEXURE
BILL OF QUANTITIES

Shifting of LT Overhead line passing in front of Seminar Hall at NIT Agartala campus

Rate Rate
| (in (
in words)
Unit | Onty. fiqures gals

     
      
   
   
     
     
       
       
           
     

  

o Description Rates Should be
inclusive of GST and
| other charges
Erection of steel tubular or rail pole
strut im cement concrete 1:3:6 (1
cement : 3 coarse sand : 6 graded
1 | stone aggregate 40 mm nominal size ) | Each
foundation including excavation and |
refilling and secured with holding
| Clamps, bolts, nuts, etc. as required.
2

 

supplying and erection of stay set
complete (galvanised) with 19/20 mm |
dia X 1.8 metres long stay rod, anchor

plate of size 45 cm X 45 cm X 7.5 mm,

thimble, stay clamps, turn buckle ( 20 | |

mm X 60 cm ), 7/ 4.00 mm dia G.I. Each 3
Stay wire and strain insulator etc in :
cement concrete 1:3:6 (1 cement : 3

coarse sand : 6 graded stone
aggregate 40 mm _ nominal size)
foundation including excavation and

refilling etc. as required.

Page 12 of 14

 


--- Page 14 ---
   

  
   
   
 
      
   
 
    
     
     
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
     
    
 
 

Dismantling of pole/ street light
Standard/ strut embedded in_ brick
ballast foundation etc. as required.

 

Dismantling of over head lines
comprising of copper/ aluminium over
head conductor, G.I. wire, cross arms,
insulators etc. as required.

 
 

Supplying of channel iron 75 mm X 40
mm X 6 mm (7.14 kg per metre) cross
arm for 2 wire over head line complete
with clamps, bolts, nuts and washer
etc including drilling of holes for
insulator pins etc (as per drawing) and
painting with primer and finished paint
as required.

 
 

Supplying of channel iron 75 mm X 40
mm X 6 mm (7.14 kg per metre) cross
arm for 4 wire over head line complete
with clamps, bolts, nuts and washer
etc including drilling of holes for
insulator pins etc (as per drawing) and
painting with primer and finished paint
as required .

  
     
     
   

Erection of angle iron/ channel iron
cross arm on wood/ RCC/ PCC/ steel
tubular/ rail pole etc. as required.

Pf]

Supplying and erection of 75 mm X 90:|
mm shackle insulator with G. I, Bolt,
nuts and straps etc. as required.

 


--- Page 15 ---
10

i1

 

  

 
  
  
   
    
 

Supply of ACSR Rabbit (50 Sqmm)
conductor.

Erection of ACSR conductor of 7/3.35
mm to 7/4.00 diameter and above
including binding etc. as required.

Supply of Steel Tubular Pole 12 Mtr.
Long

 

Grand Total amount inclusive of GST and other charges =

 
 
 

 

Rs.

 

Page 14 of 14
