
--- Page 1 ---
Sey Senha 3 Om

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Agartala, Tripura, India, Pin— 799046

     

EAS Ow
y ye are pat

 

E INVITING CAL TATIO
F.NITA-47(47-EM)2023/Sound A424 -~232. Date:- 1.2/.12/2024

Sealed item rate Call of Quotations are invited for and on behalf of NIT Agartala, from Central & State Public Sector

Undertaking / Enterprise and eligible Contractors / Firms / Agencies of appropriate class registered with state PWDs /
CPWD/ MES Railway / P & T as per following table:-

Time for Last date of
Completion of | submission of :
work bid/ offers possible)

Date of opening (if

Procurement of 24 Channel Analog Sound Mixer

48/12/2024 18/12/2024 at

with digital control for Visvesvaraya Auditorium of
NIT Agartala.

10 (Ten) days 3:30 pm

Upto 2:30 pm (if possible)

 

Documents are available in institute website should be downloaded and submitted to the Registrar, NIT
Agartala in sealed envelope and should be properly Sealed & Superscripted. For any enquiry, please contact by e-mail
to estateelectrical nita@gmail.com before the last date of submission of tender.

Details are available in the websites: http//www.nita.ac.in

Ltapy

Registrar, NIT Agartala

   
 

P. S. to the Director, for bringing it to the notice of the Director.
The Dean (P&D), for kind information.

Mr. Kamal Kanti Paul, System Administrator, NIT A
in the Institute website

The DR (FA), for information.

    
  

  

 

 
  

gartala with request for launching of this Notice

 
 

   

  

_——

Registrar, NIT Agartala

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, P.O- NIT Agartala, West Tripura, Pin: - 799046, Tel. No. 0881-298466380/ 6629,
Fax. No. 038 1-2346360, Url :- Ww w.nita.ac.in


--- Page 2 ---
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,
AGARTALA

 

Location:- National Institute of Technology, Agartala, Tripura.

 

Name _of work:- Procurement of 24 Channel Analog Sound Mixer

with digital control for Visvesvaraya Auditorium
of NIT Agartala.

Estimated Cost:- Rs.1,44,500/-

Name of Contractor:-

NOTICE INVITING CALL OF QUOTATION:

 

05/NITA/Estate Elect./2024

Number of Pages:- 12 (Twelve) pages including cover page. :

Registrar
ar g
v

“ 7 Page 1 of 12
af
\
Ya gr


--- Page 3 ---
NIT Agartala

CHECKLIST

The following documents should be attached and the page number should be

indicated against each.

a)

b)

c)
d)

e)

9)
h)
i)

Submission of tender letter along with original set of tender

documents duly signed on every page and sealed.----------------------- -- Yes/No
Rates should be inclusive of GST and other charges in BOQ written in figure as
well as word and the total amount calculated and written at the end.-----Yes/No
Cost of tender document ee nomen nes een nanan ane Yes/No
In case of partnership/Corporate firms, copy of partnership deed/

Memorandum of understanding duly attested by Notary Public. ------- Page No.
Power of Attorney in the name of person who signed the tender

document (only in case of partnership/Corporate firms) ------------------ Page No.

PAN Card (PAN Card should be in the name of the firm / individual quoting for

the Work), -------------- nee enn nnn nner rene rnnnne Page No.
GST registration Certificate. -----------------------------~ eS See Page No.
Uptodate Tax Clearance Certificate. -----------------------------+-----~ Page No.
Any other relevant document Bidder (s) wish to furnish. --------------- Page No.

Note: Papers/documents are to be submitted by the bidders putting self attestation.

Signature of the Bidder

y

Page 2 of 12


--- Page 4 ---
Schedule of requirements :-

      

    
 

SI. No. Description of Goods/Service

S| As detailed in the Annexure.

Specifications and allied Technical Details :-

[eniy

      

As detailed in the Annexure.

 

Format of Quotation (tick appropriate box)

[+] It is a one-part bid; please give all technical specifications and piece
bid in one envelope.

The bid envelope should be super-scribed with :-

Bid for:-

“Procurement of 24 Channel Analog Sound Mixer with digital control for
Visvesvaraya Auditorium of NIT Agartala”

Enquiry No. F.NITA-47(47-EM)2023/Sound.

Quotations should be valid for a period of 90 days from the closing date of the
bid.
Some important dates:

i. | Pre-bid Conference: Not applicable

. fi. Last date for receipt of .
tender: Date: 18/12/2024 ~~ Time: 2.30 P.M
iii. Opening of techno- Not applicable
' commercial bid:

iv. Opening of Financial Date: 48 /1 9/2024 Time: 3.00 P.M.
bid: (if possible)

yoy &

Page 3 of 12


--- Page 5 ---
7. Performance Security (See Item 2.10 of instructions): An amount of 5(five)% of
gross bid value shall be deposited in cash or submitted In the shape of Bank
Draft/Banker’s cheque pledged in favour of The Registrar, NIT Agartala which
will be released after the final bill.

8. Warranty:- 1(One) year against any manufacturing defects where applicable.

9. Please go through the enclosed “bid document” carefully for other bidding
instructions.

10.(a) Please send your quotations by Registered/Speed Post or Courier (*) Service to:

The Registrar,
National Institute of Technology, Agartala,

Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin-799046.

 

OR
(b) Please drop the quotation in the Tender Box kept in the office of the Estate
Section during the normal working hours of the Institute. Please do not hand
over the quotation to any person by hand.

11. All formalities for Road Permit/ Tax Clearance should be completed by Bidder/
Supplier. The Institute will not take any responsibility for the same.

12. For technical details, you may contact: E-mail: estateelectrical.nita@gmail.com

(*) Tenders /Quotations received after the date & time stipulated in the
notice are liable for rejection.

K Page 4 of 12


--- Page 6 ---
rm =
[Para 1.17(Il)]}

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA - 799 046, TRIPURA

BID DOCUMENT

Instructions to the bidders

died

1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5

1.6

1.7

Sealed bids are invited on behalf of the Director, National
Institute of Technology (NIT), Agartala - 799 046, Tripura, from
the intending bidders for supply of the goods/stores/ equipments
for the Institute as detailed in the enquiry Jetter.

The bidders should quote their offer/rates in clear terms without
ambiguity.

The rates should be quoted both in figures and words and legibly
written without any over-writings. In case of any correction, the
same must be attested by the bidder with full signature.
However, no over-writing is permissible. Manufacturer’s price-
list, where applicable, should be submitted along with the bid.

In case of any discrepancy between the rates in figures and that
in words, the rate in words will be accepted as correct.

The last date for receipt of the bid is marked in the enquiry. In
case the above date is declared a holiday for NIT, Agartala, and
the bids will be received up to the appointed time on the next
working day.

The bids may be dropped in the tender box kept at the
Department office or alternatively, be sent by registered or
speed post or by courier service, so as to reach the concerned
department before the last date of receipt. The name of the
Department is mentioned in the Enquiry.

The bidder may modify his bids before the last date appointed
for receipt of the bids by dropping/sending an amendment to the
bid. No bid shall be modified after the deadline for receipt of the

bids.
Cy Page 5 of 12


--- Page 7 ---
1.8 If a prospective bidder requires any clarification in regard to the
bidding documents, he may make a request to the concerned
officer or faculty member at least 15 days before the deadline

for receipt of bids.

1.9 Bids received after the deadline of receipt indicated in para 1.5
above, shall not be taken in to consideration.

1.10 Each bidder shall submit only one bid. A bidder, who submits
more than one bid, shall be disqualified and considered non-

responsive,

1.11 (In respect of high value plant, machinery etc. of a complex and
technical nature). The bids may be submitted in two parts, viz.,
technical bid and financial bid. The above two bids may be
sealed by the bidder in separate cover duly super-scribed and
both these sealed covers are to be put in a bigger cover which
should also be sealed and duly super-scribed. The bidding
format is specified in the quotation enquiry.

° The cover containing the bid must be sealed and super-scribed
“Procurement of 24 Channel Analog Sound Mixer with digital
control for Visvesvaraya Auditorium of NIT Agartala”.

1.12 The bids will be opened in the Departmental office at the date
and time given on the top of the document. The bidders may
send their authorized representatives to attend the bid opening,
if they so desire. In the event of the above bid opening date
being declared holiday for the NIT, Agartala, the bids will be
opened at the appointed time and place on the next working
day.

1.13 The bidder has to sign in full at all pages of the bidding
document.

&

Page 6 of 12


--- Page 8 ---
2.

Conditions of the bid

2.1

2.2

a8

2.4
2.5
5.6

27

The rates quoted should preferably be net, inclusive of all taxes
and duties, packing, forwarding, freight, Insurance and all other
incidental charges. In case any of these charges become
reimbursable it is necessary that those are quoted extra in
addition to the quoted rates, the amount thereof or Ad valorem
rate must be specified. Packing, forwarding, freight, entry tax
etc., when quotes separately are reimbursable at actual. If
external agencies are employed, their receipts must be enclosed
with the invoice.

Duties and Taxes, where quoted separately, the advolerum rates
thereof should be clearly indicated with reference to the relevant
Acts and Rules.

The Institute is not authorized to issue C or D forms. Taxes may
be charged at applicable rates.

The goods/ works are required to be delivered/ excluded at the
location specified by the indenting Department of NIT, Agartala,
and must be dispatched within 10 days from the date of
placement of the supply order under the risk and arrangement
of the bidder. In case the delivery time is higher, the same
must be mentioned clearly in the quotation.

The bid should remain valid for a period of 90 days from the
closing date of the bid. In case your offer has a different validity
period that should be clearly mentioned in the quotation.

Conditional discount, if any, offered by the bidder shall not be
considered at the time of evaluation.

The goods offered should strictly conform to the specification
and technical details mentioned in the Annexure.

The Institute may like to conduct pre-dispatch inspection of
goods, where applicable.

OVW ge


--- Page 9 ---
2.8

Za

2.10

2

v

The bid Is to be accompanied with “Bid Security” (EMD) for an
amount stated in the enquiry, which may be enclosed, in the
form of Account Payee Demand Draft, Fixed Deposit Receipts,
Banker’s Cheque or unconditional Bank Guarantee en-cashable
on demand from the Registrar, NIT, Agartala from any
Scheduled Bank with validity period of forty-five days beyond
the final bid validity period. The bid security shall be in favour of
the Registrar, NIT, Agartala. The bid security shall be forfeited, if
the bidder withdraws during the bid validity period. Foreign
vendors are exempted from submitting EMD.

Period of guarantee/warranty, where applicable, should be
specified in the bid.

The successful bidder has to furnish “Performance Security” for
an amount specified in the enquiry, in the form of Account Payee
Demand Draft, Fixed Deposit Receipts and/or unconditional Bank
guarantee en-cashable on demand from the Registrar, NIT,
Agartala, from a Scheduled Bank with validity period of sixty
days beyond the date of completion of all contractual obligations
of supplier including guarantee/ warranty obligations. The
Performance Security is to be furnished in favour of the
Registrar, National Institute of Technology, Agartala, within ten
days of intimation, failing which his bid security will be forfeited.

Alternatively, fixed percentage of the cost of the stores/ value of
work as stated in the enquiry may be retained by the Institute in

~ its Maintenance Fund towards performance security, which will

214

2.12

be released six months after the completion of warranty period.

If the successful bidder, on receipt of the supply/work order,
fails to execute the order within the stipulated period, in full or
part, except under situation beyond control of the contractor it
will be open to the Director, NIT, Agartala to recover liquidated
damage from the firm at the rate of 2 percent of the value of
undelivered goods per month or part thereof, subject to a
maximum of 10 percent of the value of undelivered goods/work.
Alternatively, it will also be open to the Director, to arrange
procurement of the required goods from any other source at the
risk and expenses of the bidder.

The successful bidder may be required to execute a contract,
where applicable. — .

gy Page 8 of 12


--- Page 10 ---
b)

2.13

2.14

2.15

2.16

ele

The bidder has to furnish up to date Professional Tax Clearance
Certificate along with the bid.

Payment (100 percent) will be made by Account Payee
Cheque/Bank Draft/Online transfer, after the date of receipt of
the goods in good condition and receipt of the bill
(commissioning of the equipment, if applicable).

In the event of any dispute arising out of the bid or from the
resultant contract, the decision of the Director, NIT Agartala
shall be final. All legal issues will be within the jurisdiction of
Agartala.

The bid document/resultant contract will be interpreted under
Indian Laws.

Rejection of Offers: The institute reserves the right to ignore or
reject any offer including the lowest one without assigning any
reason.

Registrar
NIT, Agartala,
Agartala—799046, West Tripura

Page 9 of 12


--- Page 11 ---
ev

3. Special Terms & Conditions:

S.A

3.2

Jo

3.4

a0

* 36
3.7
3.8

3.9

Acceptance of Technical bid strictly depends on credentials,
manufacturing capability, quality control systems, past
performance, after-sales service, _ financial background,
commercial terms & conditions etc. of the supplier(s).

Detailed Specifications, brand, make, model & parts number,
tolerance limit, resolution, corresponding ISO standard etc. of
quoted Equipments/Items should be mentioned with supported
leaflet and list of suppliers for acceptance of technical bid.

The bids of the lowest acceptable responsive bidder will normally
be accepted. However, if the price offered by that bidder is not
acceptable, negotiation may be held only with that bidder. In
case such negotiation does not provide the desired result, the
reasonable or acceptable price may be counter offered to the
next highest responsive bidder(s).

The bid should be sealed by the bidder in covers duly super-
scribed sealed covers are to be put in a bigger cover which
should also be sealed and duly super-scribed. The technical bids
are to be opened by the committee at the first instance and
evaluated by the competent committee/authority. At the second
stage, financial bids of only the technically acceptable offers
should be opened for further evaluation and ranking before
awarding the contract.

Price shall be FOR destination NIT Agartala inclusive of all taxes,
duties, cost of packing, forwarding & transit insurance including
any intermediate handling and unloading & stacking etc. at site.

FOR: National Institute of Technology Agartala, West Tripura-

‘799 046 at site. ,

Period of Completion: 10 (Ten) days from the date of issuing of
order. :

Consignee: Registrar, National Institute of Technology Agartala,
P.O. Tripura Engineering College. West Tripura-799 046.

The Quantity of each Item(s)/Equipment(s) may increase or
decrease at the time of Supply Order.

Page 10 of 12


--- Page 12 ---
)

3.10 Penalty: Penalty will be charged @ 2 % of per month except for
force majeure conditions for the unexecuted part of the supply
order.

3.11 Model No. of the product should be given with catalogue (where
available).

3.12 The general term & conditions of purchase rules of NIT Agartala
will be applicable.

Registrar
National Institute Of Technology
Agartala :

Page 1l of 12 |


--- Page 13 ---
ANNEXURE

BILL OF NTITI

Procurement of 24 Channel Analog Sound Mixer with digital control for Visvesvaraya
Auditorium of NIT Agartala

Rate Rate
(in .
Unit | Qn figures (in words) Amount
: ty. [— “Rates Should be (Rs.)
inclusive of GST and
other charges :

Supply of 24-Channel Premium Mixing
Console

| Supply, installation and testing of 24-track | Each 1
analog mixer with digital control designed
for use in live sound environment. Its
features and specification include:

Grand Total amount inclusive of GST and other charges = Rs.

      
 

   
    
    
  
 
 

Description

 

a

Page 12 of 12
