
--- Page 1 ---
Government of Tripura
Directorate of Higher Education
Agartala, Tripura
No.F.14(1-9)DHE/Stip/18(Vol-I) Dated,...7.!../..12./..2022

NOTIFICATION

Notification is hereby issued for information to all concerned and Students of Tripura
pursuing Diploma/Degree/Post Graduate in any Government/Private College/ University during the
academic year 2022-23 for availing State run stipend schemes through BMS. portal

(https://bms.tripura.gov.in) within the following timelines.

 
  
  
     
  

Opening timeline for Online
Application & Verification
Online Institute level
Application for verification

Student’s

education of Girls at degree stage December,2022 January,2023

Income Group student for Studies in India December,2022 January,2023

3. | Tripura Govt. Merit Cum Means Scholarship Upto 30th
S| Scheme 1977 December,2022 January,2023

4. | Tripura Post Graduate Research Fellowship Rules Upto 30th

courses outside the state of Tripura Rules December,2022 January,2023
January,2023

6. | Lakshay-Chief Minister's Special Scholarship Upto 30th
Scheme for UPSC (CSE) aspirants. December,2022
> Students applying for the scheme need to “Register” on the portal as fresh applicant,

using the link “Citizen login” at BMS Portal URL https://bms.tripura.gov.in, by providing accurate
and correct information as per their documents.

   
  

   
  
  

  

Name of Scheme

         
     
 

 

 
  
 
 

 
    
      
   

  

      

> Before initiating registration process, students are advised to go through the user
manual of the BMS Portal.

% The student shall login in the portal using their Mobile No./email ID. After
successful login student can apply in any one State Scheme on-boarded on BMS portal by
providing required information.

> The students pursuing Degree/Master Degree/ Diploma in the Colleges/Institutions
under the control of Higher Education, Government of Tripura should select their concerned
Institution in the drop down box of the BMS portal and students studying beyond the Higher
Education control institution shall select “Directorate of Higher Education” while applying

application.

> After successful submission of online application in BMS portal, the student shall
submit the print copy of filled up online application with necessary documents to the concerned
Institution/ Directorate of Higher Education, Shiksha Bhawan, Office lane, Agartala.

nn’


--- Page 2 ---
> The College/Institute Nodal officers shall approve student’s application online in the
portal after verifying the correctness of detail application submitted and uploaded documents
required for availing the scheme. The Institute Nodal Officer must ensure that there are no pending
applications, as on last date of verification, and all application submitted by students/applicants to
the Institute are scrutinized (verified/rejected/defected along with appropriate reason, as the case
may be) Physical copy of all verified and approved applications should be kept with the institute for
record,

> The Approver of Institute level shall verified the student’s data and forwarded to
State level in online for final process payment through CTOS as a verifying officer.

This Notification should be brought to the notice of the students by all the respective Head

of the Institutions.
ao An wy
(N.C Sh z
Director of Higtier Education,

Tripura

Copy to:
1. PS to the Hon’ble Minister, Education Department, Govt. of Tripura for kind information of
Hon’ble Minister.
2. The Secretary, Education Department, Govt. of Tripura for kind information.
3. The Director ,IT, Govt.of Tripura ,Indranagar, Agartala, for kind information.

4. for kind

I

information.

5. The Nodal Officer IT, Directorate of Higher Education for uploading the notification in the
department website.

Director of Higttér Education,
Tripura
