
--- Page 1 ---
an —

a

jukaeamae bi,

Director

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Tripura, India - 799046
Phone : 0381 2346 360/630
Fax : 0381 2346 360/630, Website: www.nita.ac.in

wa ©

uno from eee cider
hi, Kolkata,
Gas iat. Imphal Mere

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA

 


--- Page 2 ---
Where the mind is without fear and the
head is held high
Where knowledge is free

Where the world has not been broken up
into fragments
Rabindranath Tagore

 

Chairman's Message
From the Director's Desk
Acknowledgement & Chairman IR & AA Message

About NITA
- Strategic Plan Process
_ Vision, Mission and Objective
) - Institutional Goals - Short and Long Term
- : Departmental Projections

F
> Planning & D velopment Affairs

_ Research & Consultancy Affairs

___ Department of Civil Engineering
__ Department of Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering
Department of EICCHOUICS a Commuiacagon Engineering

ae i Department of Production Engineering

Department of Chemical Engineering
i Department of Mathematics
- Department of Physics
Be Department of Management, Humanities and Social Science
Department of Chemistry
aa Library
. _ Projection of Different Schools & Centers in NIT Agartala
sah «RB |
Appendix I}
_ Appendix III
Appendix IV
Appendix ad

Photo Gallery

 


--- Page 3 ---
 

 

CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE

| | | Strategic plan with a Vision and Mission having well planned goals

Is an important component to develop an educational institution to
achieve excellence for creating international level skilled manpower
equipped with innovative ideas.

Converting an existing Institution (Tripura Engineering College)
having infrastructural and other logistical impediments into an
institute of National and international excellence is a challenge but
the process of growth which has taken place during the last years at
NIT Agartala is an indication of fructification of result-oriented

' programmes and that of proper planning in the right direction.

During the past years, efforts have

been made not only to create infrastructural and academic facilities, but also to strengthen
the teaching and learning resources keeping in view the needs of students admitted to NIT
Agartala from various states in the country. The difficulties and challenges faced by the
institution are part of such development process and as a Chairman of BOG of NIT Agartala,
| firmly believe that the Institute will grow to achieve its objectives as per its strategic plan
to get the desired recognition as an Institute of National Importance and a Centre of
Excellence in coming years, with active support from the Govt. of India.

(Prof. H.K. Sharma)
Chairman, Board of Governors,NIT Agartala

 

 

From The Director’s Desk

The National Institute of Technology, Agartala has been
constituted by the Govt. of India with the mission to herald
a new chapter in the development of the country,
particularly, in the North East states, through the pursuit of
excellence in technical education and research. In
recognition of the strategic potential that such an Institute
, ¥ possesses in initiating and sustaining an era of renaissance
J in technical education, Ministry of Education has conferred

\ the status of “Institute of National Importance”.

NIT Agartala realizes the responsibilities of its pivotal role in the arena of
higher education to meet the future challenges of a sustainable development in
a knowledge-based economy. Its strategic impetus has the objectives of fostering
and enhancing the frontiers of a sustainable employment potential for the rural
and socio-economical challenged region. Among its immediate objectives, the
National Institute of Technology Agartala pledges to revitalize the indices of
education not only in the field of technical subjects but also pursue a chapter of
excellence in conventional science and management subjects in the course of
evolution into a multifaceted knowledge hub. Its strategic horizon encompasses
models of contemporary educational innovation with inbuilt mechanisms for
imparting soft skills, fostering industry collaborations and promotion of young
entrepreneurial skills. Among its various international ventures, NIT Agartala
realizes the importance in imbibing global state of the art technological advances
in its academic and research trajectory. To strengthen this aspect, it has been
engaged in endorsing various MOUs with foreign universities and institutions.
Being an active member of the DASA consortium, it can provide a unique
platform of quality technical education together with an opportunity of
discovering their innate roots of rich cultural heritage for the NRI aspirants.

The National Institute of Technology of Agartala, has broken many
impediments and barriers which stood in its way of becoming an Institute of
National Importance and today through its commitments to achieve its strategic
objectives, the institute charters out its objective further in its quest to be a
Center of Excellence in near future.

(Prof.H.K. Sharma)
Director NIT, Agartala

 

 


--- Page 4 ---
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Chairman IR & AA Message

It's my great pleasure to thank all the members of the Committee
entrusted to finalise the strategic planning for NIT Agartala. The
Strategic Planning for an institute of National Importance like NIT
Agartala is really an important document to apprise about
achievable goals for the future and | personally hope that this
document will also actively contribute in correct path finding for
the future.

| am really in debted to all the D —HoDs tional Heads without naming a
specific one as the credit goes to each sae ae members of the Team NIT Agartala
for their valuable suggestions. lam also grateful to the Chairman(|/C) BoG, NIT
Agartala and Director, Prof H. K. Sharma for his relentless support and reminder
otherwise the document could not be possible to make it’s deliverable final shape.

Prof (Dr) Prasun Chakraborty —
Chairman, Strategic Planning Commit
NIT Agartala

Dr. Kunal Chakma
Member, Strategic Plannnig Committee

Dr. Suman Deb
Member, Strategic Plannnig Committee

Dr. Nirmalya Kar
Member, Strategic Plannnig Committee

 

MOTIVATION : An Overview

The ability of an academic institution to fit
in with the rapidly changing environment
and be at the cutting edge of competition
is the key to its longevity. To be able to do
this an institution should have a vision
and strategy to realize the vision. To plan
strategically an organization has _ to
undertake a comprehensive analysis of

what it presently is, what should be, and
how it must change in the context of the
rapidly changing environment in which it
operates. The basic assumptions that
govern these questions constitute the
Strategic Planning of an organization. Thus
the purpose of Strategic Planning is one of

Looking forward several years to
determine where the organization
should go

Developing a realistic vision and goals to
achieve the vision

Measuring progress towards goal
achievement, and

Providing tools to guide technical and
operating decision.

Keeping this view in background this
present Strategic Plan document of NIT
Agartala 2020-30 is being prepared. To
present a strategic Plan documents is
no doubt a herculean task engaging all
the stake holders in right perspective.
NIT ces i been able to complete

This document is a result of a
series of meetings, workshops and
interactions among all stakeholders
wherein departmental goals and
priorities have been fixed in line with
the overall institutes vision and mission.
Hopefully, this document will be an
unique one in its content and
presentation as for strategic planning
process the current 4P model has been
used through which a clear picture of
past, present and future of NIT Agartala
is visualized.

This document will certainly
provide a road map for its journey
towards excellence.

 

 

 


--- Page 5 ---
 

About NITA

Institute is committed to develop
highly competent young Engineers,
Scientists, and Management
Professionals to cater to the ever
increasing techno-managerial needs
of national and international
standards fulfilling professional ethics
and societal commitment.

¢ To produce’ techno-managerial
human resource in line with global
need offering state-of-the-art facility,
research and training in engineering
and allied disciplines.
* To enhance the effectiveness of
technical education with innovative
system and devising a mechanism to
facilitate application of research
findings to solve real problems of
industries/academics.

* To nurture and sustain an academic
ambience conducive to the
development of intellectually capable
and committed professionals so that

 

.
os
*~,

Section ‘

In order to response effectively to the needs of the
society, the Institute aims at

* Influencing the technical practices of the
Governmental and Non-Governmental organizations
through its Under Graduate and Post Graduate
teaching programme for the young and prospective
technocrats, Training of corporate executives,
Consultancy and Research, The research
programmes are oriented towards developing
technical systems that are most suitable in the
Indian context particularly for North-Eastern Zone.

* Transpiring the technical knowledge from the
Institute level to the entrepreneurs, so that an
effective growth is obtained for the economic
development of the Region and the Nation as a

* Enhance the effectiveness of technical education
and innovative system and devising a mechanism
to facilitate application of research findings to
solve the problems in the industry.

 


--- Page 6 ---
 

National Institute of
Technology, Agartala aims at to
be the leader in preparing
professionals who can ingrain
exemplary education in
technical and allied fields and
related services to make the
lives of individuals better in a
changing World and to be the
Centre of innovation and
creativity, research and
entrepreneurship, life-long
learning, professionalism and
collaboration with other
communities.

Mission

To extend and deepen the
knowledge about the
development and utilization of
manpower talent by imparting
the values:

To develop leaders through
lifelong learning, academic
inquiry, active thinking and to
hold the highest standards and
principles of ethical conduct and
accountability and to achieve
excellence through collaborative
approach, innovation and
development of
entrepreneurship.

To empower the students as an
advocate for themselves, their
communities and to create &
support an inclusive community,
where everyone is treated with
respect and dignity.

To integrate knowledge and
experiences both inside and
outside of the classroom by
faculty-student interaction,
experiential learning and
embracing new technology -
making every opportunity into
a possible learning outcome.

Objective

= To impart quality Education
= To develop professional

attitude.

To make good human being
possessing professional ethics.
To make responsible citizens
with social commitme

To develop entrepreneurial
spirit among young
professionals.

To foster Research and
development attitude.

To ensure all round
development

_ INSTITUTIONAL GOALS = SHORT AND LONG TERM

Vt a 7
=e
7 -
i
The Institute goal setting and developmental projections are carried out through active participation of
all concerns by different brain storming sessions.

Short term goals (to be achieved within 5 years) and long term goals (to be achieved within 10 years).

1.

To strengthen the
UG& PG
laboratories to
meet the global

standards. c
a

To complute To strengthen campus

construction of Wi-Fi network for easy

Academic block, access of information

girls hostel. Bio & to convert the

Enge Block etc. campus into digital
campus

ae oF

To make functional :
CRF & make it Implementation
available for all of NEP
stake holders. 2020

Short term goals:

6. ie

To have strong
entrepreneurship
& Technology
incubation centre

To create digital
library & strengthen
existing library wrt
e-journals & books

oe a

To spread out
automation in campus
to address the students

To strengthen further the
Academic & Research
ambiance in the

needs. fer Taal el

 


--- Page 7 ---
 

 

 

THE DEPARTMENTAL GOALS AND OBJECTIVES WERE EVOLVED THROUGH DISCUSSION
AND DELIBERATION WITHIN EACH DEPARMENT.

Long Term Goals: THESE GOALS AND OBJECTIVES ARE DERIVED FROM THE INSTITUTIONAL GOALS. THE
DEPARTMENTAL GOALS ARE INDICATED BELOW :

  

  

Librar
s Electronics &

  

Communication

Engineering

   

DEPARTMENTAL eure:
PROJECTIONS Engineering

 

 

Department
of

Mathematics

   

 

 

  

  

  

 
 

 

 

 


--- Page 8 ---
 

 

Matters Related to Alumni Affairs and Institute Relation

To essence the change of Global Education and Training through collaborative networks with
further aim to spread the message of brotherhood.

midentification and negotiations with leading National/Global Institute imparting professional
education, Universities. Research Laboratories and Industries for feasible collaboration in
the industrial and academic research with better emphasis to solve burning problems.

m Proactive role in seeking potential partnership and curriculum development opportunities
that complement the institute's Strategy in India and abroad.

mProvide a vision and leadership in reforming NIT Agartala as per the need of national/
international research, teaching learning and training along with faculty members and
higher functionaries of NIT Agartala.

Salo Aen e=ig 00 i 8) (ola

= Signing formal and specific MOUs with Universities. R&D Laboratories, Industries and
Professional Consultancy firms in India and abroad.

m Assist in seeking international research partnerships and funding to support research

i initiatives of the institute.

| m™ Work with the Alumni Association to develop meaningful programs and initiatives that
further engage alumni with each other and with current students and faculty.

Long term plan

m Provide leadership to facilitate interdepartmental and cross-country research among the
faculty members and students beside their training activities.

= Promote research capacities, build strategic partnerships for bringing the standard of

manpower to the international level through post doctoral research and other collaborative

‘ rams.

 

   
   
  
  
  

international mission o f the institute for getting grants, International

| scholarships

umni engagement with the institute to foster and facilitate relationships
aportunities for alumni, students and the Institute.

~ >

  
   
  

ca
‘ ‘ i

be -
- € Dad
OA AN eS -

MaexeT ANALYSIS
Se

ee cE
eae

Planning & Development Affairs

 

All Sections of Dean (Planning & Development) are putting up committed efforts on continuous improvement
in its areas of work by creating infrastructure and maintaining a secure lush green campus and friendly
environment with the surrounding villagers in a cost effective manner.

m To create new infrastructure as per the requirements in proportionate to students intake.
m To provide maintenance of buildings, roads and other amenities of the campus.

m= To put continuous effort for cleanliness, housekeeping and beautification of the campus.
= To maintain 24 X 7 round the clock security in the campus.

Short term plan

=™ Planning, monitoring and maintenance of all infrastructures as per schedule.
= lo develop a methodology & robust the system of different outsource company in campus.

Long term plan

= Construction of adequate no of Faculty quarters, staff quarters and married Research
scholar Hostel.

= Conversion of existing conventional lights and appliances to energy efficient lights and
appliances.

= Up gradation of Roads and other infrastructure according to the future demands.

= Construction of 2000 capacity convention centre.

= Renovation of different academic departments, laboratories and Research facilities.

 

 


--- Page 9 ---
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 

  

National Institute of Tech
research, and entrepreneurship
of ever changing world.

its students through education, innovation,creativity,
rm the nation and the society to be at the forefront

  
       
   

= To impart world class education in all f
= To integrate knowledge and experiences
experiential learning and embr
= To train future leaders who will se
standards of personal ethos and
» To empower the nation with high

oe Taculs ey interaction,

=» To start need based UG and PG programmes.

= To attract minimum International students in Underc uate, Dual Degree, Postgraduate and Ph. D courses.
= Digital delivery or No Touch delivery of academic | credentials \rough DigiLocker.

= To increase the number of scholarships for the students under several Govt. and private schemes.

» To increase the number of fellowships so as to improve research ambiance of the Institute.

= To have NBA accreditation to all the relevant courses.

= To improve the position in rankings such as NIRF.

 

    

= To attract international faculty for short/long term visits.

= To be one among the institutes in International Rankings.

= To introduce remote monitoring of Examination and Classroom teaching.

= Digital storage of all degree certificates and grade cards to be implemented.
= Online portal to be designed to inculcate online education.

   
 

 

   
   
 

 

 

 

   

 

 
   
 
 

> . the leader in preparing professionals who can ingrate
he lives of individual better in a changing World and to be
and enti ip, life-long learning, professionalism and

National Institute of Technology |
exemplary education and related
the Centre of ir ation and.
collaboration with communities. :

   

 

 

"To extend and deepen the know
the values:

=To develop leaders through intentional leart

 

-and utilization of manpower talent by imparting

    

ic inquiry, active thinking and to uphold the
poyests standards fae

   
  
 
 

el communities and to create/support an inclusive

and outside of the classroom by faculty-student interaction,
‘ing every outcome into a learning opportunity.

. ORESEarCR activities will be taken up in different thrust areas such as energy sector, environmental science,
structure, water resource, thermal engineering, bio-technology, agriculture, food processing, food safety and
storage.

= Our institute will also set up essential infrastructures to support Micro, Small & Medium scale
Enterprise (MSME) based project under the umbrella of “ ATMANIRBHAR BHARAT” mission funded by Govt of
India.

= All necessary research facilities will be developed to increase the number of high quality research publications,
patents and technology transfer, sponsored research projects and industrial consultancy projects.

= At least one Center of Excellence will be built up carry out state of art research activities in specific area of
science and technology.

 

s To increase the number of high quality research publications, patents and technology transfer, sponsored
research projects and industrial consultancy projects.

«To increase the number of high quality research publications, patents and technology transfer, sponsored
research projects and industrial consultancy projects.

»Center of Excellence will be built up carry out state of art research activities in specific area of science and
technology.

= Freshly recruited young faculty members will be provided with start-up research project grant for doing high: ( i

quality research work.

 

 


--- Page 10 ---
 

aN

e Y
AN
Th iP 2

Department of Civil Engineering

The department is committed to contribute excellence in research, scientific and technical
education to the nation.

= To impart quality education for fundamental knowledge in engineering science and technology with
social responsibilities.

=" To develop the engineering background of students towards employability, entrepreneurship and
higher learning.

" To undertake collaborative projects to create opportunities for long-term industry-academia
interactions.

= To develop continuous improvement in teaching learning process.

Short Term Plan

» To provide conducive environment for the students, faculty members and staff to develop the best
teaching learning process.

« To develop state-of-the art laboratories and research facilities to cater the advance research and
challenges in civil engineering.

= To encourage innovation and professionalism so that social requirements of rural India may be fulfilled
either by indigenous solution or through transfer of knowledge.

Long Term Plan

= To start collaborative research with industries and to cater the future requirements.

» To develop continuous improvement in teaching-learning process and to develop state of the art
laboratories to cater the present as well as future challenges in terms of local and global standard.

» To develop right attitude and high aptitude so that individual may excel in the competitive world
maintaining high values and ethics.

« To build a Center of Excellence in the selected areas in civil engineering with the help of industry.

 

 

 

Department of Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering

To become a centre of excellence and to produce high quality, self motivated, creative and ethical

engineers and technologists within the periphery of EIE, contributing effectively to universal science and
contemporary education.

= To impart high quality engineering education and ethics to its students.

= To adopt the best pedagogical methods in order to maximize knowledge transfer.

" To have adequate mechanisms to enhance understanding of implementation of theoretical concepts in
practical scenarios.

= To carry out high quality research leading to the creation and commercialization of Intellectual Property.

"To provide the best facilities, infrastructure, and environment to its students, researchers and
faculty members, creating an ambience conducive for excellence in technical education and research.

Short Term Plan

= To update and maintain state-of-the art educational environment.

= To provide 100% placement by adopting versatility and side by side to increase the placement in core companies.

= To organize Conference, workshop, seminar and short-term training programms for the faculty and students.
Initiation of one new M. Tech specializations under the department of EIE.

 

Long Term Plan

» To develop Center of Excellence in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering Department in
collaboration with industry.

= To set up R & D Laboratory in collaboration with industries and to inculcate consultancy work.

=" To make all the faculties to publish papers in good indexed journals and to project their intellectual
property.

« To make all the faculties to get research funding from various funding agencies and in particular from
the invities.

= To elevate the outreach activities with different research organizations for publishing papers and books.
To encourage students to become entrepreneurs.

 

 

 


--- Page 11 ---
 

17

Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering

To build ECE department as one of the top rank department of India by providing the best possible opportunities to
the faculty, staff members and the students in various emerging areas to cope with the latest demand of industry
and research.

= To provide state of the art teaching and research to the faculty members.

= To acquire deep knowledge in software and hardware fields to meet the growing need of the society.
= To produce competent manpower in industry, teaching and research.

Short Term Plan

= To invite more numbers of public and private sector companies for recruitment of graduate and post
graduate students.

To provide opportunities to encourage faculty, technical staff and students to culture the best available
on line platforms and technology.

= To develop innovative method for imparting quality teaching.

Long Term Plan

To attempt to attract bright students in the department.

To create amenable and proper environment so that quality faculty members can join the department.
To depute young teachers for training courses at various top level institutes in the country and abroad.
To develop high quality research environment for the faculty members of the department by createing
a Centre of Excellence .

RAN vars NE
¥ i» S) D a L

A

Department is committed to produce competent Electrical Engineers with high aptitude and right
attitude to meet the local and global requirements of all times maintaining societal commitment
and professional ethics.

To develop conducive environment for imparting quality education to improve fundamental knowledge
and social responsibilities.

To foster innovation, creativity, research potential and scientific temperament among students.

To support the students towards skill development for employability, entrepreneurship, and higher
learning.

To develop continuous improvement in teaching learning process.

Focus on interdisciplinary research and to trive for quality publications.

Recruitment of adequate regular faculty members to mitigate dearth and upgrade the
teaching-learning and research.

Endeavour for obtaining sponsored projects.

Carry out with continuing laboratory development to fulfill the need of enhanced intake of students.
Association with educational and research institutions for joint academic and research activities.
Publication of departmental Journal/magazine/newsletter.

Introduction of PG courses in the emerging field mainly for service engineers.

Recruitment of regular technical and office staff for laboratories management and official work.

Envisage collaboration with National/International reputed Institutions, research laboratories and
industries to work in the areas of mutual interest.

Promotion of consultancy to provide technical services and solutions to industries as well as various
organizations.

Foresee the admission of foreign students under DASA scheme of MHRD, Gol.

Exploring the possibility of Post-Doctoral Fellowship to augment the research and academic activities.
Setting up state of the art laboratories in collaboration with industries to solve industrial problem by
creating a Centre of Excellence.

 

 


--- Page 12 ---
   

Long Term Plan

   

 

    

 

ey the cab
ee eS

 

~ wo

 

 

Mission

Ai

te and post gradu


--- Page 13 ---
ki ills or meetin the ocean needs.

op and sustain their skills as

iment and society,

To make good human b aes hic
development. =
To participate in all

Implementing a curriculum considering the present and future demands of industries and global
market.

Designing and modeling course structure and contents to deliver latest technological advancement to
the students. At the same time emphasis to be given to make students fundamentally strong enough
to address any practical problem. -

Ensuring experimental exposures to handle real life problems with more confidence.

= Gate exam will be mandatory for all the students.

Developing academic network and taking the maximum use of existing MoUs to exchange knowledge
and use facilities on regular basis in an organized manner.
To develop foreign language learning scope.

At least one core project target for every faculty in next 10 years.
Developing one under graduate/post graduate laboratory with at least five to ten new experimental
facilities for every faculty using funds from external source.

Collaborative research initiatives with other departments of the institute or other institute (project
proposal / research publications). .
Setting up specific state of art research facilities/setups which have huge potential of research and
consultancy.

Departmental journal publication in collaboration with other department/ institutes in neighboring

states and countries. a
Setting up infrastructure to develop products which solve the industry issues and social Fequinere a /

= Promoting entrepreneurship development and also practicing it with inputs from experts. ee

A ~ *
wee

city for team work in inter disciplinary, national

> and essence the need of the

To create “Socio Development Cell" to render special service to the institute neighbouring
uneducated poor.

To Associate with educational and research institutions for joint academic and research activities.

To carry out with continuing laboratory development to fulfil the need of enhanced intake of students.
To conduct national and interactional seminar/ conferences related to the subjects of Production
Engineering.

 

 


--- Page 14 ---
Long Term Plan

=" To enrich the existing laboratories by installing sufficient and updated machineries and
equipments relevant to the course curricula.

= To establish a centre or school under Production Engineering Department with a view to
serving the practitioner engineers of near-by industries in terms of Quality and Reliability of
manufactured products together with offering a master course (PG Degree) in the relevant
field.

» More emphasis on the training in practical field has to be given to achieve more in depth
knowledge of the subject.

# Interaction with other university students in terms of online workshop, technology transfer,
and collaborative research can be promoted to excel the quality of education and research.

» To focus more on placements activities, research oriented works, patent, R&D projects like
AICTE, DST etc.

= For the department to be self sufficient and for the development of both students and
young technology enthusiasts’ courses on skill development, job oriented courses on
payment basis shall be introduced. It will enhance the skills and knowledge of
students/youngster as well asemployability can be improvised.

# To incalculate enter transship ability the students and increase the regular faculty members
in the Department.

ET

a

a

“.,

aa

eT

To be leader in chemical engineering discipline.

To provide high quality technical education to pred ees oe chemical engines who
will advance chemical engineering r 1 In
capable to provide industrial solut

To continuously upgrade the teaching - learning process maintaining strict compliance to the
requirements of the professional accreditation body such that the students can excel in their career
goals while obtaining a strong foundation in the principles of chemical engineering.

Improve the research activity qualitatively and quantitatively by improving the infrastructure, by
seeking external funds and by promoting collaboration and cooperation.

Enhance industry-institute collaboration to promote industry driven research, improve consultancy
activities, and secure better career opportunities for students.

Attract competent post graduate students and research scholars by offering state of the art research
experience.

Promote departmental activities and improve alumni networking to take the departmental presence
to a future height.

 


--- Page 15 ---
UL
2 Ce a “ a +2=4
; ee ott.) ial tala
LT] Le f t de lal p xt yraz=A
rv :
sa i lim freeten

ea -x =O ,I=(1,10) nprtco

re Le +2y-1

Vy ry eas
| eee arr eee 1 j ae
2a Vi F ia

Long Term Plan

One:
™ Integrate technology based learning, offer diverse career based specialization and eta a - By a 7 zs roe ma
multidisciplinary academic programs so as to impart a holistic education to the students. “og y =7 ob oo a | P F 4 a Ite P ves sO] Coat
Promote innovation, expose to incubation, inculcate an interest towards entrepreneurial oa 7 Ps > (FG ) é r 4 be ely xo 4 -(BA+66R -30=4
activities among the students through the teaching learning process. Ox Ps Faas 0 a eR \
To produce cutting edge interdisciplinary research across the breadth of the chemical Md
engineering discipline that will addresses future societal/technological needs and challenges
and will readily be accepted by industry and the society.
To contribute to and provide leadership in professional organizations, leading technical
institutions, and government/industry drawing upon the unique expertise and experience of
our faculty, and students.
To establish the department as a hub of excellence which will contribute and catalyze
sustainable development of the state and theNorth-east region through knowledge sharing,
establishing networks, and producing manpower capable and competent to bring societal
development.

—

= 7 =
“BreEC v4 i Sy ia
ve ey Mid ek hd er

hes
tad
Ps

ea
:) e*-yy2=e AlOe 1) 4, PUSS ac ad i ees
e@t*4 Pas ae a -

Vises

Department of Mathematics

This Department aspires to be known for its teaching and research excellence both nationally
and internationally by inculcating strong mathematical abilities to its undergraduate, post
graduate and doctoral students and establishing a framework for fostering budding intellectuals
in the outcome-based education and research.

>

To provide high-quality Mathematical skills to undergraduate, post graduate and doctoral
students,

To teach engineers how to apply mathematical skill and use that knowledge to solve complicated
engineering issues by creating mathematical models to meet the requirements.

To encourage the research scholars and faculty members of the Department to have exposure to
various research contexts in India and overseas.

Short Term Plan

a Jo submit projects (yearly) by all the regular faculty members to various funding agencies.
=™ To conduct International conferences biennial which were organized in Mathematics Department
in 2019, 2020 and 2021 respectively.
Resolution of UG and PG project with at least one publication in SCOPUS/SCI journal.
To apply for accreditation.
To have smart class room and proper sitting arrangement for students.
To set up conference room in the Department.
To invite visiting professors from various top Institutes to teach different subjects of Mathematics
and Computing under the outreach program of the department.
a To initiate MoU with different Institutes to further strengthen academics and research
a Jo initiate to increase the number of qualifying students in competitive exams like NET, GATE etc.

Long Term Plan

m To revise the syllabus to meet the further demand.

m™ To start an open access journal by Department of Mathematics which will be published by either of
Springer, Elsevier and Taylor and Francis publishers.
To set up Departmental library with sufficient books and sitting arrangement.
To establish Data Science Lab and to create Centre of Excellence.
To improve computer labs with advanced softwares.
To purchase different Lab related equipments (0510/8 original version, Proper LAN/ WIFI connectivity
in all the computer, Antivirus protection in all computers, book shelves for equipment purpose) for
smooth functioning of the labs.

 

 

 

 


--- Page 16 ---
Vision
The Physics department aims to grow up as an excellent place of harnessing academic and research

activities bringing out its visibility nationally and internationally by catering the young scientific
minds to serve in the field of science and technology.

= TO prepare the students for their future endeavour in Physics by providing interactions in the
classroom and laboratories throughout their entire curricula.
To contribute at the highest level of theoretical and experimental research in science and technology.
To promote interdisciplinary studies and research to contribute in cutting edge technology
developments.
To develop the scientific and professional potential of faculty staff and students.

Short Term Plan

=" To enhance the research productivity of the department in terms of quality publication with an
objective to achieve world class research publications of high impact and thus to increase the
visibility of the department and the institute nationally and internationally.
To set up computation laboratory with an objective to train students in computational skills in physics
and to develop computational research facility for contemporary works in science and technology.
Up gradation of infrastructural facilities and development of research facility with an objective to

upgrade the B.Tech first year laboratory, to develop experimental and theoretical facilities in
research.

Long Term Plan

To hare national/internationa! research collaboration.

To revise the course curriculum for adjusting the changes in the modern scientific era.

To increase number of research labs and equip them with latest equipment.

To achieve excellence in imparting quality education as well as research in Physics.

To arrange more research funds from external sponsoring agencies like CSIR, UGC, AICTE, DRDO
To make the department more students friendly and enhance free thinking to develop scientific
knowledge.

To introduce integrated PhD programmes and Post-Doctoral programmes.

Pil

#

IPO

 

  
 
    

es 5

 

Vision
“To emerge as a centre of excellence in creating human capital with social ethos that has potential to
become assets in corporate world contributing to economic development of the society”.

“Committed to serve the global society by nurturing and fostering the human intellectuality with

distinct skills and knowledge by cutting edge technology, innovation and research in the field of
management, humanities and social sciences”.

Short Term Plan

# To have well equipped class room for online teaching-learning. It increases flexibility of time and
location in respect of teaching.

To have Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Universities or Higher Educational Institutes and
Corporate houses to be built.

To introduce Sociology in UG curriculum.

To introduce Departmental electives in Financial Economics, Environment Economics and
Econometrics in UG curriculum.

Long Term Plan

Accreditation of MBA Program.
To introduce integrated BA-B.Ed programme in Arts and Social Sciences as per recommendations of
NEP
# Infrastructural development of the Department in terms of:
(a) Language Lab
(b) Computer Lab
(c) Human Resource
= To introduce 3 years executive MBA programs, which may help to develop managerial skills and
planning. To carry out the programs weekend classes will be arranged.
a The existing Centre for North East Policy Research will be made more active so that state-of-the -art
research activities can be taken up in the Center.
= Centre for Soft Skill Development may be opened.

Department of Management, Humanities & Social Sciences

28

 

 


--- Page 17 ---
 

Vision|

  
     
       
       
   
     

—
~~

| ar

z a

Department of Chemistry

Short Term Plan |

7

 

[oO provide

 

 

     
 

rs
eat
MM th
ree
ING

a
i
7

Pa

—_— ——

Ty

ra

 

 
  
  

va

tt |
P/E]

a
— —_—

 

 

eels

 


--- Page 18 ---
To digitize archival collection and thesis & dissertation.

To provide 24 x 7 OPAC facility of library through world wide web with facilities
allowing online reservation, circulation and status of particular book.

To provide alert services of new arrival of books, journals and to display photocopies
of the articles published by the faculty members.

Enrich library collection with latest documents

Setup of Institutional Digital Repositories.

To increase the online resources to cater to the demand of the students.
Become notable depository among NITs and IITs libraries in India.

Collection of back volume of periodicals and lectures of various video courses in
Science and Technology, Collection of works of Novel Laureates.

Collection of documents printed/non printed on latest research in different fields
of Science and Technology and Social Sciences.

Making the library more serviceable in proper planned building.

Use of CCTV to ensure proper surveillance of various potential location of the
library.

To ensure better management &amp; functions of library.

To create the best reading atmosphere with entire satisfaction of the users.
Utilization of uninterrupted power supply and internet connection for maximum
benefit.

To recruit best library professionals and to retain them.

Projection of Different Schools &

Centres at NIT Agartala

Towards boosting industry-academia partnership
for research and development as well as
facilitating high end training programmes in
Information and Communication Technologies,
the National Institute of Technology, Agartala has
signed a MoU with Centre for Development of
Advanced Computing (C-DAC), a scientific society
under the Ministry of Communications and IT,
Government of India on October 29, 2009 at
Agartala.

The MoU envisages strategic collaboration
between the two organizations for research and
development in areas such as e-Learning,
semantic web etc., and high-end non-formal
training programmes in Information and
Communication Technologies.

The various programmes which will be conducted.
includes
= Diploma in Advanced Computing
(DAC)
= Diploma in Wireless & Mobile
Computing (WiMC)
= Diploma in VLSI Design (DVLSI)
m Diploma in Advanced Computer Arts (DACA)

The certificate diploma programmes will also be
conducted for the students. These programmes
include the Certificate courses in Advanced
Diploma in Information Technology (ADIT)

These high-end career oriented IT training
programmes designed and developed by
theAdvanced Computing School of C-DAC will
assist the students in molding their skills based
on the requirements of the IT industry thereby
providing an advantage in placements and in
their career path. The syllabi of the
programmes are designed based on industry
inputs and the IT training programmes have
been developed taking the latest technologies
in consideration.

A centre for Rural & Tribal Development has been
set up in the main workshop building of NIT
Agartala. Its aim is to give skill development
training on various areas based on natural resource
available like bamboo, cane etc. Besides that,
motor driving, simulator training school has been
established under the same centre. This will be an
exposer to train tribal and rural people, in the area
of driving all kind of motor vehicles. This will help
to get employment and also it may generate self
employment in this area.This centre has objectives
to arrange different skill development program for

people surrounding the campus of NIT Agartala,
Rural and Tribal people
of Tripura in particular.
~The centre possesses
infrastructure like
fa driving simulator,
| bamboo processing

H Machines etc.

NIT, Agartala has already setup a separate fully

dedicated hospital to the hole NIT community. It has
both the indoor and outdoor facilities. Some eminent
doctors are engaged for round the clock service for
NIT people. The hospital is having 10 bad capacities
separate for woman with all life saving drugs and
facilities. Two numbers of pharmacists and seven
other staffs are already engaged to help the people.

 


--- Page 19 ---
 

‘Kendriya Vidyalaya

 

 

  
 
  

oe

   

 

 

Ma we

rwTTTT TL

ae

 

= =
a
ie
el
7
See
a
Sa

12. |

: See annenag int

tut r

       
     
  
    
   

= ae=- ix : et:
err | |||
PARAE ss oust

  
   

 

  
  


--- Page 20 ---
 

Observation =

1. The committee was impressed by the infrastructure in the campus in general. The
facilities created for teaching and research in various departments with adequate
space dedicated for the purpose including the hostels were impressive.

2. A sports complex and indoor facility have been provided.

3. Some of the activities undertaken by the students such as solar driven bicycle, bamboo stalk
stripping, civil design for low cost housing, earthquake proof building designing are relevant for
the local environment.

4. The faculty and research students exhibited a lot of enthusiasm in presenting their research
activities. Few applications have been filed by the faculty for patents. Major research grants
have been received by faculty in several areas. Impressive research work is being carried in
frontier areas such as Al, ML etc.

5. The Institute shifted entire old library to a newly built building and digitized the access codes
completely. The libraryis now quite good and appears to be well maintained.

6. There are about 301 Ph.D. students, which include full time as well as part time students.

7.The Institute has signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) with IIT Madras and IIT
Guwahati for executing joint collaborative research and direct admissions to Ph.D programmes.
Through such MoUs, top performing students of NIT Agartala are eligible to pursue Ph.D after
completion of their B. Tech curriculum in addition to this, MoUs have been signed with top NITs
and other organizations (CMT| Bangalore, ONGC NEEPCO etc) for collaborative research,
imparting training and internships.

8. In 2019, NIT Agartala has signed a MoU with Sonoma State University (SSU), California, USA.
Through this MoU students of NIT Agartala will be able to pursue MS programme at SSU with
nominal course fee structure. This will give a global exposure to the students of the institute it is
worth mentioning that 7 to 8 courses, which will be taught by NIT Agartala will have credit
transfer to SSu. This will further enhance the standard of professional education in global market

9. A unique MoU, meant for the faculty members to do their Post doctoral research while in
service is also commendable. This MoU with 11 Madras Chennai along with the MoU for direct
admission to the PhD programme.

10. Alumni association is active. A strong network has been established by the former students
with in the country and abroad providing the institute a good alumni support in some key sector
viz evaluation of project of students, mentorship program, internships etc.

11. It was clear that the Director is providing a dynamic leadership, evident from various
initiatives he has taken and the enthusiastic participation of teaching and non-teaching staff
during the visit.

The committee after considering all the inputs and observations made, makes the
following recommendations:

Faculty and Staff:
1 Efforts must continue to fill in the vacant permanent faculty and staff positions.

2 After fulfilling 1 above, the sanctioned strength must be reworked based on the increased
student strength and approval from MHRD obtained.

3 The provisions available to appoint visiting teaching faculty and adjunct faculty from reputed
institutions in India and abroad and from industries are to be broadened.

14 Faculty to write proposals with active collaboration with industry, if possible, and continue to
seek funding from different schemes of Government of India.

5. Teaching-learning program for the faculty can be taken up further to strengthen the teaching
ambience in the campus.

Academic program:

1. The curriculum has to become truly a "Choice Based Credits System". Number of electives must
be increased and "Open electives" to be introduced

2. Laboratory experiments need to be updated, obsolete experiments to be removed and replaced
with state of the art.

3 Provision to be made for one or two credit forindustry relevant courses (exampl Python
programming, Bigdata), and these courses can be handled by industry personnel.

4. Student internship should be further encouraged to increase the numbers.

5. The Institute incubation center to be broadened to add all areas apart from the present space
technology in collaboration with ISRO.

Facilities :

1 Library timings can be extended beyond 20.00 h, especially during examination time Library to
be kept during weekends Few parts of the library can be airconditioned.

2. Timing may be extended for girls to access library and other facilities up to 20.00 h.

3 In the library, book reservation system to be implemented.

4 Provision to be made for students to recommend new books.

5 Facility may be created so that a mini-library is made available to Girl Students in their hotels.
6 Students and faculty be provided access to the e journals/e resources from their workspace.

7 Internet (especially Wi Fi facility) should be improved in the campus 8 Shuttle bus service inside
the campus can be provided.

 


--- Page 21 ---
From here to there... A journey towards excellence...

Strategic planning is an ongoing process and it needs to be changed from time to time to cope
with the changing environment. Therefore, it requires a continuous evaluation and monitoring
of the projected plan for effective implementation. This Institute is passing through a transition
from state level college to an Institute of National Importance. A sudden step jump of level

created a major impact on internal as well as external environment due to changing profiles : ; ‘
and expectation of stake holders such as students, Faculty, Staff, Alumni, Socio-economic, Status of Faculty associated with teaching students as on January 31, 2021

cultural and geographical location factors. It requires total quality management (TQM)

practices to achieve the projected goals. For sustainable development, it needs sustainable -
planning. In the era of liberalization, privatization and globalization, NITA emphasizes on Sanction ed
business sense to remain globally competitive and opening up door for entry of large number Faculty Rank
of foreign students. Stren th
Finally, what prompts an Institute to improve is the understanding of its relative position in the
changing environment - whether it is the leader or a follower-how to achieve the excellence.
Hopefully, this strategic plan- 2020-30 NIT Agartala will provide a guide lines to take 1 Professor 31
appropriate actions towards its journey to excellence.
Appendix Il
Constitution of Board of Governors and Organization Chart Assistant Professor
The Board of the Institution shall consist of the following members:
yY The Chairperson to be nominated by the Visitor. a Total 9
y The Director. Ex officio
Y Two persons not below the rank of the Joint Secretary to the Government of India to be

nominated by the Central Government from amongst persons dealing with technical
education and finance.

Appendix III

Faculty strength

 

Faculty Strength

Professor, 31

Visitor
President of India

[Council of NITs|

Board of Governors
Assistant

Professor, 125
Building & Works
Director

Associate

1 1 Professor, 63

Finance
Setate Committee |

     
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
  

 

   
  

 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

a = =a | Dean |{ Dean |[ Dean es) | ee Heads of || [c-Dac ees
i ‘ i Faculty ||(Research & za ite Draft F . ;
(eee (Academic Beyaceren Re Pee Consultancy)| {warden} Departmen Libraria [canis Officer g@ i Professor 2 Associate Professor 3 Assistant Professor
t ——— it iL
J
é + Se
Deputy Estate neater: Technical &
Registrar |] Security Engineer ae Se Administrative
(Academic)|| Officer ee Staff
Junior
Engineer

 

 

Asst. Registrar sg 4
(Finance & nae
Accounts) a

37 38


--- Page 22 ---
Pap per Pulliication
The following chart reflects the total number of Paper published in various International Journals,
by the faculty members of the mentioned depatments for the acedamic year 2020-2021.

SCI and SCOPUS

scl Mi scopus

Humanities

Chemistry 5

Physics ==

Mathematics

Electonics and Intrumentaion Enge j

Electronics & Communication Engg
Computer Science & Engg
Electrical Engg

Production Engg

 

Mechanical Engg >
Civil Engg
Bio Engg |
‘Chemical Engg
0 20

Project Sanctioned during 2020-2022

The following chart reflects the total number of sacntioned projects during 2020-2022

DST, SSAP and SERB

SERB ™ SSAP (§ DST

and PG students. Project work internships and industrial training is also arranged in prestigious

companies. Career counseling and cultural/social awareness programs are organized by the
department. Some of the companies are given as follows

ermine y smn UOLO -2454=— gy BYJU'S
Cognizant

Tredence

net Connect the Dots

ALLEW |

- CAREER INSTITUTE

accenture ® SostWaRE yu upstox NOKIA

Udaa hai Aap Abhi.

future group © : a : AVIVA “Joptum

Good for the system.

NATIONAL
INSTRUMENTS (\)T7OaTa Magicbricks _

wise, SAGGEZZA

4 . AN INFOSTRETCH COMPANY
es 3 | SBI Life ae
wipro INSURANCE

ntette e Phillips Carbon Black Limited a ee

@ TATASTEEL

Bharat
Petroleum

 


--- Page 23 ---
Contd...

MS ©

ALSTOM
G 3 al ry ALST nature. WWiahindra SUZUKI Ashok Leyland

i 1
DORA EATUTFS
SEARAT ELEC TROMICS
GY» pla n et rk QUALITY. TECHNOLOGY. INNOVATION,
J Bharat Electronics Limited

bs
Dalmia

Bharat Limited

Total Number of offers received by the students through the Centre for Career
Development (Training & Placement Cell) of NIT Agartala in the year 2017-18, 2018-19,
2019-20, 2020-21

—— 2017-2018 | 2018-2019
2017-2018, B. Tech 34 365
2018-2019, M. Tech 1
2019- 2020 M.C.A

1

Total number of students placed by the instituition

2019-2020 |2020-2021
1 375 525
: 7 9 15
2020-2021. 5 4
MBA h 8 27
8 435 679

 

 

 

 

Total oF

 

 

 

2017-2018, 2018-2019, 2019-2020 and 2020-2021

B® 2017-2018 2018-2019 2019-2020 MM 2020-2021

B.Tech

 

M.Tech =
MCA

BTMT & BSMS F_
MBA F_

M. Sc
-

 

Total number of students placed by the instituition

Fig: Students placed during the year 2017-18, 2018-19, 2019-20, 2020-21.
Provide details of companies/Industries, which visited the institute for placement since
the last three years

41

Total 107 numbers of companies visited during the year 2017-18
to 2019-20 and the top 30 companies during this period are as

follows :

30

a
| 4
a
8
| 9 |
| 30_|

2017-18, 2018-
19 &
2019-20

 

Name of the Company
/ Industries

Reliance Industries Ltd.

DXC Technology

42


--- Page 24 ---
Total 101 numbers of companies visited during the year 2020-2021 Append ix VI
and the top 30 companies during this period are as follows :

Student intake in B.TECH Programme
SI.No Vear Name of the Company /
__ Industries

Boys Girls ratio admitted during last 3 years in UG - B.Tech
Boys MM Girls:

. ae eg Fa Te Bene TSM. A eer ce Panta d oe eT
Boys Girls ratio admitted during last 3 years in Dual Degree

Boys Mi Giris

ri)

56

 


--- Page 25 ---
Students Admission as per the category

ST, OBC, Gen and EWS ratio during last 3 years

@ sc ST @§ OBC MH Gen @ Ews

Fig: SC, ST, OBC, GEN and EWS ratio admitted during last 3 years in UG level

Student intake in M.TECH Programme

Boys Girls ratio admitted during last 3 years in PG level

- i. SE. a ee a

|:

2020-21

Fig: Boys Girls ratio admitted during last 3 years in PG level

 


--- Page 26 ---
100
: = SC
ST
50 8 OBG
m GEN
m EWS
25 |

2019-20 2020-21 2021-22

 

Fig: SC, ST, OBC, GEN, EWS ratio admitted during last 3 years in PG level

Appendix VII

AIT AwmarES LWactal imfnrs = sr
NIT, Agartala Hostel Information

| Howrah | BoysHostel_|
| __Gomati__—_—|_ BoysHostel_|

Gargi
|___Aryabhatta_ | Boys Hostel_|
| RNT

Boys Hostel

 

 

 

 

47

Construction of Infrastructural Buildings: COMPLETED

Name of the Works

Construction of Boys and Girls Hostels, Dining and Common Rooms.
(Aryabhatta and Gargi hostel)

Construction of Market Complex(G+1)

Internal Road Development.

SI. No
2
3

Construction of Laboratories cum Canteen Building, Workshop and

 

Academic Building. Construction of G+6 Academic Building

5 Construction of Staff Housing, Guest House, Director's, Residence
Construction of Central School
Construction of Administration Block I & Il and Seminar Hall.

Construction of School of Management Block( Presently Civil Engineering
Department).

Construction of New Housing (H4B two blocks consisting of 48 flats)

Construction of Duplex housing(10 nos)

12 Additional Floor of Central School

13. |Construction of Sports Complex at NIT Agartala

4 Area development works in and around Central libaray and CSE
Department.
Construction of 1500 Capacity Boys Hostel at NIT Agartala ( R.N. Tagore
~ hostel).

Up-gradation of the internal main road with both side footpath including side
drain, electric post, sitting arrangement at a certain interval & conduit from

main gate-] to auxiliary gate-2 via housing and boys hostel & auxiliary gate-
2 to main gate-| and auditorium to existing playground (old) at NIT Agartala

9 Construction of Computer Centre and Central Library (Knowledge Centre).

—

Supply, Installation, Testing & Commissioning of 14(fourteen) numbers lifts
in Administrative Building | & 2, School of Management, ECE building,
International Guest House & DONER and Central Library at NIT Agartala.

|

Special Repair, retrofitting and up gradation of Old Library building, at NIT
Agartala.

Construction of boundary wall at R.N. Tagore Hostel

Construction of ATM counter 04(four) nos at NIT Agartala
approach road through Auditorium to Main road near Aryabhatta hostel

Approach road New workshop building

 

19
20
21
22

48


--- Page 27 ---
49

WORK IN PROGRESS

ae
Special Repair, retrofitting and up gradation of Dhalai Hostel building, a
Agartala, Tripura

a Construction of 200 capacity Girls hostel at NIT Agartala, Tripura.

3 HVAC, Stage Craft, Stage Light, Sound System, Projector System, Siting
Arrangement in the Seminar Hall at NIT, Agartala.

a | Extension of height of boundary wall of NIT Ahgartala

Up gradation of 2-stored building adjacent to Knowledge Centre at NIT

7 Agartala

Car Parking Shed at NIT Agartala
Construction of Children Park at NIT Agartala

Annual maintenance of all the building including hostel and quarters of NIT
Agartala

pe Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC) of Lift installed at

NIT Agartala

Campus. Comprehensive Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC) of DG set
installed at NIT Agartala Campus.

 

UPCOMING PROJECTS

Sl. No. |Name of work

 

Water supply arrangement at NIT Agartala by way of constructing water

\ treatment plant based on ground water including construction of ground
water reservoir, installation of pump set and pipe line distribution system
and other allied works.

2 Central Lecture Hall.

3 Up gradation of Chemical Engineering Department (Old Library Building) .

4 Electromechanical work in the swimming pool of Sports Complex at NIT
Agartala.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 Extension of Academic Building at NIT Agartala.

6 Annual Mte. of 33/11 KV substation including transformer of different
capacity at NIT Agartala

7 Providing and fixing of firefighting facilities at NIT Agartala.

g Construction of Academic building for the Department of Planning and
Architecture(G+2 storied at NIT Agartala

9 Conversion of existing conventional lights and appliances to energy
efficiency lights and appliances.

10 Construction of 200 Capacity married research Scholar Hostel at NIT
Agartala

11 Construction of 2000 Capacity Auditorium at NIT Agartala.

12 Extension of Central Lecture Hall Complex at NIT Agartala

13 . Implementation of Rain Water harvesting bore well recharge facilities.

14 Up gradation of Internal road of NIT Agartala.

15 Master scheme for electricity distribution, Substations, DG Set & External
Electrical installations for NIT Agartala campus

16 Construction of the Convention Center at NITA.

17 Construction of Vocational skill Dev. Center at NITA.

18 Extension of existing Dispensary cum Hospital at NITA .

19 Campus Surveillances.

20 Waste (Soil & Bio-medical) Management, Disposal & Treatment at NITA.

21 Land Development.

22 Construction of Mechanical and Production building.

23 Construction of Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and MHSS building.

24 Repairing of existing building and renovation of the workshop and
laboratories.

25 Construction of Drivers, sweeper & cleaner rooms at NITA.

26 Supply, installation, testing & commissioning of High Mast Lighting
arrangement at NIT Agartala Campus.

27 Supply, installation, Testing and commissioning of internal electrification
works including Mtc. Of different building of NIT Agartala

28 Supply, installation, Testing and commissioning of AC Machine including
AMC of different buildings of NIT Agartala.

29 Supply, Installation, Testing, Commissioning and Replacement of damaged/
burned underground LT Cable under NIT Agartala.

30 Revamping of natural Lake and beautification of NIT Agartala

50


--- Page 28 ---
Find your calling

 

Civil Engineering

Mechanical Engineering

Electrical Engineering

Electronics & Communication Engineering
Production engineering

Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering

Chemical Engineering
Biotechnology & Biochemical Engineering

-

 

 

Geotechnical Engineering
Structural Engineering
Environmental Engineering
Transportation Engineering
Water Resources Engineering
Seismic Science & Engineering
Hydro Informatics Engineering
Thermal Science & Engineering
Manufacturing Technology
Machine Design

Automotive Engineering
Material Science & Engineering
Power Electronics & Drives

‘Power System Engineering

Instrumentation Engineering

Integrated Energy System

VLSI Design

Communication Engineering

Computer Science & Engineering
Artificial Intelligence

Computer Integrated Manufacturing
Chemical Engineering

Biotechnology & Biochemical Engineering

 

Photo

Gallery

 

52
