
--- Page 1 ---
STUDENT DISCIPLINE
MANUAL
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
(An Institute of National Importance, Under MoE, Govt. of India)
Jirania, West-Tripura-799046
2024

--- Page 2 ---
National Institute of Technology
Agartala
No.: NITA/DeanSW/Student/2024
Dated:
Prof. S. K. Patra
Director
Sub: Student Discipline Manual
Dear students,
Discipline holds paramount significance in educational institutions as it plays a vital role in
shaping the overall development of individuals. The presence of discipline ensures a healthy
learning environment where students can thrive academically, socially and emotionally as a
citizen. It fosters a sense of responsibility, self-control, and respect among students. It also
prepares them for the challenges in their future careers. To maintain discipline effectively, a
comprehensive manual for student discipline is indispensable. This manual serves as a
guiding document, outlining the code of conduct, rules, and regulations that students must
adhere to. It provides a framework for addressing disciplinary issues promptly and fairly,
ensuring a consistent approach in handling various situations. The manual also serves as a
reference for students, faculty, and administrators, promoting transparency, accountability,
and a shared understanding of behavioral expectations. With a well-designed manual for
student discipline, higher educational institutions can create an environment to nurture
personal growth, academic excellence, and ethical conduct.
An official manual on student discipline has been established and is enclosed herewith for
your perusal. However, it is imperative to recognize that the true value of this disciplinary
manual lies in its minimal utilization. I firmly believe every student at NIT Agartala will
uphold the principles of law and order for a healthy learning environment and in shaping the
future of all its students.
With best wishes to all
Prof. S. K. Patra
Encl: Student Discipline Manual

--- Page 3 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
Contents
S.No. Title Page No.
PREAMBLE 4
1 PHILOSOPHY OF DISCIPLINE ADMINISTRATION 5
1.1 Role of Institute Standing Disciplinary Committee 5
1.2 Principles of ISDC 5
2. RULES REGARDING CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINE 9
3. CONDUCT RULES FOR RESIDENTS OF HOSTELS 13
4. JURISDICTION OF THE CODE OF CONDUCT 16
ADMINISTRATION PROCEDURE FOR MAINTAINING
5. 16
CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINE
LIST OF POSSIBLE DETERRENTS THAT MAY BE
6. RECOMMENDED BY THE ISDC AND OTHER 21
COMMITTEES
TYPICAL OFFENSES TO BE CONSIDERED BY ISDC
7. 23
AND OTHER COMMITTEES

--- Page 4 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
PREAMBLE
The NIT Agartala campus is home to thousands of students and resembles a small nation
with varying cultures. As a community of students, staff, and professors, the institute must
balance encouraging individuals to share their intellectual pursuits and protecting their right
to do so with respect for all members. Student(s) need an accurate understanding of their
norms and boundaries. Disruptive behaviors affecting the institute's reputation must be
avoided to promote long-term growth in a holistic environment.
Keeping order at the institute falls primarily on the shoulders of the Director as per the NIT
Act 2007, under Article 17(2), but the administration needs the help of the Senate, the
faculty members, and the student bodies to do it successfully. The Student Disciplinary
Manual serves as a guiding framework for fostering an environment of respect, integrity,
and personal growth within our esteemed institution. It outlines the behavioral expectations,
standards of conduct, and disciplinary procedures that students are expected to follow. By
adhering to this Manual, students demonstrate their commitment to academic excellence,
ethical behavior, and responsible citizenship. The Manual is designed to promote fairness,
transparency, and accountability in addressing disciplinary matters, while also providing an
avenue for the holistic development of every individual. It is our collective responsibility to
create a nurturing and inclusive educational community where students can thrive
intellectually, emotionally, and socially. Faculty and students comprise the decision-making
group, although the Senate and its Chairperson have the final say. As a result of the high
standards to which NIT Agartala students are held, it is anticipated that the Discipline
Manual would be used only rarely. This preamble serves as a reminder of our shared
commitment to maintaining a conducive and harmonious learning environment for the
benefit of all members of our institution.
4

--- Page 5 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
1. PHILOSOPHY OF DISCIPLINE ADMINISTRATION
A higher education institution provides a scholarly environment for research and education
and is home to thousands of young students aspiring to pursue careers in knowledge-based
professions. The institution must provide a free and tranquil social environment. Individual
students may occasionally deviate from the path of responsible behavior, and it is the
responsibility of the institute administration not only to take corrective action when necessary
but also to anticipate and prevent such occurrences.
1.1. Role of Institute Standing Disciplinary Committee
✓ At NIT Agartala, the Institute Standing Disciplinary Committee (ISDC) of the Senate is
responsible for preventing unwarranted student behavior. This committee is also
responsible for investigating complaints received and advising the administration on policy
issues affecting student behavior on campus. It is also authorized to take independent
notice of any disciplinary issues and recommend corrective measures to address social
problems well before any unwarranted incident occurs.
✓ The ISDC is typically cognizant of the gravity of its role as steward of the institute's and
the government's trust on behalf of its more than 4,000 students and their families, faculty
and staff. The committee's mission is to maintain order on campus by reducing the
propensity for indisciplinary behavior by developing positive character traits in all
students. The committee would prefer to avoid punishing student(s), but this is not always
possible, given the constraints of human capability and counseling resources. The
committee should think that all across the world and throughout history, punishment has
been handed out as a way to protect the rights of others. For the greater good of society as
a whole, society imposes punishments on a select minority (who might likely be rectified
if adequate counseling and monitoring resources were invested, at the expense of societal
gains elsewhere).
✓ The ISDC is sometimes misunderstood as a retaliatory organization, but it should not be.
The ISDC does not consider punishment to be an act of revenge. Punishment serves
multiple purposes: it sends a message to other students that they should not commit the
same offense, discourages repeat offenses and safeguards the student body's interests. The
committee's responsibility is to gather evidence, assign a level of seriousness to the
offense, and suggest punishments proportional to the offense.
✓ The social dynamics of a college campus are unlike any other. There are several ways in
which the student body might be divided: seniors vs. first-year students, seniors vs. juniors,
final year vs. others, undergraduates vs. graduate students, in-state students vs. non-
residents, by major, by the hostel, by hostellers vs. day students, and so on. Gangs, toughs,
bullies, and rowdies are too common in our society. The ISDC's role is not limited to
responding to incidents when they are reported; instead, it must take preventative measures
to limit the spread of polarization. Adverse outcomes can have far-reaching effects on
people, the institution, and society at large.
1.2. Principles of ISDC
a. The justice system of the institute depends primarily on trust. The institute wants
students to grow in a comfortable, safe environment without intrusive surveillance.
This should give them autonomy to become society's leaders. The rare black sheep of
a community or a rare act of indiscipline that infringes on the rights of others to free
living should be severely punished so that it serves as a genuine deterrent against a
repeat offense by the same or a different individual.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
b. Certain offenses extend beyond the confines of the event itself and usually have
significant social repercussions. Newspaper accounts of fatalities and suicides of
graduate students can serve as an example. The Supreme Court of India has not treated
these cases as murder or manslaughter but as a far greater event called "Ragging," and
has dealt with them accordingly. The ISDC should view social issues in the same
manner. Assault on a fresher by a senior, fear of the final years in the minds of the pre-
final year or other junior students, state-based polarization, and other offenses of a
similar nature should not be treated as simple cases of interpersonal conflict but rather
as more deeply rooted problems that must be addressed at their source.
c. In contrast to the state police and judiciary, the ISDC of any institute, including NIT
Agartala, cannot use investigative equipment or qualified attorneys, nor can it afford
the delay typically associated with the legal process. On the other hand, given the
volatile nature of the pubescent mind, the consequences of an incorrect decision,
whether in favor of or against an accused, can be devastating. The student body, which
is much better informed about the truth, expects the ISDC to independently discover
the facts and impose penalties proportional to the offense. Even a "can't decide"
verdict leaves a question mark on both the complainant's and the defendant's character
records. The phrase "benefit of the doubt" should be a last resort. The committee must
reach a conclusion based on the statements of learners, educators, and officials, the
behavior of witnesses during an examination, and common sense. Even though it is
not as easy as it looks, ISDC has to complete the task without any delays.
d. ISDC is expected to make recommendations depending on the available information.
Frequently, it is impossible to establish the "real truth" "beyond doubt." While
punishing the incorrect individual is unlawful, sparing the culpable and creating a
dozen more innocent victims is cruel. The ISDC must choose between these two
atrocities based on its wisdom and the likelihood of being correct.
e. The ISDC is expected to receive suggestions for lenient punishment based on the
following grounds: (a) the complainant or the accused is newly enrolled and unaware
of the rules; (b) the complainant or the accused is on the verge of completing their
studies; (c) the accused may lose a good job offer; (d) the accused does not have a job
offer; (e) the accused is from a wealthy and respected family; (f) the accused is from a
low-income family, etc. It is neither equitable nor practicable to base punishments on
such irrelevant factors. The ISDC must prioritize the welfare of the student body as a
whole, neglecting such considerations.
f. Occasionally, the committee may discover the deeper root cause of a student's deviant
behavior. For instance, it can be a childhood incident that caused it, an incident at NIT
early in the student's career, an ongoing practice at the institute, or persistent leniency
by the institute in enforcing its regulations. These underlying causes must be
considered, and appropriate recommendations must be made to implementing
agencies, mainly when the fundamental cause lies within the institute.
g. The ISDC is expected to be considerate when deviant behavior can be traced to
childhood incidents or associated causes. When the underlying cause is a bad social
practice, the committee may impose a lenient or severe (exemplary) punishment. It
must consider the long-term effects of its decision to reduce future occurrences.
However, these considerations should not be overstated. Separate offenses that are
blatant deviations from well-established standards of personal conduct should not be
viewed as part of a larger social ailment. An institution's ongoing practice or laxity in
6

--- Page 7 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
promoting awareness cannot be used to justify perpetrating a fundamentally
intolerable offense.
h. Early admission of culpability accompanied by full disclosure of all relevant facts
should be rewarded with a reduced punishment that is still proportional to the offense.
This will encourage complainants, defendants, and witnesses to tell the truth early. It
is precisely the responsibility of ISDC student members to disseminate this message to
all parties involved. Even delayed statements of truth should be accepted with some
leniency; otherwise, witnesses and defendants will have no incentive to reveal the
facts, prolonging the investigations.
i. The investigation relies heavily on the testimony of witnesses. False evidence to
safeguard a friend or chastise an enemy should be punished severely.
j. Insubordination increases when students fear making a complaint or believe that their
complaints will not be addressed. The ISDC must act swiftly on complaints.
Complainants must be shielded from further harassment and frivolous counter-
complaints, such as violating a rule unrelated to the case at hand, inciting an offense,
etc. In actuality, it would not be unjust to provide a certain degree of "concession in
penalty" to students who are culpable but provide crucial information to ISDC in
solving more significant cases of severe insubordination.
k. Making a fraudulent complaint or concealing pertinent information during an
investigation is a serious offense, and any indication of such conduct should be
thoroughly investigated; the penalty for a false complaint is severe. However, a
complainant should be believed until sufficient evidence establishes his culpability for
filing a malicious complaint. The ISDC must ensure that no one is afraid to file a
legitimate complaint and that no one can flee after filing a maliciously false
complaint.
l. Occasionally, a victim or witness of a crime is too afraid to file a complaint. The dread
stems from two sources: (a) the offender's retribution and (b) the social stigma of
being responsible for the punishment of a fellow student. ISDC, the Senate, and the
administration are responsible for instilling confidence among the student body that a
complaint will be handled fairly and expeditiously by ISDC. The students must also
be made aware that early action against a companion protects them from much harsher
punishments in the future.
m. The ISDC and other administrative agencies should investigate student offenses and
take action without waiting for a victim to file a formal complaint. A victim's
complaint should be viewed as merely one of the information channels available to the
ISDC. While the committee should try to avoid student animosity, a complaint of
severe offense cannot be withdrawn by the complainant. This principle will protect
victims of crimes from undue pressure exerted by not only the accused and his
associates but also the accused's peers.
n. If any, mitigating and aggravating circumstances may be taken into account. If there
are substantial mitigating circumstances, such as excellent cooperation from the
accused or a stellar record under challenging circumstances, the ISDC should opt for a
light punishment; however, if there are aggravating circumstances (such as poor
cooperation, a history of insubordination, having been punished, pardoned, or not
being adequately investigated), the penalty should be severe. If the mitigating
circumstances are extreme, ISDC can prescribe a sentence below the range listed,
7

--- Page 8 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
while if the aggravating circumstances are extreme, ISDC can prescribe a deterrence
above the range indicated.
o. Every disciplinary issue is unique, necessitating a unique investigation procedure and
remedy. The institute can only focus on a student's career, grades, graduation date, etc.
The penalty list presented in this pamphlet is based in part on warning, financial
penalty, community service, etc., and in part on grades and graduation date, with the
latter being limited to serious offenses. The regulations reserve temporary or
permanent expulsion for the gravest of offenses.
p. Certain violations are deemed more severe by the regulations than others. They
include offenses committed using a computer or similar communication device (due to
the ease with which a computer can cause great harm), offenses against female
students (since they are less likely to retaliate), and examination and grading system
tampering (since the future of the entire student body depends on the integrity of the
institute's grading system). In every instance, however, the penalties have been milder
than those imposed by state laws and traditional universities.
q. The institute's disciplinary system's objective is reducing repeat offenses; punishment
is one of how this objective is achieved. In the case of social offenses, it is far more
effective to deter wrongdoing by fostering a positive attitude among the entire student
body than by issuing isolated punishments in detected cases. While exemplary
punishments are unquestionably effective deterrents, a penalty structure that induces a
greater voluntary response may be even more effective. In fact, a combination of
carrots and sticks is likely to be the most effective.
r. This is possible through the Director's "executive clemency" authority, which allows
him to devise a penalty pattern less severe than the ISDC recommended. The ISDC
should propose viable alternatives to its recommendations proactively. It should be
noted that ISDC decisions serve as precedents and that future penalties must adhere to
this pattern. However, the Director's clemency will be granted on a case-by-case basis
in response to the circumstances and will not serve as a precedent for the future.
8

--- Page 9 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
2. RULES REGARDING CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINE
i. Student(s) must behave with good conduct commensurate with their affiliation with
NIT Agartala as an Institute of National Importance. In addition to being innovative and
chasing academic excellence, students must cooperate with ethics and morality.
Student(s) are prohibited from engaging in any behavior that undermines the honor and
reputation of the institute.
ii. Student(s) are expected to respect the institute's faculty members, the wardens and
supervisors of the hostels, the sports officers, the officers of the National Cadet Corps,
security personnel, and the institute's employees and elders. They must also treat guests
and visitors with appropriate respect and courtesy. Student(s) shall exhibit proper
decorum and behavior inside and outside the premises.
iii. Student(s) are required to develop a friendly relationship with fellow students. In
particular, they are expected to show kindness and consideration to the new students
admitted to the institute every year. The law bans ragging in any form to anybody.
Ragging constitutes one or more of any of the following acts:
a. Any conduct by any student or students, whether by words spoken or written or by an
act that has the effect of teasing, treating, or handling a fresher or any other student
with rudeness.
b. Indulging in rowdy or indisciplined activities by any student or students which causes
or is likely to cause annoyance, hardship, physical or psychological harm, or to raise
fear or apprehension thereof in any fresher or any other student.
c. Asking any student to do any act which such student will not in the ordinary course do
and which has the effect of causing or generating a sense of shame, torment, or
embarrassment so as to adversely affect the physique or psyche of such fresher or any
other student.
d. Any act by a senior student(s) that prevents, disrupts, or disturbs the regular academic
activity of any other student or a fresher.
e. Exploiting the services of a fresher or any other student for completing the academic
tasks assigned to an individual or a group of students.
f. Any act of financial extortion or forceful expenditure burden put on a fresher or any
other student by students.
g. Any act of physical abuse, including all variants: sexual abuse, homosexual assaults,
stripping, forcing obscene and lewd acts, gestures, causing bodily harm, or any other
danger to health or person.
h. Any act or abuse by spoken words, emails, posts, or public insults, which would also
include deriving perverted pleasure, vicarious, or sadistic thrill from actively or
passively participating in the discomfiture of a fresher or any other student.
i. Any act that affects the mental health and self-confidence of a fresher or any other
student with or without an intent to derive a sadistic pleasure or showing off power,
authority, or superiority by a student over any fresher.
j. Any act of physical or mental abuse (including bullying and exclusion) targeted at
another student (fresher or otherwise) on the grounds of color, race, religion, caste,
ethnicity, gender (including transgender), sexual orientation, appearance, nationality,
9

--- Page 10 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
regional origins, linguistic identity, place of birth, place of residence, or economic
background.
Any students, senior or fresher, who has witnessed ragging on or off campus must
report the incident to a warden, the chief warden, or a designated faculty member.
Failing to report it will be considered a serious offense even if one is not personally
involved in a hazing incident. Suppose a junior student yields to any form of ragging by
senior students and does not inform the institute or hostel authorities or willfully
withholds information in an investigation of a ragging incident. In that case, the matter
will be viewed as indisciplined by the junior students, resulting in punishments
comparable to those against ragging. The deliberate suppression of a complaint by a
junior student does not exempt a senior from punishment.
iv. Students must respect the rights and dignity of other students, employees, and visitors
of the institution, and they must maintain an environment that is free from all forms of
harassment and discrimination, such as regional, lingual, complexion, gender, caste,
race, religion, physical and mental disability, etc.
v. Students must exhibit the utmost levels of honesty and integrity both on and off
campus. They should not provide false statements or fraudulent documents in any
applications or award of prizes, scholarships, or other benefits. Students should not give
falsified statements to the disciplinary committee or any.
vi. Academic studies should be conducted with honesty and concentration. They must
avoid academic misconduct, including plagiarism, copying, cheating, and deceptive
examination practices.
vii. Students shall not quarrel or fight with insiders or outsiders of the institute, alone or in a
group, which is strictly punishable irrespective of who initiated the conflict.
viii. Displaying lack of courtesy and decorum and resorting to indecent behavior anywhere
within or outside the campus is strictly prohibited.
ix. Students are expected to spend their free time in the library/reading room. They shall
not loiter along the verandahs, rooftops, or crowd in front of the offices or the campus
roads. Students should refrain from sitting on ramparts, stairs, footpaths, etc.
x. Students are prohibited from indulging in anti-institutional, anti-national, antisocial,
communal, immoral, or political expressions and activities within the campus and
hostels.
xi. Politically based students and other organizations or outfits are prohibited on campus.
Students are strictly prohibited from organizing, attending, or participating in any
activity or agitation sponsored by politically based organizations.
xii. Students should not produce, fabricate, manipulate, or circulate any information,
allegation, baseless charges, propaganda or manipulated evidence, etc., against any
individual or office/department/institute, that could affect or harm the department/
institute/ society/ nation.
xiii. Students shall not deface, disfigure, damage, destroy, or cause any loss in any manner
to or regarding public, private, or institute properties.
xiv. No student shall collect money either by request or by coercion from others within the
campus or hostels.
10

--- Page 11 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
xv. Students shall only use the waste bins to dispense materials within the campus,
including classrooms, hostels, offices, canteens and messes.
xvi. The institute being a place of learning and an exclusive academic zone, nobody shall
respond to any call for any form of strike, procession, or agitation, including slogan
shouting, dharna, gherao, burning in effigy, or indulging in anything that may harm the
peaceful atmosphere of the institution, and shall eschew violence on the campus and
hostels and even outside.
xvii. Unauthorized entry of outsiders into the campus, as well as hostels, is strictly
prohibited. Without specific permission of the authorities, students shall not bring
outsiders to the institute or hostels.
xviii. NIT Agartala campus is a "tobacco-free and alcohol-free campus". Students are
prohibited from engaging in activities such as smoking, consuming alcohol, tobacco,
drugs, or any other hazardous substance that could negatively impact their health and
academic performance or conduct. No student may promote, produce, sell, or distribute
such intoxicating substances on or off campus. Additionally, no student may sell or
distribute any items.
xix. Possession or use of weapons, explosives, and destructive items against the security and
safety norms are strictly prohibited inside and outside the Institute premises.
xx. Students must not engage in any harassment activities, such as physical, mental, social,
and sexual.
xxi. Students must not use mobile phones or electronic gadgets inside the classroom (theory
and laboratory). They must not be involved in activities like audio-video recording,
capturing pictures, and streaming audio or video of any individual, class, laboratory,
workshop, meetings, social gatherings, or private zones unless they have permission
from the authority.
xxii. Students should not invite media inside the institute premises without prior approval of
the competent authority. They must not circulate any information, photographs, or
audio/video clips of any activity to any kind of media, such as print, electronic,
and social, without prior approval of the competent authority of the institute. Because
this may damage the reputation of the institute. They should not communicate with any
media person on behalf of the Department/Institute or any individual without prior
approval of the competent authority.
xxiii. Getting involved in an activity that violates state or national laws is strictly prohibited.
xxiv. Students should take all precautions and security measures for their health and safety.
They should strictly adhere to the preventive measures, safety and security instructions
inside and outside the campus, including laboratory classes, workshops, sports and
games activities, gymnasium, etc.
xxv. Students are not allowed to use automobiles on campus. They should park their vehicles
in appropriate designated locations only.
xxvi. Students should always carry their institute identity card inside the campus and produce
it for verification whenever asked by any faculty, staff or security person.
xxvii. As a responsible citizen of the nation, it is imperative for each student to preserve and
protect the environment; keep the surroundings neat and clean; protect and plant trees;
avoid the use of plastic; and keep their academic and other facilities clean and
maintained. Student(s) should also maintain their personal hygiene and cleanliness.
11

--- Page 12 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
xxviii. Students shall not, through act or omission, assist another student, individual, or group
in committing or attempting to violate this Code of Conduct. Any student who has
knowledge of another student(s) committing or attempting to commit an act violating
the Code of Conduct must report the same to the respective authority of the institute and
must keep herself/himself away from that situation/activity. Intentional failure to report
such incidents will lead to punishment.
12

--- Page 13 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
3. CONDUCT RULES FOR RESIDENTS OF HOSTELS
1. Keep calm and quiet to maintain peace and harmony inside the hostel and mess.
2. Ragging (verbal/physical/psychological) is a crime and it is strictly prohibited on campus
and off campus. Punishment for raggers will obey the orders of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India. If you are a victim, you are requested to report the same to the
supervisor/warden/anti-ragging committee immediately.
3. Allotted room/floor/corridor/toilet must be kept neat and clean enough for healthy living
for all individuals. Students are also requested to follow the necessary COVID-19
protocols as per WHO regulations.
4. Personal laptops without an external speaker, mobile phones, or power banks are only
allowed for use. Use of any other electrical appliances for any reason is strictly
prohibited.
5. Fighting among each other in a group or as an individual is a punishable offense at any
circumstances.
6. Cooking and keeping pets are not allowed inside the hostel premises.
7. Using any kind of motor vehicle is strictly prohibited on the campus and hostel premises
for boarders of hostels. Students permitted to stay outside are allowed to come to the
institute using their own vehicles, but they should park their vehicle in the designated
parking area for them. Any student is restricted from using any kind of motor vehicle
without permission from the authority on the campus.
8. Smoking/chewing tobacco/consumption of alcoholic drinks or supplying any of these
items to others is strictly prohibited in hostel/campus premises.
9. Possession of lethal weapons like sticks, rods, knives, guns, bullets, pistols,
sickle/tatkal/daw, etc., in the hostel premises is strictly prohibited.
10. No hosteller can take any article or utensil from mess to outside, not even in the hostel
room.
11. Any unauthorized accommodation by the hosteller for friends, visitors, relatives at the
hostel room is strictly prohibited. Non-boarders, including day scholars, should not stay
in the hostel without prior written permission from the respective warden or chief
warden.
12. In the case of Gargi Hostel, only the lady guardians are allowed to visit the boarders on
Saturday, Sunday, and Institute Holidays only during 12:30 PM to 3:30 PM for the
duration of 30 minutes/as permitted by the concerned hostel authority, after submitting a
photocopy of the govt. issued identity proof.
13. Photograph pasting/drawing/writing on the wall of the room/furniture/door/bathrooms/
common area of the hostel is strictly prohibited.
14. The allotted rooms of the hostel cannot be interchanged or altered under any
circumstances without prior approval of the competent authority.
15. Hostel administration reserves the right to shift the residents from one room to another
room of the same hostel to maintain discipline at the hostel and campus premises.
16. Do not write your name, roll number, department on the room door because others will
use your room further in the following years.
17. Arranging any kind of celebration or Parties inside the hostel premises is strictly prohibited.
13

--- Page 14 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
18. Playing loud music or any activity that shall disturb the other students is strictly
prohibited within and outside the hostel premises by the students. Playing outdoor games
inside the hostel is strictly prohibited.
19. Hosteller is not allowed to remain absent from the hostel at night without prior
permission from the Chief Warden/Warden/Asst. Warden of that hostel. If found,
disciplinary action will be initiated with immediate effect. In special cases, if the boarders
want to visit his home, then he/she may take permission from the authority five days
before leaving the hostel through the MIS portal.
20. When the boarder is on leave or absent from the hostel, he/she can take a maximum of 8
days leave from the mess in a month with approval from the hostel authority.
21. No students are allowed to enter another hostel without prior permission from
wardens/supervisors. They must fill up all information in the register and keep an
identity card with security personnel before entering another hostel. If any students are
found in another hostel without prior permission, he will be considered a trespasser, and
strict disciplinary action will be executed.
22. Entering hostels of the opposite gender is strictly prohibited.
23. Entry to the hostels of junior students is not permitted in general. However, in exigencies
the senior students may enter the hostel with prior written permission of the respective
warden or chief warden.
24. Using the roof of any hostel/mess by the hosteller or anyone for any reason is strictly
prohibited.
25. Boys' hostellers are not allowed to stay outside of the hostel from 10.00 PM to 4.30 AM
for any reason except medical issues.
26. Girls' hostellers will be allowed to stay outside the hostel premises only as per the timely
notifications. In case of any medical emergency in odd hours, permission from the hostel
supervisor/warden is mandatory.
27. For the suitable management of the hostel mess during the vacation, the hostellers having
backlog exams may come to the hostel one day before the particular exam and leave the
hostel the next day of the completion of the exam and prior approval from the competent
authority has to be taken in advance for staying in a hostel during the vacation period.
28. For proper supervision of the regular latecomers at the hostel, a late entry register will be
maintained, and after 3 numbers of late entries against any hosteller, one warning letter
will be issued to him/her. Despite the warning letter, if the student is late, it will lead to
disciplinary action.
29. Intentional damage to any item in the hostel room/floor/corridor is the liability of the
occupant to get it repaired/replaced. Moreover, damage to hostel property, such as doors,
windows, electrical fittings, toilet fittings, glass panes, lift, cooler, geyser, etc., will lead
to disciplinary action, and the expense for repairing should be borne by the students
involved.
30. Misuse of water, electricity and other facilities is liable to disciplinary action. The
electrical items should be switched off when no one is staying in the hostel room or
common rooms of hostels.
31. The hosteller is solely responsible for keeping valuable belongings with him/her. Hostel
administration shall not be liable for loss/damage of such valuable items.
14

--- Page 15 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
32. Each student residing in the hostel must join in the mess attached to it. Individual
cooking in hostels and messing outside are not permitted. Mess rules as notified by the
authority from time to time shall be observed by the boarders.
33. Mess fees must be paid along with the semester hostel fees in advance, as per the time-
to-time notifications.
34. Students' mess activities shall be limited to the allotted space only. The mess shall
function as a single integrated unit without any division in any groups or subgroups and
shall be managed by the students' committee for this purpose under the convenorship of
the warden/ chief warden.
35. Do not waste food in the mess. Take all you want, but eat all you take. Food will not be
served before or after the prescribed timing. Sometimes, unintentional delay may happen
to prepare food and get ready in the mess by the mess staff. Keep patience and obey the
mess rule for this occurrence.
36. Student(s) shall be required to make their rooms available whenever required for
inspection, repairs, maintenance or disinfecting and shall vacate the rooms when leaving
for the vacations/holidays.
37. Students shall be responsible for the proper care of the doors, windows, furniture, fan,
and other fittings in the rooms allotted to them and shall generally assist the Warden in
ensuring proper use, care and security of those provided in the hostels of common use of
all students.
38. The inmates of the hostel should not leave the premises on holiday for the purpose of
excursion or picnic without prior intimation to the warden office and subsequent
permission of the chief warden. However, for any incident or fatalities, the institute will
not be responsible in any way.
15

--- Page 16 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
4. JURISDICTION OF THE CODE OF CONDUCT
The institute has authority over the conduct and behavior of all students enrolled in the
institute or visiting for any reason and shall take action as deemed necessary.
5. ADMINISTRATION PROCEDURE FOR MAINTAINING CONDUCT AND
DISCIPLINE
All major acts, reports and complaints of indiscipline shall be handled by the institute's
standing disciplinary committee (ISDC) with the constitution as follows:
S.No. Committee Member Role in the Committee
1. Dean (Student Welfare) Chairperson
2.&3. Associate Dean (Student Welfare) Member(s)
4. Chief Warden Convenor
5. Respective Hostel Warden Member
6. Respective Head of the Department/1st year coordinator Member
7. Respective Faculty Advisor Member
8. & Two faculty members nominated by Dean SW of which Member(s)
9. one shall be women and other from SC/ST/OBC
Cases of adoption of unfair means in an examination shall be reported to the Dean of
Academic Affairs for taking appropriate action. The action will be as follows:
Any student involved in adopting unfair means in the mid/end term examination will be expelled
for the subjects in which he/she has adopted unfair means.
Such students will be awarded an ‘F’ grade in those/that subject(s) and will be reported to a
committee for counseling. The committee will comprise the following members:
S.No. Committee Member Role in the Committee
1 Professor (Nominated by Competent authority) Chairperson
2 & 3 Dean Academic Affairs and Dean Student Welfare Member(s)
4 Professor (Nominated by competent authority) Member
5 Associate Dean (Academic Affairs)-UG Member
6 Associate Dean (Academic Affairs)-PG Member
7 Head of the Department of Concerned Students Invitee Member
8 Deputy Registrar (Academic Affairs) Member
9 Associate Dean Examination Convenor
16

--- Page 17 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
If the student repeats the offense, he/she will be rusticated from the institute.
All minor acts of indiscipline, misconduct, misbehavior and any other as decided by the Dean
Student Welfare shall be taken care of by the following subcommittee (5-member
committee):
S.No. Committee Member Role in the Committee
1. Chief Warden Chairperson
2. Respective Head of the Department/1st year Member
coordinator/ Representative from Department
3. Respective Hostel Warden/ Faculty Advisor Convenor
4. Two faculty members nominated by Dean SW of which Member(s)
one shall be women and other from SC/ST/OBC
A hostel disciplinary committee will look into any indiscretion in the hostel and propose a
course of action to the hostel warden. He/she shall choose and carry out the appropriate line
of action. If the issue is significant, the Warden will send a message to the Dean (SW) via the
Chief Warden. The Institute Standing Disciplinary Committee's Chairman, the Dean (SW),
will take the required steps. The following people will make up the hostel disciplinary
committee:
S.No. Committee Member Role in the Committee
1. Respective Hostel Warden Chairperson
2., 3. Other Boys/ Girls Hostel Warden (at least 2 members) Member(s)
4. Supervisor(s) of the respective hostel Convenor
5. One boarder of the hostel nominated by Chief Warden Member
in discussion with Warden
For cases related to placements and training under the Center for Career Development
(CCD), the unfair means must be communicated to the Chairman, CCD or Vice Chairman,
CCD. Further, the matter shall be taken care of by the following committee:
S.No. Committee Member Role in the Committee
1. Professor (Nominated by Competent Authority) Chairperson
2. Chairman, CCD Member
3. Vice Chairperson, CCD Convenor
4. & Two Assistant TPO (as nominated by the Chairman, Member(s)
5. CCD)
17

--- Page 18 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
✓ The Head of Department (HOD) or the Departmental Disciplinary Committee is
responsible for handling minor incidents of indiscipline, misconduct, misbehavior, and so
on. The student has the right to appeal the committee's disciplinary action or punishment
to the DSW or Dean of Academics or Head of Department, as appropriate. However, the
committee's/Dean's ultimate judgment is final and binding on all parties involved. The
class teacher can manage cases of disobedience in the classroom or laboratory by
expelling the student, noting the student absent for a few classes, or deducting points
under the Teacher's Assessment.
✓ Senior faculty members are expected to act and mediate minor disciplinary issues before
they escalate into more serious problems, regardless of their administration
responsibilities. However, a complaint must be filed if the conflict cannot be resolved.
✓ When a warden or HOD receives a complaint, he must determine the seriousness of the
alleged infraction. In the event of a minor dispute, he is supposed to mediate and reach a
mutually agreeable resolution. If there is any little damage to institute property, the
offender is expected to pay to have it fixed or replaced before he is reported. However, the
incident must be referred to the Dean (SW) or Director for official proceedings if it is of a
serious nature (such as group fighting, offense against female students, major damage to
institution property, and similar offenses). If a person involved in a conflict with another
person is not pleased with the remedy offered by the Head of Department (HOD) or
Warden, he can make a formal complaint to the Dean of Student Welfare or the Director.
✓ The Dean (SW) or Director may refer a complaint to the Warden or HOD for an amicable
settlement or to ISDC, depending on the nature of the offense. The ISDC will review
situations presented to it and suggest a deterrent to the Director for approval. The ISDC
report must list the students, charges, committee's conclusion, mitigating and aggravating
circumstances, and punishment recommendations. The Director may approve, return to
ISDC for evaluation, reduce the punishment, or submit to the Senate for a collective
decision. The Dean (SW) office will issue an order specifying the charges, conclusion, and
penalty. Record the serial number, offense, and punishment. The order will be provided to
impacted students, parents/guardians, faculty advisors, HODs, wardens, and
complainants. A separate notice describing the offense and punishment may be prepared
by SW office with Dean (SW) approval and posted on the notice boards without naming
the students involved to raise student awareness.
✓ The Director, at his/her discretion, may take additional measures keeping in mind
long term issues and their impact on other aspects of institute management. The Director,
in the capacity of Chairman, Senate, may make minor changes in the nature of punishment
awarded or reduce the level and/or quantum of punishment if he/she feels appropriate. But
he/she shall not increase the quantum of punishment recommended by the ISDC.
✓ In rare cases, when the director feels it to be appropriate in the interest of the Institute, he
may invoke, at any stage of the proceedings, the provisions of clause 17(2) of the NIT Act
2007 and decide a student disciplinary issue (deterrent and other administrative measures)
on his own, taking into consideration all prevailing circumstances.
Steps Involved:
18

--- Page 19 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
Commensurate with the gravity of the offence, the punishment may be the following:
i. reprimand,
ii. additional work in the institute or possible financial penalty up to Rs. 5,000/-
iii. debarment from student activities and elections and captaincy of sports teams,
iv. debarment from medals and prizes,
v. partial (one month or one semester) or complete debarment from campus placement.
vi. Academic suspension for one or two consecutive semesters
vii. expulsion from the hostel,
viii. rustication for a specified period, or
ix. outright expulsion from the Institute
Punishments under items (v) to (ix) will constitute “major punishments” and will debar a
student from all academic medals and prizes, as well as important non-academic awards. In
addition, for economic offenses (either misappropriation of money or damage to Institute
property), the cost to the Institute will be recovered along with a penalty, which may be up to
ten times of cost recovered.
For minor offense committed (a) in a hostel, (b) in the department or a classroom and (c)
elsewhere, the warden, the head of the department and the dean of student welfare,
respectively, shall have the authority to reprimand, impose a fine, or take any other suitable
measure. All cases involving punishment other than reprimand or fine shall be reported to the
Chairman of the Standing Disciplinary Committee in a formal manner. All major acts of
indiscipline, which may have serious repercussions on the students in general and/or which
may warrant a uniform and more formalized nature of investigation, shall be handled by the
Institute Standing Disciplinary Committee appointed by the Senate. Any act of disobedience
and actions taken by the director will be reported at the Senate's next meeting. If the
opportunity still exists, the Senate may alter the sanction's nature and/or severity. The
Director, the standing disciplinary committee, or any administrative authority cannot
modify a
19

--- Page 20 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
punishment once it has been awarded and communicated. However, if new facts emerge, the
Senate may modify the punishment and take any other necessary corrective action. Typically,
trivial infractions and punishments will not be reflected on a student's conduct certificate. In
severe circumstances, however, the disciplinary committee, the director, or the Senate may
decide to make a notation on the student's Conduct Certificate.
20

--- Page 21 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
6. LIST OF POSSIBLE DETERRENTS THAT MAY BE RECOMMENDED BY
THE ISDC AND OTHER COMMITTEES
The following disciplinary sanctions may be applied to any student who engages in any of the
prohibited conduct listed in this Code, depending on the seriousness of the misbehavior or the
frequency with which it occurs. Any student who is found to be habitually disobedient, to
have engaged in repeated or intentional acts of mischief, to have engaged in any form of
exam fraud or malpractice, or to be a potential threat to the welfare of other students will be
expelled. This list is given only as a basic guideline for the sake of uniformity across separate
incidents and is not intended to limit the powers and responsibilities of the Institute’s
Standing Disciplinary Committee. The committee is expected to use this list and the
guidelines given in Sections above and also to create innovative combinations of the
recommended deterrents.
P-1 Warning with undertaking for not repeating the mistake. [only for mild offences,
committed first time]
P-2 Parents of the student will be intimated.
P-3 Social work [Staying in vacation and helping Computer Centre, a Library, or
departmental work under supervision of a faculty member] or Possible financial
Penalty up to Rs. 5,000/-
P-4 Debarment from elected offices and captaincy of sports teams.; For placement
related offence: Debarred from further participation in the placement drive in which
offence was made
P-5 For hosteller: Outright Expulsion from Hostel.
P-6 Joining Physical Education/NSS/NCC as a non-credit course and securing a grade of
A or above (Except B. Tech First Year).
P-7 Debarment from Medals & prizes linked to academic performance, and prizes (e.g.
Sports, or any other) based on cumulative performance.
P-8 Placement facility withdrawn till mid semester exam of pre-final semester or for
remaining period of pre-final and final semesters for final year students with one job
offer.
P-9 Delay in publication of final results by 1 to 3 months; degree to be awarded in the
same year, if convocation dates permit.
P-10 Delay in publication of final results by 3 to 6 months; degree to be awarded in the
same year, if convocation dates permit.
P-11 F grade will be awarded in which subject(s) offence is made.
P-12 Placement facility withdrawn for pre-final semester including winter vacation.
P-13 Placement facility withdrawn totally (Cancellation of offers to final year student if
already given).
P-14 Academic suspension for one semester
P-15 Academic suspension for two consecutive semesters
P-16 Outright expulsion from the Institute
P-17 Outright expulsion from the Institute + FIR in police station.
Notes:
1. P-1 (Warning with undertaking for not repeating the mistake) will be automatically
added to all punishments from deterrent P-2 onwards.
2. P-2 (Parents of the student will be intimated) will be automatically added to all
punishments from deterrent P-3 onwards.
21

--- Page 22 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
3. P-7 (Debarment from medals and prizes linked to academic performance) will be
automatically added to all punishment from deterrent P-8 onwards.
4. P-8 (Placement facility withdrawn till mid-semester exam of 7th semester, or for
remaining period of 7th and 8th semesters for final year students with one job offer)
will be automatically added to all punishment from deterrent P-9 to P-10.
5. P-13 (Placement facility withdrawn totally) will be automatically added to
deterrents P-14 onwards. For hostellers, P5 will be automatically added to P14
onwards.
✓ For causing damage to Institute property by irresponsible behavior: recovery of cost at
the rate of 3 times the replacement cost of the damage, in addition to other
disciplinary measures. [If specific persons cannot be identified, it may be divided
among a group of students.]
✓ Financial dishonesty or stealing private or public property (conscious attempt to benefit
illegally, successful or unsuccessful): Three times the possible gain to the culprit +
other punishment.
✓ For repeat offenders, i.e., for being penalized the second time by the ISDC for the same
or a different offense, the punishment shall be higher by 1 step or more depending on
the circumstances.
✓ In the case of research students (Ph.D. and M.Tech. (2nd year)), the ISDC will work out
equivalent deterrents (with appropriate consideration for the greater sense of
responsibility expected out of senior students) in terms of loss of course or research
credits, loss of fellowship, delay in dispatch of thesis for evaluation after it is received
by the Academic Section, or partial or total expulsion from the institute.
22

--- Page 23 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
7. TYPICAL OFFENSES TO BE CONSIDERED BY ISDC AND OTHER
COMMITTEES
Code Offenses Deterrence
A. General Offenses
Misbehaving with a student in the hostel, in the bus or in any
OA-1 P1-P2
area outside the college premises.
Misbehaving with a student in the academic area, sports field
OA-2 or P1-P2
other activity area.
Riding automobiles on campus without prior permission.
OA-3 (For hostelers, refer to hostel offenses) P2, P3
Obstructing a student from pursuing his studies peacefully by
OA-4 P2, P3
persistent disturbance, loud noise, etc.
Throwing trash or spitting on the road, corridors, or public
OA-5 P1/P2/P3
places
Smoking or chewing tobacco in the academic area and hostel
(including roads and open space), canteens, playgrounds, and
OA-6 P3/(P4-P5)
other public spaces or being in a drunken or intoxicated state in
the campus area
Willfully causing minor damage to buildings, furniture or other
OA-7 P3#/(P4-P7)
resources.
Misbehaving with a faculty member(s), employee or visitor
OA-8 P3, P5-P7
anywhere, outside the class rooms.
OA-9 Harassing another student P3-P7
Entering an inside/outside water body, roof top or any
OA-10 location understood to be out of bounds to students for P5-P7
maintaining safety and security.
Misbehaving with a faculty member(s), employee or visitor in
OA-11 P3, P5-P8
drunken/ intoxicated state outside the class room.
Making unauthorized statements before print or electronic
OA-12 P3, P5-P9
media on matters related to institute administration.
OA-13 Damaging any Institute property in a drunken/intoxicated state P5-P9#
Misusing an elected office in the SAC or hostel common
OA-14 P7-P8, P10
room or library or class room for personal gain.
Tampering I-card, medical card or another identity given by the
OA-15 P7-P8, P10
institute.
Consciously not reporting an offense to authorities or
OA-16
withholding information from an enquiry officer. P7-P8, P10
Forgery, impersonation and other ways of using the identity of
OA-17
another student. P7-P8, P10
OA-18 Stealing private or public property. P7-P8, P10#
Willingly damaging, defacing or destroying a building,
furniture, equipment, book or other property owned or
OA-19 P12#
controlled by the institute or otherwise located within the
precincts of the institute.
Entering a barricaded area without authority approval,
OA-20 P12/P13
seriouslycompromising safety and security of self and others.
Participating in a group (3 or more students) to quarrel with
OA-21 P3-P7, P13
or to intimidate another student or an outsider or group of
23

--- Page 24 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
Code Offenses Deterrence
students
OA-22 Interacting with persons or groups believing in violence P3-P7, P13
Smoking in class, laboratory, library, seminar halls or
OA-23 P13
auditorium
Harassing female students through verbal abuse or written
OA-24 P13
abuse.
Creating division among students on the basis of religion, caste,
OA-25 P13
home state or any other criteria
Lying or showing disrespect to Institute Standing Disciplinary
OA-26 P12, P14
Committee or another inquiry committee.
Physically obstructing a faculty or staff member from
OA-27 P13, P14
performing his duty.
Threatening, abusing or assaulting an institute staff including
OA-28 P13, P14
contract labor.
OA-29 Stealing Institute property. P13#, P14
Interfering with a disciplinary proceeding by bribing,
OA-30 threatening or intimidating a witness or any other person P13, P15
related to a disciplinary case.
Threatening, abusing or assaulting a faculty member or
OA-31 P14/P15/P16
academic officer.
OA-32 Fighting with a student or outsider leading to physical injury. P14/P15/P16
Assaulting and injuring another student without sufficient fight
OA-33 P14/P15/P16
back.
Impersonating or signing for a faculty or employee of the
OA-34 institute or producing a forged document; taking over P15
function of an Institute staff or officer without authority.
Sexual harassment of a fellow student or of another person.
[“sexual harassment” means any unwanted sexual attention,
in the form of physical contact, comments, inappropriate
OA-35 gestures, suggestions, hints, innuendo or similar conduct which P15/P16
the perpetrator knows, or ought reasonably to know, will
create an environment in which the person subject to the
conduct is humiliated or denied his or her dignity.]
OA-36 Participating in a group fight leading to physical injury P14/P15/P16/P17
Unauthorized entry into a professor’s room, laboratory,
P14/P15/
OA-37 library or similar place e.g., by using a duplicate key, breaking
P16/P17
a lock or by any other means
Harassing female students through photographic, print or
OA-38 P15/P16/P17
electronic media
Organizing or leading a scuffle, fight or abusive quarrel
OA-39 P15/P16/P17
between groups of students in or around a student function.
OA-40 Possessing or using hallucinogenic drug P15/P16/P17
OA-41 Supplying or selling hallucinogenic drug P16/P17
OA-42 Possessing explosives, firearms or such dangerous items P16/P17
OA-43 Activities prejudicial to national security or communal harmony P17
B. Offenses related to harassment of freshers [ For Senior Students]
24

--- Page 25 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
Code Offenses Deterrence
OB-1 Calling first-year students to meet anywhere on campus or P3-P4/P5
outside
Making phone calls, handing over used books, offering to P3-P4/P5
OB-2 show the market to first-year students
OB-3 Meeting first-year students in a place where one of them P5/P6-P8
does not have a reason to be present at that time
OB-4 Calling a first-year student to a senior hostel or room P5, P13/P14
Entering a first-Year hostel without permission of the P3, P5, P7-P8
OB-5 Warden or
exceeding any other permitted limits
Using abusive language, asking names in impolite language or P3, P5, P7-P8,
OB-6
similar threats
P10
Organizing or participating in regimented activity such as
OB-7 P5, P13/P14/P15
walking with face down, wearing clothing of prescribed
design or other modes of subjugation
Slapping or beating a fresher or inflicting another
OB-8 physical/mental torture on one or more students P15/P16/P17
Participating in a group of seniors inflicting physical or mental
OB-9 torture on freshers P15/P16/P17
OB-10 Leading a group of seniors in a ragging activity P16/P17
C. Offenses related to harassment of freshers [ For Fresher’s]
OC-1 Not reporting an incident OB-1 to OB-5 involving another P1-P3
fresher
OC-2 Not reporting an incident OB-1 to OB-5 involving oneself P1-P3
OC-3 Not reporting an incident OB-6 to OB-10 involving another P1-P3
fresher
OC-4 Not reporting an incident OB-6 to OB-10 involving oneself P1-P3
OC-5 First year students using abusive language to senior students or P3, P4, P7
other first-year students
OC-6 Cooperating in offense #OB-1, OB-2 or OB-3 by senior P3, P4, P7
students
OC-7 Serving as a conduit for passing on ragging-related P3, P4, P7
message or materials from senior students to first year students
D. Academic Offenses
OD-1 Creating disturbance in class, library, laboratory or seminar etc. P1-P3
OD-2 Misbehaving with a professor in a class, laboratory, library, etc. P3, P5-P7
Submission of the same piece of one’s own work for P7-P9
OD-3
assessment and award of credit in two (or more) instances.
Consciously placing material from other sources in theses and P7, P8, P10
OD-4 Publications without acknowledging the author.
OD-5 Stealing, damaging or removing pages from library books and P13#
other library material.
Entering a class, laboratory, library, seminar or similar place P13, P14
OD-6 in an inebriated state.
Publishing (or otherwise claiming to be one’s own) a work P14/P15
OD-7 without consent of other researchers, including one’s
research guide.
25

--- Page 26 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
Code Offenses Deterrence
OD-8 Manipulating attendance or other ordinary academic record by P14/P15
electronic or physical means.
Presenting a substantial volume of another person’s work as P14-P16
OD-9 one’s own in a thesis or publication.
Manipulating grades and vital academic records through
OD-10 electronic or physical means. P16/P17
E. Examination Related Offenses
OE-1 Creating disturbance in an examination hall P2
OE-2 Misbehaving with a classmate in the examination hall P2, P6
Possession of a mobile phone or similar communication P2, P7-P11
OE-3 device in active state in an examination
Writing formulas or material on a question paper that can P2, P7-P11
OE-4 Help a fellow student during an examination.
OE-5 Talking to another examinee or an outsider during examination. P2, P7-P11
OE-6 Writing on the desk in the examination hall P2, P7-P11
OE-7 Allowing another student to copy from one’s answer script P2, P7-P11
OE-8 Misbehaving with a professor/invigilator in an examination hall P2, P7-P11
Consulting a paper, book or a person in t h e corridor, P2, P7-P11
OE-9 toilet or
another place during the exam
OE-10 Possession of a chit with relevant material in an examination. P2, P7-P11
Carrying relevant material by writing on one’s body (palms, P2, P7-P11
OE-11 legs, etc.,) or clothing to examination.
Possession of a book or significant quantity of written P2, P7-P11
OE-12 material in examination hall.
OE-13 Copying from the examination script of another candidate P2, P7-P11
Going outside examination area (i.e., outside hall, toilet and P2, P7-P11
OE-14 connecting passage) for any purpose.
OE-15 Sending question paper or answer script outside examination P2, P7-P11
hall
OE-16 Submitting an answer script with answers written outside the P2, P7-P11
hall.
OE-17 Threatening an invigilator or a teacher P2, P7-P11
OE-18 Impersonating another candidate in examination of allowing P2, P7-P11
oneself to be impersonated
OE-19 Deliberately acquiring advance knowledge of detailed content P14/P15/P16
of an examination paper.
OE-20 Large scale, organized activity for influencing examination P16/P17
process, grades or academic records.
F. Cyber Offenses
OF-1 Tampering with one’s own electronic identification system P13, P14/P15
normally employed for giving access or attendance.
OF-2 Placing indecent material or any material likely to disturb P13, P14/P15
harmony within the institute in NIT Agartala or other websites.
OF-3 Gaining access into the personal computer of another P14/P15
student and
altering content without the owner’s consent.
OF-4 Gaining access into the computer account of another student P14/P15
in a departmental or central computer.
OF-5 Stealing or otherwise possessing electronic password of a P14/P15
26

--- Page 27 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
Code Offenses Deterrence
faculty, staff member or an outsider related to the institute
Without latter’s consent.
OF-6 Passing on the electronic password of a faculty or staff
member or an official password to a third person without the P14/P15
consent of
the owner
Harassing a fellow student by using electronic media [SMS,
OF-7 Email, Web site] P15/P16/P17
Gaining access and using the personal computer of a faculty
OF-8
or staff member or his account in a departmental or central
P15/P16/P17
computer by stealing his password or by other means.
Harassing or publicly humiliating a female student or another
OF-9
female individual by circulating objectionable material over
P15/P16/P17
electronic media.
OF-10 Using a computer (own account or that of another individual) P15/P16/P17
for doing serious mischief or for personal gain.
OF-11 Gaining access to the administrative account of a departmental
or central computer system, or to any official user account
P16/P17
without
authority, irrespective of the motive.
G. Hostel Offenses
OG-1 Use of unapproved electrical appliances for any reason P1-P3
OG-2 Creating disturbance in hostels or in mess with loud noise P2, P3
OG-3 Cooking and keeping pets inside the hostel premises. P1-P3
OG-4 Interchanging the allocated rooms in hostels P2-P3
OG-5 Arranging any kind of celebration/Party inside the hostel P2-P3
premises
OG-6 Using the roof of any hostel/mess by the hosteller/any student P2-P3
for any
reason
OG-7 Using any kind of motor vehicle in the hostel area P2-P3*
OG-8 Misuse of water, electricity and other facilities P2-P3#
OG-9 Taking utensils from hostel mess P2-P3#
OG-10 Photograph pasting/drawing/writing on the wall of the P2-P3#
room/furniture/door/bathrooms/ common area of the hostel
OG-11 Writing roll no., name and other details on doors P2-P3#
OG-12 Leaving hostel at night without permission P2, P3/P5
OG-13 Leaving hostel without taking leave from hostel or without P2-P3/P5
informing the hostel authority
OG-14 Any unauthorized accommodation by the hosteller for P5
friends/visitors/relatives at the hostel room
OG-15 Leaving hostel in group/ individual for picnic without P5
permission
OG-16 Smoking/Chewing tobacco/ drinking/ intoxicating in the hostel P3, P4-P5
area or having any such materials or staying in
intoxicated/drunken state
OG-17 Playing outdoor games inside the hostel area P2, P3#/P5#
OG-18 Intentional damage to any item in the hostel room/floor/corridor #P2-P4/P5
OG-19 Entering the hostels of 1st year students or mess of 1st year P3, P5, P7-P8,
students P10
OG-20 Entering hostels of the opposite gender. P5, P16
27

--- Page 28 ---
Student Discipline Manual NIT Agartala
Code Offenses Deterrence
OG-21 Possession of weapons such as knives, rods, sticks, etc., in P16/P17
the hostel premises (using it for purpose it was not intended too)
H. Placement Offenses
OH-1 After registration, UG students not participating in all the P1-P3,P8 (for
campus recruitment drive of the institute repeat offender )
OH-2 After registration, PG students not participating in all the P1-P3, P8 (for
campus recruitment drive of the institute repeat offender)
OH-3 Registered students not participating in the respective pre- P4, P8 (for repeat
placement talk and any other proceeding in the placement offender)
process given by a company
OH-4 Adoption of unfair means during tests/ examination related to P8
placement process.
OH-5 Any misbehavior by any students during the placement process, P8,P13
with CCD team/officials, HRs, technical persons
*-Vehicles will be seized till course completion;
#-3 times the cost required for repairing will be charged along with P2-P3.
Note:
i. All other offenses will be made equivalent to one of the above by the ISDC, considering the
nature of the offense and the circumstances.
ii. Higher penalties may be given if announced in advance under special situations. For example, in
a public function, if it is announced that crossing barricades will invite expulsion from the
institute, such punishment may be given.
iii. In case of multiple offenses of comparable seriousness, the penalty shall be at least one step
higher than the highest penalty of individual offences.
iv. If a student makes a false complaint against another student, the penalty on the former student
will be at least one step higher than the highest penalty recommended for the offense charged.
v. All the decisions made are subject to the approval of the respective authority.
28