
--- Page 1 ---
ABOUT THE INSTITUTION
CHIEF PATRON
Established in 1965 as Tripura Engineering College. Prof. S. K. Patra Director
Later, the Government of India converted the Tripura National Institute of Technology Agartala
Engineering College to National Institute of Technology
Agartala on 1st April 2006. NIT Agartala is an Institute of PATRON
National Importance was instituted by Government of Prof. Arvind Kumar Jain
Four Week Summer
India with the mission to herald excellence in technical Head, Department of Electrical Engineering National
Institute of Technology Agartala Internship
education and research in the North-East region. NIT
Agartala offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and (27 th Juneto 24 th July 2025)on
COORDINATOR
doctoral programs in various fields of engineering,
science, humanities, and management. The institute is Mr. Diptanu Dey
renowned for its academic excellence, research
Assistant Professor
“Hands-on Sensor Technology:
initiatives, and industry collaborations. NITAgartala Department of Electrical Engineering
Design, Integration and Applications
boasts state-of-the-art infrastructure, well-equipped National Institute of Technology Agartala
”
laboratories, and a conducive learning environment.
VISION CO-COORDINATOR
Institute is committed to develop highly competent Dr. Diptanu Das Sponsored by
young Engineers, Scientists, and Management
Electrical Engineering Department
Department of Electrical Engineering
Professionals to cater to the ever-increasing
(NIT Agartala)
National Institute of Technology Agartala
techno- managerial needs of national and
ADVISORY COMMITTEE
international standards fulfilling professional ethics
Prof. Priyanath Das
and societal commitment. Dr. Rup Narayan Ray
Dr. Subhadeep Bhattacharjee
MISSION
Dr. Joyashree Das
To produce techno-managerial human resource in line
Dr. Sadhan Gope
with global need offering state-of-the-art facility,
Dr. Nivedita Laskar
research and training in engineering and allied
Dr. Sharmistha Sharma
disciplines.
Department of Electrical Engineering
National Institute of Technology Agartala
ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE
Department of Electrical Engineering
Mr. Diptanu Dey
Department of Electrical Engineering NationalInstitute of Technology,
NIT Agartala, Tripura
Agartala,Tripura - 799046
Email : sensorlabeenita@proton.me
https://www.nita.ac.in/Department/Deptindex.aspx?
IMPORTANT DATES
Lastdate ofreceiptofapplication: 26 June, 2025
Notification about selection: by email

--- Page 2 ---
ABOUT ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING SPEAKERS HOW TO REACH NIT AGARTALA
DEPARTMENT
The speakers for this workshop will be from IITs, NITs, The Institute is 4 km away from Jirania on
The Department of Electrical Engineering is IIITs, NFSUs and industries. Assam- Agartala Highway (NH-44) and about 20
established in 1965 under the aegis of Tripura
km away from Agartala city. Agartala is well
Engineering College (TEC), a state engineering TARGETPARTICIPANTS
connected by Rail Road and Air. Pre-Paid Taxi
college of Tripura, which is upgraded as National
The internship is designed and intended for 2nd Year,
Institute of Technology on 1st April 2006. The and auto services are available from Agartala
3rd Year and final year U.G. students studying in
department offers a four years B.Tech program in
Airport to the Institute.
“Electrical Engineering”. The department offers 2 Electrical Engineering Department of NIT Agartala
years M.Tech programs in four specializations namely
About the Program REGISTRATION FEE & OTHER FACILITIES
Power System Engineering, Power Electronics
This 4-week summer internship offers an
&Drives, Instrumentation Engineering, and
immersive learning experience in sensor Internship will be conducted in Physical Mode.
Integrated Energy Systems.
technology, combining theory with extensive lab-
Internship registration fee is NIL.
The department is actively involved in high quality based experimentation. The program is tailored
for B.Tech students of EE Department, NIT
research and also running Ph.D. programs in especially No T.A./D.A. will be provided to the participants.
Agartala interested in sensor design, IoT
in Instrumentation, Power System, Power Electronics
integration, and real-world applications. The registrations are limited to 20 participants.
& Drives, Renewable Energy, Smart Grids, Electric
Objectives
Vehicles etc. The research interests of the faculty
• Learn fundamentals of sensor principles and
members include a wide range of sub-disciplines
of Electrical Engineering. The research activity of classifications.
the department includes fundamental research,
• Gain practical skills in calibration, interfacing,
sponsored and consultancy projects, and is carried
and signal processing.
out with the active participation of the students, For any query, please contact on email:
• Build IoT-based systems using Arduino /
faculty, and research staff.
sensorlabeenita@proton.me
Raspberry Pi.
• Collaborate on capstone projects addressing
real-world challenges.
Learning Outcomes
Design and implement sensor-based systems
•
• Analyze and troubleshoot sensor data
• Present technical solutions effectively