
--- Page 1 ---
National Institute of Technology,Agartala
Agartala -799 046 (Tripura)
NITA.74 (52yCW/Notification/2022/2 02 O8 Date-21.04.2025
NOTICE
This is to notify to all the hostellers of NIT Agartala for the following information regarding closer
of hostel and the upcoming summer vacation period:
Closer Date: The hostel will be closed for UG, PG (both Boys &G irls) from 16 May 2025.
Mess Operation: The regular mess will be closed from 16h May 2025. However, one mess each in
Boys and Girls hostels will remain open during summer vacation on payment basis for PG and PhD
students, It is mandatory for all hosteller whoever willb e residing during vacation will have to take
food in the mess considering hygiene and safety.
Leave application: Mess leave and hostel leave can be applied only up to 16" May 2025 .During
summer vacation period (16h May to 24h July 2025 ) leave applications will not be required.
Maintenance work: The hostels will undergo maintenance works during the summer vacation
.Except for PG and PhD students, no other students will be allowed to stay in the hostel premises.
Student opting for internship in and around Agartala are advised to make alternative
accommodation arrangement during this period.
Supplementary Exam: Students with supplementary exam will be permitted to stay in the hostel
one day prior to the exam, during the exam, and one day after exam. Relevant documents must be
submitted to the hostelo ffice via email (chiefwardennita@gmail.com) for approval.
Room Vacation and belongings: Continuing hostellers have to vacate their respective room and
deposit all belongings in a specified common room after proper ID labeling with ID tags before
leaving the hostel. Belonging must be collected by 24h July 2025.
Reopening information: The hostel and mess will be reopened on 25" July 2025.The Payment
portal for hostel fees will be accessible from 10n July 2025 till 25July 2025 only. Students must
complete the requisite hostel payment before returning to the hostel, regardless of availing loans.
Loan document submission: Students who have availed loan and received disbursement prior to
25" July 2025 will be allotted room provided relevant documents are sent to Chief Warden email
(Chiefwardennita@gmail.com) as well as upload the same in MIS.
Chief Warden,
NIT Agartala
Copy to:
1. PSt o the Director, for kind information of the Director.
2. The Dean (SW-I and SW-II). NIT Agartala. For kind information.
3. Registrar NIT, Agartala for kind information.
4. All H.O.Ds for kind information.
5. All Wardens and Supervisors of NITA Hostel for necessary action please.
6. System administrator for information with a request to upload the same.
7. Faculty in-charge MIS for kind information and necessary action.
Chhef Warden,
NIT A9artala