
--- Page 1 ---
3rd Semester:
UPE03XXX: Engineering Thermodynamics.
Introduction, Survey of units and dimensions, Zeroth Law, forms of energy and energy
interaction, heat and work, phase rule, ideal and real gases, equations of state, First law of
thermodynamics for closed loop system, internal energy and enthalpy, first law for control
volumes, steady flow and unsteady flow applications.
Second law of thermodynamics, statements and corollaries, entropy, concept, of reversibility
and irreversibility. Second law analysis for control volumes, concept of entropy generation,
reversible work, Availability and Irreversibility. Tds relations, Maxwell equations, clapeyron
equation, clausiusclapeyron equation, Joule Thompson coefficient, compressibility and
expansion coefficient. Air standard Engine cycle – Otto, Diesel, Dual combustion, Brayton
and stirling cycles. Steam power cycle – Rankine cycle, P-V & T-S plots, Rankine efficiency.
Vapour compression Refrigeration cycle. Third law of thermodynamics.
Text Books:
1. Nag. P.K, “Engineering Thermodynamics”, Tata McGraw Hills Co.Ltd.
References:
1. Mayhew, A and Rogers, B, “Engineering Thermodynamics”, Longman Green & Co.
Ltd, London, E.L.B.S. Edition,1990.
2. Van Wylen, G.J. and Sonntag, R.E., “Fundamentals of classical Thermodynamics
(S.J. Version)”, Second Edition,1986.
3. Bacon, D.H., “Thermodynamics”, Butter worth & Co., London,1989.
4. Saad, M.A, “Thermodynamics for Engineers”, Prentice-Hall of India Pvt. Ltd.1989.
5. Reynolds, “Thermodynamics”, Int. student Edn., McGraw Hill book co. Ltd.,1990.
6. Wark Kenneth,“Thermodynamics”.
7. Onkarsingh, “Applied Thermodynamics”, New Age InternationalPublishers.
8. Arora C.P., “Refrigeration and Air conditioning”, Tata McGeawHill.

--- Page 2 ---
UPE03B02: Solid Mechanics
1. Introduction: Internal forces – stresses and strains Elasticity – Hooke’s law –
Poisson’s ratio – Elastic constants and their relationship – stress-strain diagram for
ductile materials- Definition of Creep, fatigue and stress relaxation-statically
determinate and indeterminateproblems.
2. Bending of Beams: Beams- Loads-shear force and bending moment diagrams for
simply supported and cantilever beams-Pure bending- Bending stresses in straight
beams-shear stresses in bending of rectangular and I-section beams – Beams of
uniformstrength.
3. Torsion and Columns: Torsion of circular shafts stresses and twist in solid and
hollow shafts – Definition of columns – Types of columns – Equivalent length –
slenderness ratio – Rankin’s formula.
4. Biaxial Stresses: Analysis of biaxial stresses – Mohr’s circle – Principle stresses and
maximum shear stress – Deductions from Mohr’s circle – stresses in thin walled
pressure vessels – combined bending andtorsion.
5. Deflection of Beams: Differential equation of the elastic axis – Double integration
and area moment methods – strain energy in tension, compression, shear, bending and
torsion- Castigliano’stheorems.
References
1. Timoshenko; S and Young D.H., “ Elements of strength of materials,”, Vol. I and
Vol. II, T. van Nostrand Co., Inc., Princeton, N.J.,1988.
2. Malhotra, D.R. and Gupta, H.C, “The strength of Materials”, Satya Prakasan Tech.
India Publications, New Delhi,1987.
3. Kazimi S.M.A., “ Solid Mechanics”, Tata McGraw Hill,1976.
4. Dym. C.L. and shames I.H., “Solid Mechanics”, McGraw Hill Kogakusha, Tokyo,
1973.
5. Khurmi R.S., “Strength of materials”, S.C. Chand and Co.,1998.

--- Page 3 ---
UPE03XXX: Fluid Mechanics
Introduction: Definition of fluid, Concept of Continuum, Fluid Properties Fluid Static’s:
Body and surface forces, stress at a point, state of stress in fluid at rest and in motion,
pressure distribution in hydrostatics, manometers, forces on plane and curved surfaces,
Buoyancy and the concept of stability of floating and submergedbodies.
Fluids Kinematics: Scaler and vector fields, Eulerian and Lagrangian approaches, Material
derivation, velocity and acceleration, streamline, streak line and path line, Deformation,
rotation and velocity, Deformation rate and strain rate tensor, circulation.
Fluid Flow: System and control volume approaches, Transport theorems, Continuity
equation, Euler’s equation, Bernoulli’s equation, Momentum equations for stationary,
moving and rotating control volumes, Application of Bernoulli’s equation, static and dynamic
pressure.
Fluid measurements: Pitot tube, Siphon, Venturimeter, Orificemeter, Mouth piece, Sudden
expansion in a pipe, weirs and notches.
Viscous Incompressible flow: Introduction to Navier stokes equation, Boundary layer flow,
Drag and lift, Laminar and turbulent flow, Couette flow, Plane Poisuille and Hagen Poisuille
flow.
Internal Viscous flow: Reynold’s experiment, critical Reynold’s number, Darcy-Weisbach
and fanning friction factor, Moody’s diagram, Minor losses and flow through simple network
of pipes. Classification of Notches and Weirs; Discharge over a Rectangular Notches or
Weir; Discharge over Triangular Notches or Weir; Advantages of Triangular Notches or
Weirs over Rectangular Notches or Weirs; Discharge over a Trapezoidal Notches or Weir
andproblems.
Principle of Similarity: Physical similarity, Dimensional Analysis, Buckingham pi theorem,
Model studies and dimension less parameters, Froude number, Euler number, Mach number,
Weber number.
Flow through Pipes: Loss of Energy in pipes, Loss of energy due to friction; Minor energy
losses; Hydraulic gradient and total energy line and problems.
References
1. Shames, I.H., “Mechanics of fluids”, Kogakusha, Tokyo,1998.
2. Ratha Krishna, E., “Introduction to fluid mechanics”, Prentice-Hall, India,1987.
3. Yuan S.W., “Foundation of Fluid Mechanics”, Prentice-Hall,1987.
4. Milne Thomson, L.M., “Theoretical Hydro-dynamics”, McMillan,1985.
5. Kumar, K.l., “Fluid mechanics”, Eurasia Publishing House,1990.
6. Introduction to Fluid Mechanics and Fluid machines by S.K. Som and G.Biswas.
7. Fluid Mechanics by Victor L. Streeter.
8. Fluid Mechanics by Frank M.White.
9. Introduction to Fluid Mechanics by James A.Fay.
10. Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulics by J.Lal.
11. Fluid Mechanics by A.K.Jain.

--- Page 4 ---
UPE03B04: Manufacturing Processes I
Types of Production and production processes, Product configuration and manufacturing
requirements. Pattern making, allowances and core making.
Casting processes of ferrous and non-ferrous metals including die casting, investing casting,
centrifugal casting, loan moulding, transfer moulding. Solidification Principles, design of
moulds, risering, sprues and gating system, casting defects.
Metal joining processes: Soldering, brazing, fusion and non-fusion welding processes,
various modern welding processes like TIG, MIG, Submerged Arc welding, friction welding.
Weldingdefects.
Fundamentals of hot and cold working processes- Forging, extrusion and rolling.
1. Basic Joining Process
Types of welding –gas welding –are welding –shielded Metal arc welding, GTAW, GMAW,
SAW, ESW-Résistance welding (sport, seam , projection , percussion , flash type ) –Atomic
hydrogen arc welding –thermit welding –shouldering , brazing and braze welding ,
2. Design of Weldments
Welding symbol – position of welding –joint and groove design –weld stress –calculation –
design of weld size-estimation of weld dilution, heat input and preheat and post heat
temperature – computer application in weld design .
3. Special weldingprocess
Electron Beam and Laser beam welding –plasma arc welding – stud welding- friction
welding- explosive welding- ultra sonic welding h-under water welding -roll bonding –
diffusion bonding – cold welding –welding of plastic, dissimilar metal.
Text:
1. Khanna O.P., “ A Welding Technology”, KhannaPublishers.
References
1. Parmer R.S., “Welding process and technology,” khanna publisher s,1994.
2. Little, “welding technology,” Tata McGrawHill,1992.
3. Lancaster J.F., “metallurgy of welding”, George Allen and Unwin,1991.
4. Metals hand book, vol-6,8/e,ASM,1971.
5. AWS welding and book, Vol 1to4,AWS,
References
1. Manufacturing Technology: Foundry, Forming and Welding by P.N. Rao,TMH.
2. Principles of manufacturing Materials and processes, by James S. Campbell,TMH.
3. Welding Metallurgy by G.E. Linnert,AWS.
4. Production Engineering Sciences by P.C. Pandey and C.K. Singh, Standard Publishers
Ltd.
5. Manufacturing Science by A. Ghosh and A.K. Mallick, WileyEastern.

--- Page 5 ---
UPE03B05: Electrical machines
D.C Generator and Motors: Principle, Construction and function of various parts, methods of
excitation, armature reaction, characteristics of compound machines, motor torque equation,
characteristics, starting and speed control application. Transformers: Principle, construction,
emf equation, regulation andefficiency.
Induction Motor: Single phase I.M construction, principles of operation of different kinds of
single phase I.M., construction, principle and speed control of 3- phase I.M.
Alternator: Principle and construction, excitation and voltage regulation. Synchronous motor:
Principle, starting and speed control. Miscellaneous: Stepper Motor, Servo motor.
References
1. Electrical Machines by Nagrath I.J. and Kothari D.P.,TMH
2. Electrical Machines by Fitzgerald, Kingsley, Kusko, Dumas, MGH, 4thEdition.
3. Electrical Machinery and Transformers by J.L. Kosow, PHI, 4thEdition.
4. Advanced Electrical by Cotton H., Wheeler & Co.,1995.

--- Page 6 ---
UPE03P11: Solid Mechanics Laboratory
Tension Test: Stress-strain diagram, determination of yield strength, ultimate strength,
modulus of elasticity, percentage elongation and percentage reduction in areas; Compression
Test; Hardness Test; Brinel and Rockwell tests; Impact test: Charpy and Izod tests; Bending
test: determination of bending stresses; Fatigue test.
UPE03P 12: Fluid Mechanics Laboratory
Fluid flow measurements: Coefficient of discharge for venturimeter, Orifice meter, nozzle
meter, weirs. Flow through pipes: Determination of pipes friction in laminar and turbulent
flow remedies, Pitot tube experiments on viscous flows and boundary layer theory.
UPE03XXX: Workshop Process
Pattern making, pattern material, pattern allowances and types of patterns.
Mould making practice: uses of moulding tools: green sand moulding, gating system, risering
system, core making, study of cupola, basic Forging processes like upsetting, drawing down.
Gas welding, TIG, MIG, SAW
UPE03P14: Electrical Machines Laboratory
Constructional features of DC machines, open circuit and load test of DC shunt generators,
speed control and characteristics of DC shunt motor, OC and SC test, load test, regulation and
efficiency of transformers, study of different parts of a 3 phase induction motor, speed control
and load test on 3 phase I.M. Alternator performance determination, single phase induction
motor starting and speed control.

--- Page 7 ---
4th Semester
UPE04B06: Thermal Power Engineering
Water tube and Fire tube boilers, Circulating principles, Forced circulation, Critical Pressure,
Super heaters, Reheaters, Attemperators, Induced draught, Forced draught and secondary air
fans, Boiler Performance analysis and heat balance. Combustion systems, Environmental
Protection-ESP, Cyclone Separator, Dust collector etc.
Rotary Thermodynamic Devices- Steam turbines and their classification-Impulse and
Reaction type turbines, Thermodynamics of compressible fluid flow, equation and continuity-
Isentropic flow through nozzle, velocity diagram. Blade efficiency, Optimum velocity ratio,
multistaging, velocity and pressure compounding, losses in turbines, erosion of turbine
blades, turbine governing, performance analysis of turbine, condensing system, I C Engines-
classification.-Regeneration- Reheating- Reheating, Isentrophic efficiency. Combustion
efficiency.
Introduction to Heat Transfer, Models of heat transfer, steady and un steady state heat
Transfer, Fourier Law of Conduction, conduction of Heat through slab, Hollow Cylinder and
sphere, convection and heat transfer co-efficient, Natural and Forced convection, Introduction
to Radiation, concept of Black body, Monochromatic and Total emissive power, concept of
gray body, Kirchhoff’s law of radiation, Heat transfer by radiation, Heat exchangers, overall
heat Transfer coefficient.
References:-
1. Domkundwar, Kothandarman, Domkundwar, “A course in Thermal Engineering”(SI
Units),Dhanpat Rai&co.
2. V.P. Vasandani, D.S. Kumar,”Treastise on heat Engineering”, Metropolitan Book
co.Pvt.Ltd.
3. J. Selwinrajadurai,”Thermodynamics and Thermal engineering”, New Age International
Publishers.
4. P.L. Ballaney,”Thermal Engineering” (in S I units) Khanna PublishersDelhi.
5. Shyam K.Agarwal, “International combustion Engines” New age International
Publishers.
6. V.Ganeshan, “ Internal combustion engines “,3rded; Tata Mc GrawHill.
7. V.L. Maleev, “Internal combustion Engines”, International Studentedition.
8. Sharma &Mathur
9. R.Yadav, “Steam and Gas Turbines “(S.I. Units), Central Publishing House,Allahabad.
10. Gas TurbineV.Ganeshan
11. M. NecatiOzisik, “Heat Transfer –A Basic approach”, Mc Graw Hill International
Editions.
12. J. P. Holman, “Heat Transfer”- 8thed , Mc GrawHill
13. Steam TurbineKearton
14. Fundamentals of Heat and Mass Transfer by F.P. Incropera and D.P. Dewitt, 4th ed; John
Wiley &Sons.
15. Elements Of Heat Transfer by Vijay Gupta, 2nd; New Age internationalPublishers

--- Page 8 ---
UPE04XXX: Numerical methods for computing
1. Solution of Equation and Eigen valueproblems
Interactive methods , Newtons Raphson method for single variables and for simultaneous
equations with two variables , solutes of a linear system by Gaussian, Gauss-Jordan , Jacobi
and Gauss –Seidel methods . Inverse of matrix by Gauss –Jordan methods .Eigen value of a
matrix by power and Jacobi methods.
2. Interpolation
Newton’s divided difference formulae, Lagrange’s and Hermites polynomials. Newton
forward and back difference formulae. Stirlings and Bessel’s central difference formulae.
3. Numerical Differentiation and Integration
Numerical Differentiation with interpolation polynomial, Numerical integration by
Trapezoidial and Simpson’s (both 1/3rd and 3/8th “) rules. Two and three point Gaussian
quadrature formulae. Double integral using Trapezoidial and Simpon’s rule.
4. Initial value problem for ordinary Differentialequation
Single step methods –Taylor series , Euler and modified Eular , Runga –kutta method of
order four first and second order differential equation. Multistep methods –Milne and Adam’s
Bash forth predictor and correctormethods.
5. Boundary value problems for ordinary and Partial DifferentialEquation
Finite difference solution for the 2nd order ordinary differential equation . Finite difference
solution for one dimensional heat equation (both implicit and explicit) one dimensional wave
equation and two dimensional Laplace and Poisson’s equation.
Text Books
1. Sastry S.s; “Introductory Methods of Numericals Analysis” 3/e, Prentice Hall of India
New Delhi1998
References
1. Kanda samy ; P. Thilakavthy , K. and Gunavathy . K, “Numerical Methods “, S.Chand&
co. new Delhi1999.
2. Grewal B.S , Grewal J.S , “Numerical methods in Engineering and science “. Khanna
publisher , NewDelhi
3. Jain M.K. Iyenger S.R K and Jain R. K. , “Numerical methods for Engineering and
Scientific computation ,” 3/e , New Age International (P) Ltd; New Delhi ,1995.
4. General C.F; Wheatley P.O.,”Applied Numerical Analysis “5/e ,Adittion –Wesley ,
Singapore ,1998.
5. Narayanan S, Manickavachakam Pillai K. and Ramananiah G. “Advanced Mathematics
for Engineering Students Vol2 ,” S. Viswanathanan Pvt. Ltd. Chennai,1993.

--- Page 9 ---
UPE04B08: Plant Layout & Material Handling
Introduction: Objectives and criteria for facilities planning and industrial plant design. Site
selection Factors of plant layout, Types of production activities, job shop, batch and mass
production. Similar products special products, Fixed, process, and product type layout and
their combinations.
Layout planning: Factors influencing plant layout, design considerations steps in planning.
safety requirements.
Quantitative evaluation plant layout: Application of assignment models, queuing theory,
transportation problems, engineering economy, cross-chart technique to plant layout
problems.
Material Handling: Organization for material handling relation to plant layout, factors
affecting material handling. Material handling analysis: Selection and replacement of
material handling equipments, analysis of handling problems, application of quantitative
tools.
Handling systems: Transportation elevating conveying transferring, self loading and bulk
handling equipments, their selection and characteristics, auxiliary equipments, safety in
operation.
References:
1. Plant layout and material handling by AppleRonald.
2. Practical plant layout by Muther MC GrawHill.

--- Page 10 ---
UPE04B09: Measurement and Instrumentation
Basic Concepts: Definition of terms, calibration, standards, generalized measurement
systems, static and dynamic performance characteristics ; analysis of experimentaldata
;Instrumentation for measurement of position and displacement, force, pressure ,velocity ,
temperature, proximity and range. Concept of feedback; Open and Closed loop control
system, Transducers and devices and devices for engineering application and processing.
Metrology: standards, slip gauges, Measurement of angles, tapers, threads, coordinates,
inspection of straightness, flatness, alignment and surface finish, Gear measurements,
measurements of various product feature using Mechanical, Pneumatic, Optical and
Electronic instruments, interferometry and use of opticalflats.
References:
1. Experimental Methods for engineers by J. Holman, 6th Ed, Mc GrawHill.
2. Mechanical Measurement by T.G.Backwith, N.L. Buck and R.d.Maragoni, 3rd.ed, Narosa
publishinghouse.
3. Measurement systems- application and design by E.O. Doeblin,4th.ed; MCGrawhill
4. Instrumentation, measurement & analysis by B.C. Nakra& K.K. Chaudhury,TMH.
5. Metrology for Engineers by J.W.F., Gallies and C.R. Shotbolt,Cassel.
6. Metrology by R.K.Jain

--- Page 11 ---
UPE04B10: Mechanics of Machines
1. Machinestructure
Kinematic links, pairs and chain-constrain motion- Slider cranks and cranks rocker
mechanisms –inversion –application –Kinematics analysis and synthesis of simple
mechanisms-Determination of velocity and acceleration in Degree of freedom –Grueblers
criteria.
2. Friction
Friction in screw and nut –Pivot and collar –Thrust bearing –plate and disc clutches-Bell (Flat
and V) and rope drives –Ratio of tension –Effect of centrifugal and initial Tension –condition
for Maximum power transmission- open and Cross bell Drive –Jockey pulley- creep in Belts
3. Gearing andCAMS
Gear profile and geometry-Nomenclature of spur and helical gears –Low of Gearing –
Interference –Requirement of minimum Number of teeth in gear -Gears trains –Simple and
compound gears trains- Determination of Speed and torque in Epicyclical gear trains – cam
profile- Different type of followers
4. Balancing
Static and Dynamic balancing –single and several masses in different planes – Primary and
secondary balancing of reciprocation masses- single and multi cylinder engine-Inline V and
W arrangements ofengine.
5. Governor:
Introduction, Types of Governors, Centrifugal Governors, Terms used in Governors,
Watt Governor, Porter Governor, Proell Governor, Hartnell Governor, Hartung Governor,
Wilson-Hartnell Governor, Pickering Governor, Sensitiveness of Governors, Stability of
Governors, Isochronous Governor, Hunting, Effort & power of Governors, Controlling force
diagram, Coefficient of insensitiveness.
6. Vibration
Free, forced and damped vibration of single degree of freedom systems-Force transmitted to
support – vibration isolation – vibration absorption-Torsional Vibration of shaft-Single and
multi rotor system- Geared shafts- Critical speed of shafts.
Text Book
1.Ballancy.P.L., “Theory of machine” Khana publisher New Delhi 1998.
2.Sings,V.P, “Theory of machine”, Khana publisher New Delhi 1998.
References
1. Rao , J.S., and Dukkipati ;R.V., ‘’Mechanism of Machine Theory’’, Second Edition ,
Wiley Eastern Ltd.,1992.
2. Malhotra, D.R. and Gupta, H.C,” The Theory of Machine Satya Prakashan, Tech India
publication,1988.
3. Ghosh, A. and Mallick, A.K,” Theory of Machines and Mechanism,” Affiliated East West
Press,1989.
4. Shingley, J.E and Uicker (K),J.J., “Theory of Machines and Mechanisms,” McGraw Hill,
1980.
5. Burton Paul, “Kinematic and Dynamic of Planer Machinery,’’ PrenticeHall.1979

--- Page 12 ---
UPE04B11: Engineering Materials
Nature and properties of materials : crystal structures and lattices, crystal imperfection , slip
and dislocations , plastic deformation , phase diagrams, solidification and structure of
materials and alloys , Iron- carbon diagram, various types of bonds, mechanical, magnetic
and electronic properties, binary phase equilibrium characteristics of alloy, ternary phase
diagram.
Metallography : study of microstructures. Powder metallurgy. Heat treatment processes –
general classifications, various heat treatment of steels, properties and applications of alloy
steels, tool steels, stainless steels, 7 cast iron, different heat treatment furnaces.
Hot and cold working of metals, recovery, recrystallization and grain growth. Fracture,
fatigue and creep phenomenon in metallic materials Non ferrous materials—copper and
aluminium basedalloys.
Mechanical, magnetic, electrical and electronics properties of metals, alloys, ceramics,
semiconductors and composites.
References:
1. Marerial science and engineering by V. Raghavan, prenticeHall.
2. Introduction to Engineering Metarialsby B.K. Agarwal,TMH.
3. Mechanical Metallurgy by G.E. Dieter, Mc GrawHill.
4. Physical Metallurgy principles by R.E. Reedhill, East- Westpublishers.
5. Principles of metarials science by W.F. Smith, 3rd ed. , Mc GrawHill.
6. Steel and its Heat Treatement by K.E. Theling, Butterworth.
7. Material science by J.C. Anderson, K.D. Leaver, R.D. Rawlings and J.M. Alexander ,
Chapman Hall, 4th Ed., 1992.

--- Page 13 ---
UPE04P15: Thermal power Engineering Laboratory
1.a. Study of cut off models – Lancashire boiler, Babcock and Wilcox boiler, Vertical Tube
boiler, Cochran Boiler, Locomotive Boiler.
b. study of cut off models – four stroke diesel engines, four stroke petrol engines, two stroke
petrol engine.
2. load test on four stroke petrol and diesel engine by electric loadbox.
3. Load test on four stroke diesel engine by rope brakedynamometer.
4. Heat balance on four stroke diesel engine by rope brake dynamometer and electric load
box.
5. Valve timing diagram on four stroke diesel engine model and four stroke petrol engine
model.
6. Measurement of the quality of steam, enthalpy, and drynessfraction.
7. To find out the boiler performance, boiler efficiency and steam evaporationrate.
8. To visit a thermal power station and study thefollowing:
1. Boiler, 2. Steampipe, 3. SteamTurbine, 4. Economizer, 5.Preheater, 6. Alternator, 7. Water
treatmentplant, 8. ESP
UPE04P16: Mechanics of Machines Laboratory
List of Experiments
1. Single degree of freedom vibratorysystem.
2. Static & Dynamic balancing of rotatingmasses.
3. Governors.
4. Gyroscope.
5. Cam Design andAnalysis.
UPE04P17: Measurements and Instrumentation Laboratory
Lab experiments involving :
Measurements of position, displacement, velocity, force, temperature, proximity/range.
Measurements of various product features using mechanical, pneumatic, optical and
electronic instruments, interferometer, surface roughness measurements, measurements of
threads and gears. Laboratory experiments and exercises involving hardware and software
modular based off-line and on-line product gauging and inspection, information recording
and processingetc.
1. Estimation of accuracy of instruments -vernier andmicrometer.
2. Calibration of dial gauge, micrometer andvernier.
3. Measurement of angels using sine bar, bevel protractors, spiritlevel.
4. Measurement of gear tooth thickness by various methods including profileprojector.
5. Measurement of effective diameter, pitch and helix angle of screwthreads.
6. Surface roughness measurement .
7. Measurement of run out andconcentricity.
8. Measurement of internal and external angles, bores, concavity, convexity using standard
balls, rollers, height gauge and depthmicrometer.
9. Measurement using visionsystem.
10. Study of co-ordinate measuringmachine.
11. study of digital measuringinstruments.
12. Measurement of Straightness andFlatness.

--- Page 14 ---
5th Semester:
UPE05B13: Machining principles and Technology
1. ToolNomenclature
Single Point tool- Signification of the various angle provided and nose radius- American,
German CIRP and orthogonal system of tool nomenclature, conversion of rage angle from
American to German and Vice- Versa, Nomenclature of drills, Milling cutters and broaches,
Need for chip barker.
2. Machine of MetalCutting
Mechanism of Formation of chips-types of chips and the condition conducive for the
formation of each type-built-up edge, its effects, orthogonal Vs oblique cutting, Merchant’s
circle diagram-Force and velocity relationship, shear plane angle, Energy consideration in
matching-Ernst Merchants theory of shear angle relationship-Original assumption and
modification made.
3. Forces in Machining
Forces in turning, drilling, milling and grinding, Conventional Vs climb milling- mean and
maximum cross sectional areas of chips in milling- Specific cutting pressure- specification
horse power- requirement of tools dynamometer- construction and principle of operation of
tools dynamometer for turning, drilling and milling,
4. Thermal Aspect inMachining
Sources of heat generation in machining- temperature in measurement technique in
machining, Function of cutting fluid- Characteristic of cutting of fluid.
5. Tool Materials , Tools Wear and toollife
Requirement of tool materials- advances in tool materials-HSS,PM, HSS, coated HSS,
carbides and coated carbides, ceramic, cold pressed, hot pressed, ceramic composites,
CBN, Diamond properties, advantages and limitation- ISO specification for inserts and tools
holders, Tool Wear, type, mechanism, tool life, machinability, and economics of machining,
charter in machining.
6. MachiningPrincipal
Setting and machining operation on metal cutting machine- Lathe, Milling, shaping, slotting,
planning, Drilling, Boring, Broaching, Grinding (cylindrical, surface, center less), Thread
rolling and gear cutting machining.
7. Tooling: Jigs and Fixtures, Principals of location andclamping,
8. BatchProduction
Machining on capstans and Turret lathe.
9. Massproduction
Machining on single/ multi spindle automats.
10. Finishing
Micro finishing operations like honing lapping, super finishing.

--- Page 15 ---
UPE05B14: Design of Machine Elements
1. Product Development Concepts
Fundamentals of Machine Design - - Selection of materials --- Factor of safety--- Code and
standards--- economic of Design --- Reliability--- safety and product liability – Product
Development – Stages --- Sequential and concurrent engineering.
2. Static and Variable Stress Analysis
Static Strength --- Failure theories --- Stress Concentration – Fatigue strength—S-N Diagram
– Lowcycle—High cycle fatigue--- Endurance limit—modifying factors--- Fluctuating
stresses – Stresses due to combined loading.
3. Design of MechanicalElements
Shafts—Design for static loads – Bending, torsion and axial loads—Reversed bending and
steady torsion—Soderberg and Goodman approach—Design of couplings --- Muff flange,
bushed pin types – Design of closely coiled helical springs.
4. Design of Transmission Elements
Design of Gears – Spur, helical, bevel and worm gears—Belt drives – Flat belts and V belts
selection and specification – design of journal bearings – Selection and specification ---
Design of journal bearings—Selection and specification of rolling contact Bearings.
5. Recent Advances
Synthesis design of multistage speed reducers—Design of typical special purposes machine –
Design of Geneva Mechanism-- ratchet and pawl mechanism--- Soft ware Implementation in
design--- CAD—product Modeling Concept.
Text Book
1. Joseph Edward Shigley, “Mechanical Engineering design,” McGrawHill.
References
2. Spotts M.F. “Design of Machine Elements”, 7/e, 1997, PrenticeHall.
3. Robert L. Norton, “Machine Design” – an integrated approach”, 1997, PrenticeHall.
4. Wilson, “Computer Integrated Machine Design”, 1996, PrenticeHall.
5. Joseph. E. Shigley, “Standard Hand Book of Machine Design,” McGraw Hill, 1996.
“Burr A.H and Cheathak. J.B.”Mechanical Analysis and Design,” 2/e, PrenticeHall.

--- Page 16 ---
UPE05B15: Ergonomics and Work System Design
Defining Human Factors in a Production system; Characteristics feature of man-machine
system; human performance and reliability; Human sensory-motor system; Stimulus
dimension, Human information processing; Noise and theory of signal detection (TDS);
Quantitative and qualitative visual display; Human factors associated with speech
communication; Introduction to biomechanics and bioengineering aspects of human motor
activity; Performance of body members in making different types of movements; Energy
expenditure in physical activities; Spatial movements and conceptual relationships of stimuli
and responses; Continuous control systems; Types of control function, tools and related
control devices.
Design of work place and work components; Applied anthropometry, activity analysis;
Design of work place; Human Performance under heat, cold, Illumination, Vibration, Noise,
Pollution, Static and dynamicconditions.
Application of results from human factors data and analysis in work study; work design;
Method study and work measurement Techniques.
Reference:
1. Sanders M.S and McCormick, “Human Factors Engineering”, Tata McGrawHill.
2. Salvendy G, “Hand book of Human Factors and Ergonomics”, John Wiley &Sons.
3. Kroemer KHE, “Ergonomics – How to Design for case and efficiency”, Prentice Hall
EnglewoodCliffs.
4. Indian Adaptation – introduction to work study. ILO, Geneva, Oxford &IBH Pub. Co.
Pvt.Ltd.
5. Murrell, “Ergonomics atwork”.

--- Page 17 ---
UPE05XXX: Production Planning and Control
1. Introduction: introduction to material management and productivity, functions of
material management, organization structures in material management, role ofmaterial
management techniques in improved materialproductivity.
2. Material planning: objectives, material requirement planning, manufacturing resource
planning, JIT production planning, strategic material planning, material control:
acceptance, sampling, inspection, make or buy decision, simple cost analysis, economic
analysis, break even analysis, breakeven point theory, whether to add or drop a product
line store management and warehousing, productexplosion.
3. Purchasing: importance of good purchasing system, organization of purchasing
functions, purchase policy and procedures, responsibility and limitations, purchasing
decisions, purchasing role in new product development, role of purchasing in cost
reduction, negotiations and purchase, purchasing research: identification of right sources
of supply, vendor rating, standardization, vendor certification plans, vendor and supply
reliability, developing new source ofsupply.
4. Cost reduction: cost control v/s cost reduction, price analysis, material costreduction
techniques, andanalysis.
5. Inventory management: inventory v/s stores, types of inventory, inventory control,
inventory build –up, EOQ, various inventory models, inventory models with quantity
discount, exchange curve concept, coverage analysis, optimal stocking and issuing
policies, inventory management of perishable commodities, ABC – VED analysis, design
of inventory distribution systems, surplus management, information system for inventory
management, casestudies.
6. Demand forecasting: Long and short term demand forecasting methods, Regression analysis
and Smoothing methods. Estimation of trend, cycle, seasonality components. Analysis of
forecast error and computer control of forecasting systems. Plant location, capacity
scheduling, Warehouse location and capacity scheduling; Multiple Plant Production Facility
Design. Aggregate Planning and Master ProductionPlanning and Scheduling; Operations
scheduling and Control: Basic Sequencing and scheduling techniques, Despatching rules;
Chasing and updating of Production Schedules. Design of Production Planning and Control
Systems: System Design for continuous and intermittent Production Systems; Integration of
Master Production, Material Requirement and Shop Scheduling Systems. Diagonistic
Analysis of Production Planning and Control Systems: Techniques of analysis and
evaluation of systemperformance.
Reference books:
1. Material management :- W. R. Stelzer Jr.(PHI)
2. Material management :- D. S. Ammer& Richard ErwinInc.
3. Menon, K.S., “Purchasing and Inventory Control”, Wheeler Publication, NewDelhi
4. Dobler and Lee, “Purchasing and Material Management”, Tata McGraw Hill, New
Delhi
5. Stevenson, J. William, Operations Management 7th Edition, McGraw-Hill Irwin,2002.
6. Plossl, G.W. Production and Inventory Control: Principles and Techniques,
Englewood Cliffs, NJ, Prentice-Hall, Inc.,1985.
7. Monks, Joseph G., Operations Management, Theory and Problems, New York, NY,
McGraw-Hill,1987.
8. Production Systems Planning Analysis & Control by James L. Riggs, John Wiley &Sons
9. Modern Production / Operations Management by Elwood S. Buffa, Rakesh K. Sarin,
John Wiley &Sons
10. Production / Operations Management : Concept, Structure & Analysis by Tersine R.J.,
NorthHolland
11. Operations Management, by Jay Heizer and Barry Render. Prentice Hall, 9th Edition.

--- Page 18 ---
UPE05B17: Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing
Fundamentals of Design, Computers and controllers, Fundamentals of CAD, computer
systems, use of computers in CAD/CAM system, CAD system Hardware, CAD system
software, principles of interactive computer graphics, Transformation systems, wire frame
modeling, surface modeling, Solid modeling, Finite Element Modeling and analysis.
Numerical control in production systems, computer control of NC machines, NC part
programming and computer aided part programming, Group technology, computer aided
process planning, computer aided inspection and Quality control, Machine vision, computer
integrated production planning systems, Industrial Robots and automated Guided Vehicle
systems, Flexible Manufacturing systems, Computer Integrated Manufacturing, Artificial
Intelligence and Expert system, communication system in Manufacturing.
Text Book
1. Lalit Narayan. K. MallikarjunaRao.K, Sarcar M.M.M, “Computer Aided Design and
Manufacturing”, Prentice Hall of India (P) Ltd, 2008.
References
1. Radhakrishnan.P and Subramanyam, S, “ CAD, CAM, CIM” , New Age International
Publishers.
2. G. Rankey, Paul, “ Computer Integrated Manufacturing” , PrenticeHall.
3. J.Jr. Harrington, “ Computer Integrated Manufacturing “ Industrial Press Inc, NewYork.
4. Rathmill. K and Macconal. P, “ Computer Integrated Manufacturing”. IFSpublications.
5. Deb, S.R, “ Robotics Technology and Flexible Automation” , Tata McGrawHill.

--- Page 19 ---
UPE05P19: Machining Principles and Technology Laboratory
List of Experiment in Metal Cutting
1. Study of influence of cutting parameters on surface roughness inturning
2. Tool life study on a single point turningtool.
3. Measurement of cutting forces in turning using lathe tooldynamometer.
4. Measurement of shear plane angle using chip- thickness ratiocriteria.
5. Acceptance test on RAM type milling machine as per ISI testchart.
6. Measurement of single point to angle.
UPE05P20: CAD/CAM Laboratory
1. Two Dimensional Geometry creation and modification using standard draftingpackage.
2. Detailing and documentation of a typical productiondrawing.
3. Attributes and Data extraction from a drawing.
4. Creation of simple solid models using CSG and B-Repapproach.
5. Surface ModelingTypes.
6. Interfering a programming language with a typical draftingpackage.
7. Interfering database package with typical draftingpackage.
8. Object Modeling and Mesh generation using simpleelements.
9. Analysis of typical machineelements.
10. Kinematic analysis of simplemechanisms.
11. Software project consisting of development of algorithms and programs in the field of
manufacturingapplications.
UPE05P21: Ergonomic and Works system Design laboratory
List of Experiment
1. Work study
2. Workmeasurement
3. Anthropometry
4. Kinesiology
5. ComfortAnalysis
6. Fatigue Bio Engineering
UPE05P22: Design Practice
Exercises on 2-D and 3- D Modelling of Mechanical components and assembly system using
software packages like AUTOCAD, CATIA etc.
Design Project
1. Jigs and Fixturedesign
2. Diedesign
3. Automation using hydraulic, Pneumatic, electrical, Electronic and Mechanicaldevices.
Text Book: Junija B.L and Sekhon, G.S. “Fundamentals of Metal cutting and Machine
tools,” New Age International (P) Ltd.1995.
References:
1. Shaw M.C., “Metal Cutting Principles”, Oxford Clare dons Press,1984.
2. Bhattacharya a. “Metal Cutting theory and practice”, New Central Book Agency (P) Ltd.
Calcutta, 1984.

--- Page 20 ---
6th Semester
UPE06B18: Manufacturing Process II
1. Theory of Metal Forming
Metallurgical aspect of metal forming- Slip –twining-Mechanics of plastic deformation-
Effect of temperature, strain rate –microstructure and friction in metal forming-yield criteria
and their significance-classification of metal forming processes.
2. Forging and Rollingprocess
Principal-Classification-equipment, tooling-processes, parameters and calculation of force
during forging and rolling process-Ring compression tests-Post forming heat treatment-
Defect (cause and remedy)-application
3. Extrusion and Drawing Process
Classification of extrusion process –tool, equipment principal of this process –influence of
friction –Extrusion forces calculation –Defects and analysis –Rod /Wire drawing –tools,
Equipment and principal of process –defects –Tube drawing and sinking processes –
Mannesmann processes of seamless pipe manufacturing ,
4. Sheet Metal Forming Processes
Classification –Conventional and HERF processes –Presses –Type and selection of presses –
formability of sheet metal –principal, Process, parameters, equipments and application of the
following process –
Deep Drawing, spinning, stretch forming, plate banding, press brake forming –Explosive
forming, electro hydraulic forming, magnetic pulse forming
5. ReccentAdvances
Super plastic forming –electroforming –fine balancing, P/M forging –Isothermal forging –
High Speed, hot forging –high velocity extrusion
Text books
1. Narayanasamy, R., “Metal working Technology”, Prentice Hall (1997).
References
1. Dieter, “Mechanical Metallurgy”, Revised Edition, 1992.
3. George E,”Dieter –Engineering Design (A Materials and processing Approach)” McGraw
Hill-Edition II- University ofMaryland-1991
4. SEROPE KALPAKJJAN, “Manufacturing Engineering and Technology,” Edition –III –
addision—Wesley Publishingco.1985,
5. William F.Hosford and Robert M, Caddlel , “Metal forming ,” (Mechanics andMetallurgy
), Prentice Hall Publishing co, 1990.
6. Sinha and Prasad, “Theory of metal forming and metal cutting ,” Dhanpat Rai
Pub,(P)Ltd,.1999
7. Rao P.N,” Manufacturing Technology,” TMH Ltd 1998(ReviseEdition).

--- Page 21 ---
UPE06B19: Machine Tool System
Principles of generations of various surfaces in machine tools; Conformable Kinematic
Synthesis for tracing , Forming, Enveloping and Generation; Kinematic Structure of Gear and
step less Drive for machines ; Designing Discrete step Drives for Machine Tools speed and
feed ; Step less Drive ; Design Principles of Machines Tool Gear Boxes ; hydraulic and
Electric drives and control; Machine tool structures; Principles of design of Machine tool
elements like bearings spindles and slides; Automation and control features of Machine tools;
special tools and attachment. Elements of unit build machines and Transfer lines; Selection
and acceptance testing of Machine tools.
References:-
1. Principles of Machine tools by A. Bhattacharya and G.C. Sen., Central Book Agency,
Kolkata.
2. Machine Tools vol.-I, II, III, IV BY Acharkan, Mirpublishers.

--- Page 22 ---
UPE06B20: Operations Research
1. LinearModels
The phases of Operations research study- linear programming – Graphical methods –
Simplex algorithm—Duality – Transportation Problems – Assignment problems---
Applications to problems with discretevariables.
2. NetworkModels
NetworkModels---shortestroute---Minimalspanningtree---Maximumflowmodels----
Project network---- CPM and PERT networks--- Critical path scheduling ------ Sequencing
models.
3. InventoryModels
Inventory models----Economic order quality models---- Quantity discountmodels---
Stochastic Inventorymodels ----- Inventory control models inpractice.
Queuing Theory
Queuing models--- Queuing system and structures ---Notation---Parameter ------ SingleServer
and multi--- Notation --- Parameter --- Single Server and multiserver models --- Poisson input
--- Exponential service --- Component rate service ---Infinitepopulation ------ Simulation.
4. DecisionModels
DecisionModels---GameTheory---TwopersonZerosumGame---Graphicalsolution---
Algebraicsolution---Linearprogrammingsolution–ReplacementModels ----------- Modelsbased
onservicelife---Economiclife---Singleormultivariablesearchtechniques ------------- Application
orModels ----- Casestudies
Text Books
1. H.A.Taha “Operation Research” Prentice Hall of India 1999 6thEdition
2. S.Bhaskar “Operation Research” Anuradha Publishers Tamil Nadu1999
References
1. Shennoy, Srivastava “Operation Research for Management” Willy Eastern-1994.
2. N.J.Bazara, Jarvis, H. Sherali“ A linear programming and Network Flows” , Joha Wiley
1990.
3. Philip and Ravindran “Operational Research “ ,Joha Wiley ,1992.
4. Hiller and Lieberman “Operation Research “ Holden Day1986.
5. Frank, S. Budnick, Dennis Mcleavy :Principals of Operation Research for Management”
Richad D Irwin -1990.
6. Sharma J.K. “Operation Research’ ,Macmillan

--- Page 23 ---
UPE06XXX: Automation, CNC and Robotics
Basic principles of automation; Extending the capabilities of conventional machines through
improved devices and manipulators; Basic principles and constructure of numerical control;
CNC, DNC and machining centre; Methods of coding and programming; APT programming;
Adaptive control; Economics of numerical control.
Introduction to Robotics: Synthesis of elements with movability constraints; Elements of
robot anatomy; Hydraulic, pneumatic and electric manipulators; End-effectors and their
design; controllers with microprocessors or fluidics; Robot sensors; Applications of industrial
robotics.
Reference:
1.Craig J. J., “Introduction to Robotics”, Addison – Wesley.
2.Koren Y. “Robotics for Engineers”, McGraw Hill.
3.Del S. R.,”Robotics Technology and Flexible Automation”, Tata McGraw Hill.
4.Tewari N K., Kundra and Rao P. N., “CNC Machine”.

--- Page 24 ---
UPE06B22: ELECTIVE I
List of Electives
1. Optoelectronics and laser materials processing
Basic laser optics; Laser: electromagnetic radiation, reflection, refraction, laser beam
characteristics, focusing with a single lens, optical components. Types of laser –CO2 laser, co
laser, solid state, diode, excimer lasers, application of laser, laser cutting, laser welding, laser
treatment. Theory of heat flow, laser automation and in-process sensing, laser safety.
Theory of heat flow, laser automation and in-process sensing, laser safety.
References
1.A text book on light by K.G Majumdar, Modern book agency private Ltd.
2.A text book on optics by Subramanyan and Brijlal.S.Chand&Company ltd.
3.Laser material processing by William M.Steen, Springer –Verlag.
2. Management Information System(MIS)
Data Information and knowledge concepts, concepts of information representation: storage,
dissemination, discrimination and transmission
Data base management system, design and implementation of RDBMS for managerial
applications, retrieval aspects, security and privacy aspects.
Specification and configurations of computer based systems, manufacturing management
information systems-its subsystems and outputs; Costing and performance audit applications
MIS
References
1. Management information systems, organization and technology by London and London
4th ED, PreticeHall
2. Management information systems by JamesObien
3. Total QualityManagement
1. Introduction: definastion of quality, dimensions of quality, quality planning, quality
costs – analusis techniques for quality costs, basic concepts of total quality management,
historiacl review, principles of TQM, leadership – concepts, role of senior management,
quality council, quality statements, strategic planning, deming philosophy, barriers to TQM
implementation.
2. TQM Principles: Customer satisfaction – customer perception of quality, customer
complaints, service quality, customer retention, employee involvement – motivaiton,
empowerment, teams, recognition and reward, performance appraisal, benefits, continuous
process improvement – juran trilogy PDSA cycle, 5s, kaizen, supplier partnership –
partnering, sourcing, supplier selection, supplier rating, relationship development,
performance measures – basic concepts, strategy, performancemeasure.

--- Page 25 ---
3. Statistical process control (SPC): The seven tools of quality, statistical fundamentals –
measures of central tendency and dispersion, population nad sample, normal curve, control
charts for variables and attributes, process capability, concepts of six sigma, new seven
managementtools.
4. TQM Tools:-Bench marking – reasons to benchmarking, benchmarking process, quality
function deployment (QFD) – house of quality, QFD process, benefits, taguchi quality loss
function, total productive maintenance (TPM) – concepts, improvement needs, FMEA –
stages ofFMEA.
5. Quality systems:-Need for ISO 900 and other quality systems, ISO 9000: 2000 quality
system – elements, implementation of quality system, documentation, quality auditing, QS
9000, ISO 14000 – concept, requirements andbenefits.
Text Book:
1. Dale H. Besterfield,et al., Total Quality Management, Pearson Education Asia,
1999.(Indian reprint 2002).
Reference:
1. James R.Evans& William M. Lidsay, The Management and Control of Quality (5th
Edition), South-Western (Thomson Learning), 2002 (ISBNO-324-06680-5).
2. Feigenbaum. A.V. “Total Quality Management”, McGraw Hill,1991.
3. Oakland .J.S. “Total Quality Management”, Butterworth-Hcinemann Ltd.,Oxford,1989.
4. Narayana V. and Sreenivasan, N.S. “Quality Management – Concepts and Tasks”, New
Age International1996.
5. Zeiri, “Total Quality Management for Engineers” Wood head Publishers,1991.
6. Arora. K.C., “Total QualityManagement”,
7. Paul James, “Total Quality Management – An Introductory Text”, PrenticeHall.
8. Housen&Ghose, “Quality control andApplications”.
9. Khanna, O.P., “Industrial engineeringManagement.”
4. Fluid Machinery
1. Dynamics of FluidFlow
Introduction, Impulse Momentum Principle, Forces Exerted on Pressure Conduits, Force
Exerted on a Stationary Vane or Blade. Absolute and Relative Velocity Relations, Force on a
Moving Vane or Blade, Torque on Rotating Wheel, Forces Exerted by the Jet on a stationary
vertical, Inclined Flat plate ,Curve plates, moving plates, hinged plates
2. HydraulicTurbines
Introduction, Hydraulic Power Plant, Classification of Turbines, Similitude and Model
Testing, Model and Prototype, Unit Quantities, Turbine Efficiencies, Euler Turbine Equation,
Components of Power Produced Pelton Turbine, Power Development, Torque and Power and
Efficiency Variation with Speed Ratio, Reaction Turbines , Francis Turbines, Axial Flow
Turbines, Cavitation in Hydraulic Machines, Governing of Hydraulic Turbines
3. Rotodynamic Pumps
Introduction, Centrifugal Pumps , Impeller, Classification, Pressure Developed by the
Impeller , Manometric Head, Energy Transfer by Impeller, Slip and Slip Factor, Losses in
Centrifugal Pumps, Effect of Outlet Blade Angle Pump Characteristics, Operation of Pumps
in Series and Parallel, Specific Speed and Significance, Cavitation , Axial Flow Pump ,
Power Transmitting Systems , Fluid Coupling, TorqueConverter
4. ReciprocatingPumps
Introduction, Comparison, Description and Working, Flow Rate and Power ,Slip ,Indicator
Diagram , Acceleration Head , Minimum Speed of Rotation of Crank, Friction Head , Air

--- Page 26 ---
Vessels, Flow into and out of Air Vessel, Rotary Positive Displacement Pumps , Gear Pump,
Lobe Pump , Vane Pump.
Reference Books:
1. Fluid Machinery by TerryWright
2. Fluid Mechanics by Joseph H. Spurk and NuriAksel
3. Fluid Mechanics by Frank M.White
4. Jain, A.K., “Fluid Mechanics” KhannaPublishers.
5. Rajput, R.K., “Fluid mechanics & Hydraulicmachines
UPE06P23: MANUFACTURING PROCESS-II LAB
Pneumatic Hamer, hydraulic Hamer, Sheet Metal Forming, Compaction through powder metallurgy
route.
UPE06P24: MACHINE TOOL SYSTEM LABORATORY
Study of speed structure (Ray Diagram) of lathes, determination of apron constant,
measurement of cutting forces and tool wear experiments are also to be done tostudy
principles of metal cutting; Alignment tests of drilling machines, quick return motion
mechanism on shaper are to be undertaken; Laboratory exercises involving machining of
complex product configurations, machining of spur and helical gears, copying and
contouring, finishing processes and grinding of tools and cutters are to bedone.
UPE06XXX: Automation and Condition Monitoring Laboratory
List of Experiments
1.A study of different control system and I,S and FANUC codes,
2. CNC Miller-Programming Exercise involving linear polation, circular interpolation and
repeatcycle.
3. CNC Miller -Programming Exercise involving mirror image, tools seating, job setting and
editing oftools.
4. CNC Miller -Programming Exercise involving cannedcycles.
5. CNC –Lathe programming exercise for a simple component involving linear and circular –
interpolation.
6. CNC- Lathe Programing Making use of subroutine and Do Loop.
7.CNC – Lathe Programming on hmt lathe in sinumeric system,
8.CNC programming on a retrofiltedlathe.
9. CAM Software in CNC tutor, MasterCAM,
10. Gegenerative machining in IDEAS,
11. Study of the geometry of the Robot Manipulations, grippers and exercises on Robot
programming
12. Ferrography and condition monitoring by OilAnalysis.
13. Bearing Health Analysis to optimize its lifespan.
14. Alignment and Balancing Test Rigs to provide Exposure to latest Alignment and
BalancingTechniques.
15. Wear Particle Analysis for Quantitative and Qualitativestudy.
16. Lubricant contamination Analysis for Quantitative and Qualitativestudy.
The following equipments can be monitored–
i) Compressor, ii) Engine, iii) Exhauster, iv) Fan, v) Gear Box, vi) Generator, vii) Hydraulic,
viii) Motor, ix) Paper Machine, x) Pump, xi) Turbine.
17. Vibration conditionMonitoring.

--- Page 27 ---
UPE06P26: Seminar on Assigned Topics
Each student will be required to give a seminar take along with a report on any current topic
with audio visual aids, graphs, charts, and models as assigned to them on individual basis.

--- Page 28 ---
7th Semester
UPE07B23: Reliability Engineering and Plant Maintenance.
Reliability: Definition and basic concepts; Failure data, failure moods, and Reliability in
terms of hazard rate and failure density functions; Hazards models and bath tub curve;
applicability weibul distribution. Reliability calculations for series, parallel and parallel series
systems; Reliability calculations for maintained and stand bysystems.
Maintenance - - its rules and scope in total organizational context. Objectives and
characteristics of maintenance; basic guidelines for design of organization structures for
maintenance; Centralized Vs de centralized maintenance ; Types of maintenance – corrective
planned, preventive and predictive maintenance; Factors affecting maintenance; opportunistic
maintenance; measurement of maintenance work; rating and allowances. Maintenance cost
budgets. Maintenance planning and scheduling;
Noise and Vibration technology, Infra – Thermography, Laser alignment and in situ
balancing, Ultrasonics, Acoustic Emissions, High end Corrosion Mapping System, Lube and
Wear Analysis, Residual Life Assessment, Oil Analysis and indigenization
References
1. Carter, ADS, “Mechanical Reliability Engineering”,Macmillan.
2. Belington Roy & Allen R.N, “Reliability Evaluations of Engineering Systems”
Pitman.
3. Dhilan& Singh, “Introduction to ReliabilityEngineering’.
4. Doty, L.A, “Reliabilities for the Technologies”, Industrial PressInc.
5. Basu S.K &Bhadury B, “ Terrotechnology – Reliability Engineering and
MaintenanceManagement”.

--- Page 29 ---
UPE07B24: Non-Traditional Manufacturing
Introduction to new methods of production; Need and capability analysis of various
processes; Classification and selection of non-traditional machining technologies. Abrasive
processes of machining including Abrasive Jet machining (AJM), Water Jet Mechining
(WJM) and ultrasonic machining (USM). Chemical machining (CHM), Electrochemical
machining (ECM): Electrochemical deburring and honing: Electrochemical Grinding (ECG);
Electrochemical Arc Machining (ECAM). Electrical discharge machining (EDM); wire
EDM, Electrochemical Discharge Machining (ECDM); Electron beam machining (EBM);
Plasma arc machining (PAM); Laser beam machining (LBM); Ion beam machining (IBM),
Netural particle etching. Cryogenic machining; Hot machining, stretched turning; Dynamic
cutting; Magnetic cutting; Oscillating turning; Ballistic machining. Selecting the most
suitable process for a product; Economic analysis of non-traditional machiningprocesses.
Text:
1. Misra P.K., “ Non Traditional Machining Process”, Narosa Publishing House.
Reference:
1. Gary F Benedict, Non traditionalmachining.
2. Kalpakjian, “Non Traditional Machining”, PrenticeHall.
3. Jain V.K., “Advanced Machining Process”, Allied Publishers(2005).
4. Pandey P.C., “Modern Machining Process”, TataMcgrawHill.

--- Page 30 ---
UPE07B25: Production and Quality Management
Management functions, Evolution of Management Theory, Management approach to
planning, Analysis and control function involved in a production system; Production cycles,
planning functions; types of industry: Job, Batch, Continuous, Mass and flow production ;
Organization and policies in respect of production planning and control; Product design and
development; Fore-casting techniques; Scheduling, Sequencing and plant loading for optimal
utilization; Queuing models and line balancing; Materials planning and control, Inventory
Management; Value analysis; productivity Analysis, Mechanics of production control.
Quality Management: Introduction, Meaning, Quality Characteristics of Goods and
Services, Juran‟s Quality Trilogy, Deming‟s 14 principles, Tools and Techniques for Quality
Improvement, Statistical Process Control Chart, Quality Assurance, Total Quality
Management (TQM) Model Concept of Six Sigma and itsApplication.
Acceptance Sampling – Meaning, Objectives, Single Sample, Double Sample and Multiple
Sample Plans with sated risk, Control charts for variables – Averages and Ranges, Control
Charts for Defectives – Fraction Defective and Numbers Defective.
References
1. Production and operational Management by S.N.Chary,TMH.
2. Essentials of Managementt by Koontz and Weihrich,TMH.
3. Modern Production/ Operational Management by E.S.Buffa and R.K.Sarin, John Wiley
and sons.
4. Krajewski&Ritzman, Operations Management, 5th PearsonEducation
5. Buffa & Sarin, Modern Production/Operations Management, 8th JohnWiley
6. Chary, Production and Operations Management, TataMcGraw-Hill
7. Johnston R et al – Cases in Operations Management,Pitman
8. McGregor D – Operations Management,McGraw-Hill

--- Page 31 ---
UPE07B26: Financial Management and Costing
1. Finance function and financialaccounting
The finance function – Indian financial system – financial planning – cost of capital –
operating and financial level rages – financial statements – income statement – balance sheet.
2. Capital budgeting and working capitalmanagement
Different techniques of capital budgeting and investmetn analysis – cocept of present value –
sources of long term finance – cash management – recievables management – sources of
short termfinance.
3. Inventorymanagement
Purpose of inventoreis – costs related to inventories – basic EOQ model – variation in EOQ
model – Finite production – stockout – quantity discounts – lots size under constraints – MRP
inventory accouting.
4. Cost estimation and costaccounting
Importance and aims of cost estimation and costing – determination of materials cost, labour
cost, cost of a product – overhead expenses – depreciatoin – methods – profit planninng –
anaysis – cost – volume relationship – breakeven analysis.
5. Recentadvances
Just in Time (JIT) system – MRP II – credit rating – leasing – Hire purchasing – venture
capital – SEBI.
Text Book
1. Prasannachandra, “ Financial management Theory and pactice”, Tata Mc Graw Hill, 1998.
References
1. James C. Vanhorne, John M Wachowilz, “Fundamentals of FinancialManagement”,
Prentice Hale of India,1996.
2. T R Banga and S C Sharma , “ Mechanical Estimating and costing “, Khanna Publishers,
1993.
3. Monks J G – “Operation management theory and practice”, McGraw Hill,1992.
4. I M Pandey, “Financial Management”,Vikas Publishing House,1995.

--- Page 32 ---
UPE07B27: Elective II
List of Electives
1. Enterprise Resource Planning
Enterprise Resource Planning: Basic issues, approach and database implementation, ERP
modules; Production planning, Sales and distribution, materials management, Plant
maintenance, Quality management, Project management, Financial and costing and human
concept of supply chain and its major components.
References
1. Enterprise Resource Planning by Ravisankar and S Jaiswal,Galgotia
2. Nanotechnology
1. General Introduction: Basics of Quantum Mechanics, Harmonic oscillator, magnetic
Phenomena, band structure in solids, Mossbauer and Spectroscopy, optical phenomena
bonding in solids,Anisotropy.
2. Silicon Carbide: Application of Silicon carbide, nano materials preparation, Sintering of
SiC, X-ray Diffraction data, electron microscopy sintering of nano particles,
Nano particles of Alumina and Zirconia: Nano materials preparation, Characterization, Wear
materials and nanocomposites.
3. Mechanical properties: Strength of nano crystalline SiC, Preparation for strength
measurements, Mechanical properties, Magneticproperties.
4. Electrical properties: Switching glasses with nanoparticles,Electronic conduction with
nano particles; Optical properties: Optical properties, special properties and the colored
glasses
5. Processofsynthesisofnanopowders,Electrodeposition,Importantnaonmaterials
6. Investigaing and manipulating materials in the nanoscale: Electron microscopics, scanning
probemicroscopics, optical microscopics for nano science and technology, X-ray diffraction.
7. Nanobiology : Interaction between bimolecules and naoparticle surface, Different types of
inorganic materials used for the synthesis of hybrid nano-bio assemblies, Application of nano
in biology, naoprobes for Analytical Applications-A new Methodology in medical
diagnostics and Biotechnology, Current status of nano Biotechnology, Future perspectives of
Nanobiology,Nanosensors.
8. Nano Medicines : Developing of Nano medicines Nano systems in use, Protocols for nano
drug Administration, Nanotechnology in Diagnostics applications, materials for used in
Diagnostics and Therapeutic applications, Molecular Nanomechanics, Molecular devices,
Nano tribology, studying tribology at nanoscale, Nano Tribology applications.
TEXTBOOKS:
1. Nano Materials- A.K.Bandyopadhyay/ New Age Publishers.
2. Nano Essentials- T.Pradeep/TMH
3. Non Conventional Energy
4. Rapid Prototyping
1. Introduction: Basic concept – Overview f existing technologies of prototyping andtooling
–Need for speedy design to market operations.
2. Product Development: State of the Technology – conceptual design – development –
Detail design – Prototype – Tooling –Engineering Pilot –Limitations.
3. Accelerated Product Development: Application of CAD-Techniques – Procedures –
Product slicing – software –Applications.
4. Rapid Prototyping Systems: Selective laser sintering – Working Principles – Advantages
and limitation – stereo lithography – working principle – Application advantages and
limitations.
5. Other systems: Laminated object modeling – Waving principles application – Advantages

--- Page 33 ---
and Limitations- fused deposition and modeling – direct shell production casting- application.
Text:
1. Ghosh Amitabha, “Rapid Prototyping-A Brief Introduction”, East-WestPublishers
References:
1. PAUL F. JACOBS , “Rapid Prototyping and Manufacture , Fundamentals of stereo
lithography“,1995
2. SOENEN,RandOILLING,“AdvancedCAD/CAMsystems“,NarosaPublishingHouse
,1995.
3. DURVENT , W.R, The lithographic Handbook, Narosa Publishinghouse,1995.
4. Rapid News, University of Warwick,U.K.1995.
UPE07P28: Non-Traditional Manufacturing Laboratory
One experiment on each machine
1. Abrasive Jet machining(AJM)
2. Ultrasonic machining(USM).
3. Electrochemical machining(ECM):
4. Electrical discharge machining(EDM);
5. WireEDM,
6. Electron beam machining(EBM)
7. Laser beam machining(LBM)
UPE07XXX: Mini Project
UPE07P30: Industrial Training
Students undergoing industrial training at the end of the semester will be given credit in
semester. Students shall have to submit a project report to be signed by the industry training
manager or lab-in-charge of R&D organization.

--- Page 34 ---
8th Semester
UPE08B30: Entrepreneurship Development
1. Entrepreneurship
Entrepreneur- Traits of Entrepreneurs- Types of Entrepreneurs- Intrepreneur Difference
between Entrepreneurs and Intrapreneur- Entrepreneurial Growth.
2. Motivation
Major motives influencing Entrepreneur- Achievement Motivation Training, Self Rating,
Business game, Thematic Apperception Test- Stress Management. Entrepreneurship
Development programs-Need, Objectives.
3. Business
Small Enterprises-definition, classification-characteristics, ownership structure- Project
Formulation-Steps involved in setting up a Business- Indentifying, Selecting a good business
opportunitiy, Market survey and Research, Techno economic Feasibility Assessment-
Preliminary Project Report- Project Appraisal- Sources of information- Classification of
needs andAgencies.
4. Financing andAccounting
Need- Sources of Finance, Term Loans, Capital Structure, Financial Institutions,
Management of working capital, Costing Break Even Analysis, Network Analysis techniques
of PERT/CPM-Taxation-Income Tax, Excise Duty- SalesTax.
5. Support toEntrepreneurs
Industrial support to Entrepreneurs- Sickness in smallll business-concept, magnitude, causes
and consequences, corrective measures- Government policy for small scale Enterprise-
Growth strategies in small Industry- Expansion, Diversification, joint venture, Merger, Sub
contracting.
TextBook:
1.Khanka S. S., “Entrepreneurial Development”, S. Chand and Co. Ltd., 1997.
Reference:
1.EDII- “Faculty and external experts- A Hand Book for new Entrepreneurs: Publishers:
Entrepreneurship Development”, Institute of India, Ahmedabad, 1986.

--- Page 35 ---
UPE08XXX: Professional Ethics
1. EngineeringEthics
Senses of ‘Engineering Ethics’- variety of moral issues- types of inquiry- moral dilemmas-
moral autonomy- Kohlberg’s theory-Giligan’s theory- consensus and controversy-
professions and professionalism- professional ideas and virtues- theories about right action-
self interest customs and religion-uses of ethical theories.
2. Engineering as socialexperimentation
Engineering as experimentation- engineers as responsible experimenters- codes of ethics- a
balanced outlook on law- the challenger case study.
3. Engineer’s Responsibility forsafety
Safety and risk- assessment of safety and risk- risk benefit analysis- reducing risk- the Three
Mile Island and Chernobyl case studies.
4. Responsibilities and Rights Collegiality and loyalty- respect for authority- collective
bargaining- confidentiality- conflicts of interest- occupational crime- professional rights-
employee rights- intellectual property rights (IPR) -discrimination.
5. GlobalIssues
Multinational Corporation- environmental ethics-Computer ethics-Weapons Development-
engineer as managers –consulting engineer –engineer as expert witnesses and advisors –
moral leadership –sample code of conduct.
Text Books:
1. Miki Martin and Roland Schinzinger, “Ethics in Engineering,” Mc Graw Hill, New York
1996,
Reference:
1. Ethics in Engineering Profession by prof S.K. Chakraborty ,IITM-Joka,
2. Charles D. Fleddermann,”Engineering Ethics,” PranticeHall , New Maxico1999.
3. Laura Schlesinger,” How could you do that: The Abdication of character, courage and
conscience,”
Harper Collins, New York, 1996,
4. Stephen Carter,” Integrity.” Basic Books, Newyorks,1996,
5. Tom Rush,” The Power of Ethical persuasion: From Conflict to partnership at works and in
Private
Life,” Viking, New York 1993,

--- Page 36 ---
UPE08B32: Elective
List of Elective
1. Project Planning and Appraisal
Project Definition : Venture analysis, Project management Features; Project organisation
design; Operation planning and resource allocation; Plant location analysis models; Project
scheduling; Gantt charts; Analysis of project networks - PERT and CPM. Scheduling under
Resources constraint, Cash scheduling to multi-projects situation Project monitoring and
control aspects; Decision making theories in Management under certainty, risk, uncertainty
and competitive situations; applications of the methodologies and formulations in such
project decision making problem solutions; Project capital, cost estimation; Breakeven
Analysis, Cost Benefit Analysis; Profitability Analysis, Commercial and notional
profitability. Project Engineering, procurement, storage and construction functions and other
related management problems; Project wind up and technological obsolescence; Computer
aided ProjectManagement.
References :
1. Operations Research – An Introduction byTaha
2. Principles of Operations Research with Applications to Managerial Decision byWagner
2. Supply Chain Management
Building blocks of a supply chain network. Business processes in supply chains. Types of
supply chains and examples. Strategic, tactical, and operational decisions in supply chains.
Supply chain performance measures. Supply chain inventory management: Newsboy, Base-
stock, and (Q,R) models, multi-echelon supply chains, bullwhip effect. Performance
modeling of supply chains using Markov chains and queuing networks. Mathematical
programming models for supply chain planning, design, and optimization. Best practice
supply chain solutions. Internet-enabled supply chains: e-marketplaces, e-procurement, e-
logistics, e-fulfillment, customer relationship management, web services, Rosetta net, ERP
and supply chains, supply chain automation, and supply chainintegration.
Books
1. W.J. Hopp and M.L. Spearman. Factory Physics: Foundations of Manufacturing
Management. Irwin, McGraw-Hill,1996.
2. N. Viswanadham. Analysis of Manufacturing Enterprises. Kluwer Academic Publishers,
2000.
3. Sridhar Tayur, Ram Ganeshan, Michael Magazine (editors). Quantitative Models for
Supply Chain Management. Kluwer Academic Publishers,1999.
4. R.B. Handfield and E.L. Nochols, Jr. Introduction to Supply Chain Management.Prentice
Hall,1999.
4. N. Viswanadham and Y. Narahari. Performance Modeling of Automated manufacturing
Systems. Prentice Hall of India, 1998.
6. Sunil Chopra and Peter Meindel. Supply Chain Management: Strategy, Planning,and
Operation, Prentice Hall of India,2002.
7. Jeremy F. Shapiro. Modeling the Supply Chain. Duxbury Thomson Learning,2001.
8. David Simchi Levi, Philip kaminsky, and Edith Simchi Levi. Designing and Managing the
Supply Chain: Concepts, Strategies, and Case Studies. Irwin McGrawHill,2000.
4. Managerial Economics
Interaction between economic theory and production and managerial decision making;

--- Page 37 ---
concept of firm, industry and economy. Consumer behaviour, utility, indifference curves and
maps; consumer' supply, demand determinations, demand function. Production function,
economy of scale, effect of technology, equilibrium condition, optimal expansion path. Short
and long range cost functions. Perfect competition and monopoly, equilibrium of firm and
industries, different models of firm. Determination of price, price discrimination, pricing of
joint products.
References :
1. Modern Micro Ecomomics byKou.
2. Managerial Economics by Peterson &Lewis
5. Soft computing in Decision Technology
Evolution of Decision Making Role of Cognitive Mind in Decision Technology. Decision
Making under certain, uncertain and risk environments. Distributed Decision Making. Role of
Fuzzy Sets and Systems in Decision Making. Multi Criteria Decision Making (MCDM).
Fuzzy Multi Criteria Decision Making (FMCDM) Artificial Neural Network (ANN) and
application of ANN in Decision Sciences. Genetic Algorithm (GA) and application of GA in
Decision Sciences. Application of ELECTRE, AHP,Fuzzy AHP, TOPSIS ,Fuzzy TOPSIS in
Decision Making in various engineering problems. Data Mining and Data Warehousing. Data
Envelope Analysis (DEA). Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) and Ant Bee Colony
Optimization (ABC) Techniques.
Reference:
1. Amit Konar, Computational Intelligence-Princeples, Techniques and Applications-
Springer.
2. Kalyanmoy Deb, Optimization for Engineering Design-Algorithms andExamples-PHI.
3. S.S.Rao, Engineering Optimization-theory and Practice-New Age International
Publishers.
4. Sankar K. Pal & Paul P. Wang, Genetic Algorithms for Pattern Recognition-CRC
Press.
5. D.E. Goldberg, Genetic Algorithms-AddisonWesley.
6. K.V.Mitter,Optimization
7. Liu & Lee, Introduction to SoftComputing-PHI.
6. Mechatronics and Modern Control
Introduction to Mechatronics: Definition, Mechatronics in manufacturing, products and
design. Comparison between Traditional and Mechatronics approach.
Electronics: review of fundamentals of electronics, logic gates and their operations, data
conversion devices, sensors, micro-sensors, transducers, electrical contacts, actuators and
switches, contactless input devices, signal processing devices; relays, output devices.
Drives: Stepper motors, servo-drives.
Mechanical: Ball screws, linear motion bearings, transfer systems.
Hydraulic: Hydraulic elements, actuators and various other elements. Design of hydraulic
circuits.
Control systems: Open loop and closed loop control, block diagrams, transfer functions,
Laplace transforms; Mathematical model of physical system; PI and PID controllers, 8085
microprocessor, PLC controller and Ladder diagrams, hydraulic and pneumatic controllers;
Time domain analysis, , transient response of first and second order systems; Introduction to

--- Page 38 ---
non-linear control; state space analysis, optimal design and fabrication of Mechatronics
systems.
References
1.Raven F. H., “Automatic control Engineering”, 5/e McGraw Hill International.
2.Ogata K, “Modern Control Engineering”, 3/e, Prentice Hall.
3.Kuo B. C., “Automatic control system”, 6/e, Prentice Hall.
4.HMT Ltd, “Mechatronics”, Tata McGraw Hill.
5. Kurtz G. W., Schueller J. K., Claar P. W., “Machine Design for mobile and industrial
applications”,SAE.
6. Bolton W.,”Mechatonics”, AddisonWesley.
UPE08XXX: Project
UPE08P35: Comprehensive Viva voce:
A student will have to appear at the comprehensive viva-voce examination on all the subjects
covering the whole syllabus before a board of examiners including one external expert.