
--- Page 1 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Department of Mathematics
Syllabus for
Master of Science
in
Mathematics and Computing

--- Page 2 ---
Semester-I
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Marks Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
1. Discrete Mathematics 100 3 1 0 4
2. Linear Algebra 100 3 1 0 4
3. Real Analysis 100 3 1 0 4
4. Abstract Algebra 100 3 1 0 4
Computer Programming in C++,
5. 50 2 0 0 2
Matlab/Mathematica (Theory)
Computer Programming in C++,
6. 50 0 0 3 2
Matlab/Mathematica (Lab)
Total Marks = 500 Total Credit = 20
Semester-II
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Marks Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
1. Topology 100 3 1 0 4
2. Ordinary Differential Equation 100 3 1 0 4
3. Complex Analysis 100 3 1 0 4
Statistical inference and
4. 100 3 1 0 4
Stochastic Processes
Numerical Methods and
5. 50 2 0 0 2
Scientific Computing
6. Numerical Methods Lab 50 0 0 3 2
Total Marks = 500 Total Credit = 20
Page No - 2 of 37

--- Page 3 ---
Semester-III
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Marks Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
1. Mathematical Methods 100 3 1 0 4
2. Partial Differential Equation 100 3 1 0 4
3. Measure Theory 100 3 1 0 4
4. * Elective – I 100 3 1 0 4
5. * Elective – II 100 3 1 0 4
Total Marks = 500 Total Credit = 20
Semester-IV
##Option – 1
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Marks Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
1. # Elective – III 100 3 1 0 4
2. #Elective – IV 100 3 1 0 4
3. #Elective – V 100 3 1 0 4
4. Project And Seminar 100 0 5 0 5
5. Viva 100 0 3 0 3
##Option – 2
6. Industrial Project 300 0 12 0 12
7. Project Seminar 100 0 5 0 5
8. Comprehensive Viva 100 0 3 0 3
Total Marks = 500 Total Credit = 20
## Student of M.Sc Mathematics and Computing can choose either Option – 1 or Option – 2 in IVth Semester
Total Credit - 80
Page No - 3 of 37

--- Page 4 ---
*Elective – I and *Elective – II
Subject Code Name of the Subject
Data Structure and Algorithm
Operation Research – I
Differential Geometry
Number Theory and Cryptography
Soft Computing – I
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation – I
* Subject to the availability of the faculty any two elective papers will be offered
#Elective – III, #Elective – IV and #Elective – V
Subject Code Name of the Subject
Advanced Numerical Analysis
Operation Research – II
Mechanics ( include Elasticity)
Fluid Mechanics
Soft Computing – II
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation – II
Graph Theory
Theory of Computation
Advanced Topology
Functional Analysis
Fuzzy Mathematics
Decision Theory & Computational Statistics
Financial Mathematics
#Subject to the availability of the faculty any three elective papers will be offered
Page No - 4 of 37

--- Page 5 ---
Detailed Syllabus
Page No - 5 of 37

--- Page 6 ---
M. Sc. 1st Semester
[Compulsory]
Discrete Mathematics
Set Theory
Sets and classes, relations and functions, recursive definitions, posets, Zorn’s lemma, cardinal and ordinal
numbers.
Logic
Propositional and predicate calculus, well-formed formulas, tautologies, equivalence, normal forms, theory
of inference.
Combinatorics
Permutation and combinations, partitions, pigeonhole principle, inclusion-exclusion principle, generating
functions, recurrence relations.
Graph Theory
Graphs and digraphs, Eulerian cycle and Hamiltonian cycle, adjacency and incidence matrices, vertex
colouring, planarity, trees.
Reference Books
a) N. Deo, Graph Theory, Prentice Hall of India, 1974.
b) J.P. Tremblay and R. Manohar, Discrete Mathematical Structures with Applications to Computer
Science, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi, 2001.
c) C. L. Liu, Elements of Discrete Mathematics, 2nd Edn., Tata McGraw-Hill, 2000.
d) K. H. Rosen, Discrete Mathematics & its Applications, 6th Edn., Tata McGraw-Hill, 2007.
e) V. K. Balakrishnan, Introductory Discrete Mathematics, Dover, 1996.
f) J. L. Hein, Discrete Structures, Logic, and Computability, 3rd Edn., Jones and Bartlett, 2010.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 1st Semester
[Compulsory]
Linear Algebra
Review of Vector Spaces
Vector space, subspace, span, linear independence, basis, dimension. Linear transformation: Linear
transformation, rank-nullity, Isomorphisms, matrix representation, change of basis, space of linear
transformations, Existence of eigenvalues, characteristic polynomial, eigenspace, generalized eigenvectors,
Linear functional, Representation of linear transformations by matrices, Dual spaces, Second dual, Reflexive
spaces, Invariant subspaces, Direct-sum decomposition, Cyclic subspaces and Annihilators, minimal
polynomial, The rational and Jordan canonical forms.
Page No - 6 of 37

--- Page 7 ---
Inner Product Spaces
Inner products, norm and angle, orthogonality, Gram-Schmidt process, orthogonal complement, best
approximation and least squares, Riesz representation and adjoint. Block diagonalization: Diagonalizability,
Schurtriangularization, Jordan form.
Spectral Representation
Operators on inner product spaces, projections, normal operators, self-adjoin operators, singular value
decomposition, polar decomposition.
Reference Books
a) Axler,S., Linear Algebra Done Right, Springer International Student Edition (1997).
b) Hoffman, K., Kunze, R.: Linear Algebra, Prentice Hall Int. Inc., Englewood Cliffs (1971).
c) Linear Algebra, M.T.Nair and A.Singh, Springer, 2018.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 1st Semester
[Compulsory]
Real Analysis
Point Set Topology
Limit points of a set and isolated point of a set, closed sets, dense sets, countable and uncountable sets.
Neighbourhood of a point, Interior point, Open set. Union, intersection of open sets and closed sets.
Bolzano-Weierstrass theorem, Series and Sequences, Abel’s test, Dirichlet’s test, Mertens’ theorem,
Abel’s theorem, limit of a function.
Metrics and Norms
Metric spaces, normed vector spaces, convergence in metric spaces, continuous functions, completeness,
Baire’s Category Theorem, Contraction mapping theorem, connectedness, Intermediate Value Theorem,
Compactness, Heine-Borel Theorem.
Differentiation
Differentiation, Taylor's theorem.
Integration
Function of bounded variation, Riemann- Stieltjes integral and relation with Riemann integral, Darboux-
Stieltjes integral. Mean value theorems.
Sequences and Series of Functions
Sequences and series of functions, Uniform convergence, power series and Fourier series, Fourier Series,
Dirichlet’s Kernel, Riemann- Lebesgue theorem, pointwise convergence of Fourier Series of functions of
bounded variation.Weierstrass approximation theorem, Equicontinuity, Arzela-Ascoli theorem.
Page No - 7 of 37

--- Page 8 ---
Reference Books
a) K.R. Stromberg, Introduction to Classical Real Analysis, Wadsworth International, 2017.
b) J.M. Howie, A First Course in Real Analysis, Springer, 2006.
c) H.L. Royden, Real Analysis, Paperback, 1988.
d) R. Robert, G. Bartle, Donald R. Sherbert, Introduction to Real Analysis, 2014.
e) S.C. Malik, Principles of Real Analysis, New Age International Publishers, 2011.
f) S.K. Mapa, Introduction to Real Analysis, Sarat Impressions Pvt. Ltd, 2019.
g) Shanti Narayan, M D Raisinghania, Elements of Real Anyalsis, S. Chand Group, 2008.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 1st Semester
[Compulsory]
Abstract Algebra
Group Theory
Review of basic Group Theory, Group Actions, Kernel and Stabilizer of Group Actions, Transitive Group
Action, Cayley's Theorem, The Class Equation, Sylow's Theorems, Solvable groups, Nilpotent groups, Direct
Products, Structure Theorem for Finite Abelian Groups, Existence and universal Properties of free Groups,
Examples of Groups specified by Generators and Relations.
Ring Theory
Review of basic Ring Theory, Properties of Ideals, Prime and Maximal Ideals, Two-sided ideals and Quotient
Rings, Chinese Reminder Theorem, Euclidean Domain, Euclidean Algorithm, Principal Ideal Domain,
Euclidean Domain is a Principal Ideal Domain, UFD, PID implies UFD, Universal Property of a Polynomial
Ring, Criteria for Irreducibility, Definition and simple examples of modules over commutative and non-
commutative rings.
Field Theory
Finite and Algebraic Extensions, Existence and Cardinality of Algebraic Closure, Finite Fields, Galois Theory
of Polynomial in characteristic zero and simple examples Classical Straightedge and Compass construction
and examples, normal, separable and Galois extensions.
Reference Books
a) D. S. Dummit and R. M. Foote, Abstract Algebra, 2nd Edition, John-Wiley, 1999.
b) S. Lang, Algebra, 3rd Edition, Addison-Wesley, 1999.
c) J.A. Gallian, Contemporary Abstract Algebra, 4th Ed., Narosa, 1999.
d) M. Artin, Algebra, Prentice Hall inc 1994.
e) I.N. Herstein, Topics in Algebra, John-Wiley, 1995.
f) T. A. Hungerford, Algebra, Graduate Texts in Mathematics, Springer-Verlag, 1980.
* * * * * *
Page No - 8 of 37

--- Page 9 ---
M. Sc. 1st Semester
[Compulsory]
Computer Programming in C++, Matlab/Mathematica (Theory & Lab)
Basic Features
The Matlab workspace about variables, complex number, floating point arithmetic, Mathematical functions.
Script M files
Use, Block comments and code cells, startup and finish. Array and Array operations: Simple array, Array
addressing or indexing, Array construction, Array orientation, Scalar Array Mathematics, array Manipulation,
Array sorting, Sub array searching, Array size, Array and Memory utilization, Multidimensional Array
construction & its manipulation. Numeric data type: Integer data type, floating point data types.
Cell Arrays and Structures
Cell array creation, its manipulation, Retrieving cell array content, comma separated list, cell functions, cell
array of strings, structure creation, structure manipulation, structure functions. Character string: String
construction, string evaluation, string functions, cell array of strings.
Relational and Logical Operations
Relational and logical operators, Relational and logical functions, Nans and empty, operator precedence.
Control flow: For loops, while loops, if else end construction, switch case construction, Try catch blocks.
Application to Numerical Analysis
The following topics may be covered in MATLAB. Bisection Method, Newton Raphson Method, Regula Falsi
method, Iteration Method, Graffe’s Root squaring method, Power Method, L.U. Decomposition Method,
Romberg Method, Muller Method, Adams Moulton Method, Newton’s Method (forward & backward),
Lagrange’s interpolation, Divided Difference method, Numerical Differentiation (1st & 2nd Order),
Numerical Integration, Least square method, Gauss Elimination method, Gauss Seidal Method, Jacob iteration
method, Milne’s Method, RungeKutta Method.
Reference Books
a) A. Gilat, Matlab an Introduction with Applications, Wiley Publication, 2010.
b) S. C. Chapra, Applied Numerical Methods with Matlab for Engineers and Scientists, Tata McGraw-
Hill, 2008.
c) R. Pratab, Getting started with Matlab, 2016.
* * * * * *
Page No - 9 of 37

--- Page 10 ---
M. Sc. 2nd Semester
[Compulsory]
Topology
Topology on the real line and plane, Topological Spaces, Subspace topology , Bases and Sub-bases,
Continuous Functions and homeomorphisms, Connected spaces, Components and Local Connectedness, Path
connectedness, Compact spaces, Local compactness. Countabilities and Separation axioms. Product Topology,
Quotient Topology. The Urysohn Lemma, The UrysohnMetrization Theorem. The Tietze Extension Theorem,
Tychonoff Theorem.
Reference Books
a) J.V. Deshpande, Introduction to Topology, Tata McGraw-Hill, 1988.
b) J. Dugundji, Topology, Allyn and Bacon, Inc, 1966.
c) J.L. Kelley, General Topology, Van Nostrand, Princeton, 2014.
d) M.G. Murdeswar, General Topology, New Age International, 2020.
e) G.F. Simmons, Introduction to Topology and modern Analysis International Student edition, 1983.
f) S. Willard, General Topology, Addison Wesley, Reading Mass, 1970.
g) Seymour Lipschutz, General Topology, Mc Graw-Hill, 1965.
h) K.D. Joshi, Introduction to General Topology, New Age International, 1983.
i) J.R. Munkres, Topology, 2nd Ed., Pearson Education India, 2002.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 2nd Semester
[Compulsory]
Ordinary Differential Equation
Existence and Uniqueness of Solutions
Existence and uniqueness of solution, Picards theorems, Gronwall’s inequality, Dependence of solution on
initial conditions and on function, Continuation of solutions, Nonlocal existence of solution.
Strum-Liouvilles System and Green’s Function
Strum-Liouvilles system, Green’s function and its applications to boundary value problems, some
oscillation theorems such as Strum theorem, Strum comparison theorem and related results.
Homogeneous and Non-homogeneous Equation
System of first order equation, Existence and Uniqueness of solution for systems, fundamental matrix, Non
homogeneous linear system, Linear system’s with constant as well as periodic coefficients, General theory
of homogeneous and non homogeneous linear ODE, Second order linear equations with variable co-
efficients. Reduction of order when one solution of the homogeneous part is known. Complete solution.
Reduction to normal form, Change of independent variable, Transformation of the equation by changing the
dependent variables / the independent variable. Wronskian and its properties, variation of parameters,
Cauchy-Euler equations.
Page No - 10 of 37

--- Page 11 ---
Series Solution
Series solutions, Legendre differential equation and Legendre polynomials, Bessel’s differential equation
and Bessel’s function. Laguerre differential equation and Lagurre polynomial, Hermite differential equation
and Hermite polynomial; recurrence relations, orthogonal properties.
Reference Books
a) E.A. Coddington: An introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations, Prentice Hall of India, New
Delhi, 1991.
b) P. Haitman: Ordinary Differential Equations, Wiley, New York, 1964.
c) E.A. Coddington and H. Davinson: Theory of Ordinary Differential Equations, McGraw Hill, NY,
1955.
d) S.C. Deo, Y. Lakshminathan and V. Raghavendra: Text Book of Ordinary Differential Equation
(Second Edition) Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi. 1997
* * * * *
M. Sc. 2nd Semester
[Compulsory]
Complex Analysis
Limits, Continuity and Differentiability, Analytic functions, Harmonic functions and multi-valued functions.
Convergence of numerical series, Radius of convergence of power series, and power series as an analytic
function, Laurent series.
Classification of singularities, Cauchy's Residue theorem and evaluation of Real Integrals. Cauchy's integral
theorem, Cauchy integral formula, Morera's theorem, Taylor`s theorem, Laurent's theorem, Liouville's
theorem, Schwarz lemma; Maximum Modulus Principle, Branch of Lagarithm: Branch cut, Branch point.
Conformal mappings, Topology of the complex plane, Stereographic Projections, Riemann sphere, Linear
fractional Transformations, Critical Points and Inverse Mappings, Cross ratio, Bilinear Transformation.
Exponential and Trigonometric Transformation.
Reference Books
a) Lars V. Ahlfors, Complex Analysis, McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc., New York, 1986.
b) 1. S. Ponnusamy and H. Silverman, Complex Variables with Applications, Birkhauser, Boston, 2006.
c) J.W. Brown and R.V. Churchil, Complex Variables and Applications, McGraw Hill, 2008.
d) H. A. Priestly, Introduction to complex analysis, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1990.
e) A. I. Markushivich, Theory of Functions of Complex Variables, Vol-I, II, Prentice-Hall, 1965.
f) John B. Conway, Functions of One Complex Variable, Second Edition, Springer International
Student-Edition, Narosa Publishing House, 1980.
* * * * * *
Page No - 11 of 37

--- Page 12 ---
M. Sc. 2nd Semester
[Compulsory]
Statistical Inference and Stochastic Processes
Statistical Inference
Introduction
Parametric models, Parameters, Random sample and its likelihood, Statistic and its sampling distributions,
Problems of inference. Examples from standard discrete and continuous models such as Bernoulli,
Binomial, Poisson, Negative Binomial, Normal, Exponential, Gamma, Weibull, Pareto etc.
Sufficiency and Estimators
Concept of sufficiency, minimal sufficiency, Neyman factorization criterion, Fisher information,
Exponential families. Maximum likelihood estimators, Method of moment estimators, Percentile estimators,
Least squares estimators, Minimum mean squares estimators, Uniformly minimum variance unbiased
estimators.
Statistical Hypothesis
Simple and composite hypotheses, Null hypotheses, alternative hypotheses, one-sided and two-sided
hypotheses. The critical region and test statistic, Type I error and Type II error, Level of significance.
Power function of a test, most powerful test. The p-value (observed level of significance), Calculating p-
values.Simple hypothesis versus simple alternative: Neyman-Pearson lemma (Statement only).
Stochastic Process
Stochastic Processes
Definition and examples of stochastic processes, Classifications of stochastic processes.
Markov Chains
Definition and examples, Transition Probability matrices, Classification of states of a Markov chain,
Determination of higher order transition probabilities, Graph theoretic approach, Reducible Markov chains,
Markov Chains with continuous state spaces, Non-homogeneous Markov Chains, Markov chains in
continuous time: General pure birth and death processes, Birth and death processes with absorbing states.
Poisson Processes
Markov Processes with Discrete State Space: Poisson Process and Its Extensions, Poisson Process,
Postulates for Poisson Process, Properties of Poisson Process, Poisson Process and Related Distributions,
Inter arrival Time, Further Interesting Properties of Poisson Process, Generalisations of Poisson Process.
Stochastic Processes in Queuing and Reliability
General concepts of queuing systems, Steady state and transient behaviour, Birth and death process in
queuing theory, Network of Markovian queuing systems, Reliability.
Introduction to Brownian Motion
Wiener processes, Differential equations for a Wiener process, Kalmogrov’s equations.
Page No - 12 of 37

--- Page 13 ---
Reference Books
a) J. O. Berger, Statistical Decision Theory, 1980.
b) E. L. Lehmann, Testing of Statistical Hypotheses, 1986.
c) P. J. Bickel and K. A. Doksum, Mathematical Statistics, 2006.
d) J Medhi, Stochastic Processes, New Age International Publishers, 2009.
e) S.C. Gupta and V. K. Kapoor, Fundamentals of mathematical Statistics, Sultan Chand & Sons
publication, 2002.
f) R. L. Berger and G. Casella, Statistical Inference, 2006.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 2nd Semester
[Compulsory]
Numerical Methods and Scientific Computing
Numerical Methods
Errors in Numerical Computation
Sources of errors and estimations, Propagation of errors, backward error analysis, Sensitivity and
conditioning, stability, accuracy, precision floating-point arithmetic.
Numerical Solution of Non-linear Equations
Bisection method. Fixed point iteration method, Regula-Falsi and Newton-Raphson methods.
Interpolation
Newton’s forward and backward interpolation formulae, Stirling’s and Bessel’s interpolation formulae,
Lagrange’s and Divided difference interpolation formula, Inverse interpolation, Numerical Differentiation.
Numerical Integration
Newton-Cote’s formula, Trapezoidal, Simpson’s 1rd,Simpson’s 3th and Weddle’s formulae.
3 8
Numerical Solution of a System of Linear Equations
Gauss elimination method, Gauss Jacobi and Gauss-Seidal method.
Numerical Solution or Ordinary Differential Equation
Taylor series method, Picards Method, Euler and modified Euler methods.
Scientific Computing
Solution of System of Linear and Nonlinear Equations
Triangular factorization, relaxation method. Roots of Polynomial equations: Sensitivity of Polynomial Roots,
Steffenson’s method, Bairstow’s method of quadratic factors, Graffe’s root squaring method.
Matrices and Eigen Value Problem
LU decomposition of matrices, Power method of extreme eigen values, Jacobi’s method for symmetric
matrices.
Page No - 13 of 37

--- Page 14 ---
Interpolation
Hermite interpolation, Spline interpolation – cubic splines, least square approximation to discrete data.
Integration
Gaussian Legendre and GaussainChebyshevs quadrature, Richardson’s extrapolation, Euler Maclaurin’s sum
formula, Romberg integration.
Differential Equations
First order differential equation: existence, uniqueness, stability of solution,Euler’s method, Multistep
predictor corrector method, RungeKutta method.
Reference Books
James L. Buchanan and Peter R. Turner: Numerical Methods and Analysis (McGraw-Hill),
a) 1992.
John H. Mathews: Numerical Methods for Mathematics, Science and Engineering (Prentice-
b) Hall) , 1992.
Kendall E. Atkinson: An Introduction to Numerical Analysis (John Wiley and Sons), 2014.
c)
James L. Buchanan and Peter R. Turner: Numerical Methods and Analysis (McGraw-Hill),
d) 1992.
M. K. Jain, S. R. K. Iyengar, R. K. Jain : Numerical Methods for Scientific and Engineering
e) Competition (Wiley Eastern), 1985.
S.S. Sastry, Introductory methods of numerical analysis, (PHI), 2012.
f)
John H. Mathews: Numerical Methods for Mathematics, Science and Engineering (Prentice-
g) Hall) 1992.
Kendall E. Atkinson: An Introduction to Numerical Analysis (John Wiley and Sons), 2004.
h)
M. K. Jain, S. R. K. Iyengar, R. K. Jain: Numerical Methods for Scientific and Engineering
i) Competition (Wiley Eastern), 1985.
James L. Buchanan and Peter R. Turner: Numerical Methods and Analysis (McGraw-Hill),
j) 1992.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 2ndSemester
[Compulsory]
Numerical Methods Lab
Experiments to be Handled Using Computer
NumericalSolution of Algebraic and Transcendental Equations
Write a C program for
(A) Bisection Method
(B) Method of false position and secant method
Page No - 14 of 37

--- Page 15 ---
(C) Newton-Raphson method
Numerical Integration
Write a C program for
(A) Simpson’s one-third rule
(B) Simpson’s three-eighth rule
(C) Trapezoidal rule of integration
Numerical Solution of Ordinary Differential Equations
Write a C program for
(A) Euler’s method
(B) Improved Euler’s method
(C) Runge-Kutta second and fourth order methods
(D) Predictor-corrector methods
(E) Taylor series method
(F) Finite Element Problem
(G) Finite Difference Problem
Numerical Differentiation
Write a C program for
(A)Numerical differentiation
Interpolation Methods
Write a C program for
(A) Everette’s formula
(B) Newton’s forward and backward interpolation
(C) Lagrange’s interpolation
Numerical Solution of System of Linear Equations
Write a C program for
(A) Eigen values and eigen vectors
(B) Method of successive approximation
(C) Gaussian elimination method
(D) Gauss-Seidel iterative method
(E) Inversion of a matrix
Reference Books
a) Anju Khandelwal, Numerical Methods And Computer Programming, Narosa, 2015.
b) C. Xavier, C Language and Numerical Methods, New Age Int. Publishers, 2007.
* * * * * *
Page No - 15 of 37

--- Page 16 ---
M. Sc. 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Mathematical Methods
Integral Transform
Legendre Transforms
Introduction, definition of the Legendre Transform and Examples, Basic Operational Properties of Legendre
Transforms, Applications of Legendre Transforms to Boundary Value Problems, Applications.
Hermite Transforms
Introduction, Definition of the Hermite Transform and Examples, Basic Operational Properties, Applications.
Radon Transform
Introduction, properties of the Radon Transform, Radon Transform of Derivatives and integral, Convolution
theorem for the Radon Transform. inverse of the Radon Transform and the Parseval’s Relation, Applications.
Integral Equations
Definition, different types of integral equations, kernels, Conversion of ordinary differential equations into
integral equations, eigen value and eigen function problem. Solution of integral equation, Fredholm integral
equation of the second kind with separable kernels.
Solution of Fredholm and Voltera integral equations by successive approximation.
Classical Fredholm theory: Statements of Fredholm’s first, second and third fundamental theorems and their
applications.
Integral equations with symmetric kernels, Hilbert Schmidt theorem and some immediate consequences.
Singular integral equations, Integral transform method of solution of integral equations.
Approach to reduce BVP of a self-adjoint DE with homogeneous boundary conditions to integral equation
forms.
Auxiliary problem with more general and inhomogeneous boundary conditions. Modified Green’s function.
Calculus of Variation
VariationalProblems with Fixed Boundaries
The variation of a functional and its properties. Euler’s equation, functionals dependent on several dependent
variables, on higher order derivatives, several independent variables etc. Isoperimetric problems.
VariationalProblems with Moving Boundaries
Transversality conditions, problems related to moving bounderies, one sided variation.
Sufficient Conditions for an Extremum
Jacobi condition, Legendre condition, weak and strong extremum. Hamiltons canonical equation of motion.
Page No - 16 of 37

--- Page 17 ---
VariationalMethods for Boundary Value Problem
Rayleigh Ritz method, Galerkins methodfor BVP in ordinary differential and partial differential equations.
Reference Books
a) I.N.Sneddon, The Use of Integral Transforms, Tata McGraw Hill,1979.
b) B.P.Parasar, Differential equation and integral equation, CBS Publications,2008.
c) Petrovsky,Lectures on the Theory of Integral Equations,Mir Publication,1971.
d) G.Yankovsky, Problems and exercise in Integral Equation, Mir Publication,1971.
e) R.R.Goldberg, Fourier Transform, Cambridge Univ. Press,2009.
f) Gelfand, I. M. and Fomin, S. V., Calculus of Variations, revised English edition translated and edited
by Richard A. Silverman, Prentice-Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1963.
g) Krasnov, M. L.; Makarenko, G. I. and Kisel ev, A. I., Problems and Exercises in Integral Equations,
translated from the Russian by George Yankovsky, 1975.
h) LokenathDebnath ,Dambaru Bhatta, Integral transforms and their applications , Taylor & Francis,
2006.
i) Brunt, Bruce van, The Calculus of Variations , Springer,2004.
j) Pipkin, Allen C., A Course on Integral Equations, Texts in Applied Mathematics, 9, Springer-Verlag,
New York, 1991.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Partial Differential Equation
Higher Order Partial Differential Equation
Homogeneous equations with constant coefficients, Cauchy Problems for first Order Hyperbolic Equations,
Classification of seconds order partial differential equation, Monge’s Method.
Heat Equation
Solution by the method of separation of variables, Applications to one dimensional heat flow, Properties of
solutions.
Wave Equation
Solution by the method of separation of variables, Solution by spherical means and Riemann method of
solution, Applications to vibration of strings.
Laplace's Equation
Solution by the method of separation of variables, Boundary value problems, maximum and minimum
principles, uniqueness and continuity theorems, Dirichlet problem for a circle, Dirichlet problem for a circular
annulus, Neumann problem for a circle, theory of Green's function for Laplace's equation.
Reference Books
a) I.N. Sneddon, Elements of Partial Differential Equations, McGraw Hill Book Company, 1957.
b) Phoolan Prasad, RenukaRavindran,Partial Differential Equations, Wiley Eastern Limited, 1987.
Page No - 17 of 37

--- Page 18 ---
c) F. John, Partial Differential equations, Springer,1982.
d) T. Amarnath, An Elementary Course in Partial Differential Equations,2003.
e) L.C. Ivans, M Graduate,Partial Differential Equations Studies in Mathematics, Volume 19, AMS,
1968.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Measure Theory
The Lebesgue Measure
Outer measure, Measurable sets and Lebesgue measure, Properties of Measurable sets, σ-Algebras,Borel sets
and their measurability, Non measurable sets.
Measurable Functions
Definition and properties of Measurable functions, Sets of Measure Zero, Borel measurable functions,
Sequence of functions, Littlewood’s three principles, Convergence in measure.
Lebesgue Integral
The Riemann integral, The Lebesgue integral of a bounded function over a set of finite measure, The integral
of a nonnegative function, The general Lebesgue integral.
Differentiation and Integration
Differentiation of monotone functions, Functions of bounded variation, Differentiation of an integral,
Absolute continuity, Convex Functions.
The Lebesgue LpSpaces
The Lpspaces, The Minkowski and Holder inequalities, Convergence and completeness, Approximation in
Lp. Bounded linear functionals on the Lp spaces.
Reference Books
a) I.K. Rana, An Introduction to Measure and Integration, Second Edition,Narosa, 2005.
b) G. De. Barra, Measure Theory and Integration, Horwood Publishing Corporation, 2003.
c) P.K. Jain, V.P. Gupta, Lebesgue Measure and Integration, New Age International, 2006.
d) H. L. Royden, Real Analysis (Third Edition), Macmillan Publishing Company, 1988.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 3rd Semester
[Elective]
Data Structure and Algorithm
Basic Concepts
Mathematical Background; Complexity Analysis; Arrays: one dimensional, multi-dimensional, Sparse Matrix,
Elementary Operations; Asymptotic notations- o, O, θ, Θ, ω, Ω and their properties.
Page No - 18 of 37

--- Page 19 ---
Preliminaries
Growth of functions, recurrence relation, generating functions, solution of difference equations, Master's
theorem (without proof). Sorting and Order Statistics: Bubblesort, mergesort, heapsort, quicksort, sorting
in linear time, median and order statistics.
Linear Data Structure
Stacks: Representation, elementary operations and applications such as infix to postfix, postfix evaluation,
parenthesis matching; Queues: Simple queue, circular queue, dequeue, elementary operations and
applications; Linked lists: Linear, circular and doubly linked lists, elementary operations and applications
such as polynomial manipulation.
Non - Linear Data Structure
Trees: Binary tree representation, tree traversal, complete binary tree, heap, binary search tree, height
balanced trees like AVL tree and 2-3 tree, tries, red-black tree, B-tree, other operations and applications of
trees; Graphs: representation, Adjacency list, graph traversal, path matrix, connected components, DAG,
topological sort, Spanning tree; Sorting: Selection sort, bubble sort, quick sort, merge sort, heap sort, radix
sort; Searching: linear and binary search; Hashing: hash tables, hash functions, open addressing.
File Structures
Introduction, data file types, file organization, file access methods.
Algorithms Design Techniques
Divide-and-conquer method. Greedy method. Dynamics programming technique. Branch-and-bound
method. Examples. Representation of graph in a computer. Binary tree traversals. Spanning tree. Shortest
path problem. NP-Completeness.
Reference Books
a) Alfred V. Aho, Jeffrey D. Ullman, John E. Hopcroft, Data Structures and Algorithms, Addison
Wesley, 1983.
b) M.A. WeiSS, Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in CTT, 3rd Edn, Pearson, Addison Wiesley,
2006.
c) A.M. Tenenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein, Data Structures using C, PHI, New Delhi,
2009.
d) S. K. Srivastava, Data Structures Through C in Depth, BPB Publications,2011.
e) T.H. Cormen, C.E. Leiserson, R.L. Rivest, and C. Stein, Introduction to Algorithms, 3rd Edn, PHI,
New Delhi, 2009.
f) DebasisSamanta, Classical Data Structure, PHI Pvt. Limited. 2011.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 3rd Semester
[Elective]
Operation Research – I
Goal Programming
Introduction, Difference between LP & GP approach , Concept of Goal Programming , Graphical solution-
method of GP , Modified simplex method of GP.
Page No - 19 of 37

--- Page 20 ---
Dynamic Programming
Introduction, Nature of Dynamic Programming, Deterministic processes, Non- sequential discrete
optimization, Allocation problems, Assortment Problems, Sequential discrete optimization, Long-term
planning problem, Multi-stage decision process, Application of Dynamic Programming in production
scheduling and routine problems.
Inventory Control
Inventory control – Deterministic including price breaks and Multi-item with constraints. Probabilistic (with
and without lead time). Fuzzy and Dynamic inventory models.
Queuing Theory
Basic Structure of queuing models, Poisson queues, M/M/I, M/M/C or finite and infinite queue length, Non-
Poisson queue- M/G/I, Machine-Maintenance (steady state).
Network: PERT and CPM
Introduction, Basic difference between PERT and CPM. Steps of PERT/CPM Techniques, PERT/ CPM
Network Components and precedence relationships, Critical path analysis, Probability in PERT analysis,
Project Time-Cost, Trade-Off. Updating of the project, Resource allocation – resource smoothing and
resource levelling.
Replacement and Maintenance Models
Introduction. Failure Mechanism of items, Replacement of items deteriorates with time, Replacement policy
for equipment when value of money changes with constant rate during the period. Replacement of items that
fail completely individual replacement policy and group replacement policy. Other replacement problems
staffing problem. Equipment renewal problem.
Simulation
Introduction. Steps of simulation process, Advantages and disadvantages of simulation. Stochastic simulation
and random numbers. Monte – Carlo simulation. Random number. Generation. Simulation of inventory
problems, Simulation of Queuing problems, Role of computers in Simulation. Application of Simulations.
Reference Books
a) A.P. Verma, Introduction to Operations Research, S.K. Kataria& Sons, 3rd Edition 2014.
b) Hamdy A. Taha, Operations Research: An Introduction, 10th Edition, Pearson Education India, 2017.
c) P K Gupta, Operations Research, S Chand, Fifth Edition, 1976.
d) J K Sharma, Operations Research, Theory and Applications, Macmillan India Ltd., 1997.
e) D.S Hira and P K Gupta, Operations Research, S Chand, 2015.
* * * * * *
Page No - 20 of 37

--- Page 21 ---
M. Sc. 3rd Semester
[Elective]
Differential Geometry
Differentiable Manifold
Calculus on Rn: Continuity and differentiability of function from Rnto Rm, Inverse function theorem, Implicit
function theorem, the existence and uniqueness theorem of solution of ODE. Smooth manifold, Differentiable
manifold, Tangent space, Derivative of a smooth map, Tangent bundle,Immersion, submersion, embedding,
sub-manifold; regular and critical point, Whitney weak embedding theorem and its consequences.
Vector Fields
Height of the level set, level curves, Lie bracket, Lie algebra, Lie derivative, integral curve of a vector field,
flows and local flows, existence of integral curve, complete vector field, existence of complete vector field,
vector fields related by a differentiable map. Distribution: Involutive distribution, the Frobenious theorem and
its applications.
Surfaces
Hyperplane, Lagrange multiplier, Vector Fields on Surfaces, maximal integral curve, orientation and its
consistency, Osculating plane, Serret-Frenet formula, first and second fundamental form, the Gauss map
spherical image.
Geodesics
Maximal geodesic, covariant derivative and acceleration, Fermi derivative, The Weingarten Mapgeodesic
flow.
Curvature of Plane Curves
Centre of curvature, radius of curvature, Isometries, Intrinsic differentiation, Gauss-Kronecker curvature,
Fundamental theorem on curves. Curvature of surfaces: Parametrized surfaces, local equivalence of surfaces.
Gauss-Bonnet Theorem and its application to constant curvatures, theorems of Hadmard.
Lie Group and Lie Algebra
Left invariant vector fields, exponential map and its applications, Lie algebra homomorphism, One parameter
subgroups, Adjoint representation.
Reference Books
a) J. A. Thorpe, Elementary Topics in Differential Geometry (Springer), 2004.
b) Mannfredo. P. DoCarmo, Differential Geometry of Curves and Surfaces, Prentice Hall, 1976.
c) J.J. Stoker, Differential Geometry, Wiley-Interscience, 1969.
d) Andrew Pressley, Elementary Differential Geometry, Springer – 2002.
e) B. O`Neill, Elementary Differential Geometry, Academic Press, 1966.
* * * * * *
Page No - 21 of 37

--- Page 22 ---
M. Sc. 3rd Semester
[Elective]
Number Theory and Cryptography
Number Theory
Basis Representation
Principles of mathematical induction, The basis representation theorem, The fundamental theorem of
arithmetic: Euclid’s division lemma, Divisibility, The linear Diophantine equation, The fundamental theorem
of arithmetic.
Combinatorial and Computational Number Theory
Fermat’s little theorem, Wilson’s theorem, Generating functions, The use of computers in number theory,
Fundamentals of congruences, Basic properties of congruences, Residue systems, Riffling.
Solving Congruences
Linear congruences, The Theorems of Fermat and Wilson revisited, The Chinese remainder theorem,
Polynomial congruences.
Arithmetic Functions
Combinatorial study of 𝜑(n), Formulae for d(n) and 𝜑(n), Multiplicative arithmetic functions, The Mobius
inversion formula, Primitive roots: Properties of reduced residue systems, Primitive root modulo p.
Cryptography
Introduction
Basic objects of Cryptography, secret-key and public-key cryptography, one-way and trapdoor one-way
functions, Cryptanalysis attack models, Classical cryptography.
Block & Stream Ciphers
Modes of operation, DES and its variants, RCS, IDEA, SAFER, FEAL, Blowfish, AES, linear and differential
cryptanalysis Stream ciphers based on linear feedback shift registers, SEAL, Unconditional security.
Message Digest
Properties of Hash function, MD2, MD5 and SHA-1, keyed hash function, attack on hash function.
Public Key Parameters
Modular arithmetic, GCD, Primality testing, Modular square root, finite fields.
Intractable Problems
Integer factorisation problem, RSA problem, Modular square root problem, discrete logarithm problem, Diffie-
Hellman problem, known algorithm for solving the Intractable Problems.
Public key Encryption
RSA, Rabin and EIGamalscemes, side channel attacks, Key Exchange: Diffie-Hellman and MQV algorithms.
Page No - 22 of 37

--- Page 23 ---
Reference Books
a) Douglas R. Stinson, Cryptography, Theory & Practice, Second Edition, CRC Press, 2002.
b) Alfred J. Menezes, Paul C. Van Oorschot, Scott A. Vanstone, Handbook of Applied Cryptography,
CRC Press, 2001.
c) Johannes. A. Buchmann, Introduction to Cryptography, Springer, September 2000.
d) Steven D. Galbraith, Mathematics of Public Key Cryptography, Cambridge university press,2012.
e) Jonathan Katz, Yehuda Lindell, Introduction to Modern Cryptography, Chapman & Hall/CRC,2007.
f) Jay R Goldman, The Queen of Mathematics, a historically motivated guide to number theory, A K
Peters Ltd, 2017.
g) SabanAlaca, Kenneth S Williams, Introduction to Algebraic Number Theory, Cambridge University
Press,2004.
h) Richard A Mollin, Advanced Number Theory with Applications, CRC Press, A Chapman & Hall Book,
2017.
i) Kenneth. H. Rosen, Elementary Number Theory & Its Applications, AT&T Bell Laboratories,
AdditionWesley Publishing Company,1993.
j) Kenneth Ireland & Michael Rosen, A Classical Introduction to Modern Number Theory, 2nd edition,
Springer-verlag,1990.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 3rd Semester
[Elective]
Soft Computing – I
Introduction
Introduction to Soft Computing, Components of Soft Computing, Importance of Soft Computing.
Fuzzy Set Theory
Fuzzy sets, Characteristics function and definition of fuzzy sets, 𝑎- level Fuzzy sets: Characteristics function
and definition of fuzzy sets, fuzzy point, sets, convex fuzzy sets, basic operations on fuzzy sets. Cartesian
products, algebraic products, bounded sum and difference, t-norms and t-co norms, quasi-coincidence of two
fuzzy subsets. Fuzzy numbers, triangular fuzzy numbers.
Fuzzy Optimization
Linear Programming Problems with Fuzzy Recourses:
(i) Verdegay’s approach and (ii) Werner’s approach.L.P.Pwith fuzzy resources and objectives.
Zimmermann’s approach, L.P.P. with fuzzy parameters in the objective function.Fuzzy multi-objective Linear
Programming Problem.Methodologies of solving fuzzy M.O.L.P.
Evolutionary Algorithm
Genetic Algorithms; Evolution Strategies; Evolutionary Programming; Genetic Programming; Differential
Evolution and modified methods. Ant Colony Optimization.Particle Swarm Optimization and some recent
Algorithms.
Reference Books
a) Jang J.S.R, Sun C.T., Mizutani E. Neuro, Fuzzy and Soft Computing,1996.
Page No - 23 of 37

--- Page 24 ---
b) Ama Haykin. An Introduction to Neural Networks, 2018
c) Goldberg. Genetic Algorithms in Search, Optimization and Machine Learning, 1989.
d) Klir and Yuan,Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic: Theory and Applications,1995.
e) S. N. Sivanandam, S.N.Deepa, Principles of Soft Computing, Wiley Publication,2011.
f) A.DasBhattacharjee, Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing for Beginners, 2014.
g) H.J Zimmermann, Fuzzy Set Theory - and Its Applications, Allied Publisher’s Limited, 2007.
h) Robert Babuška, Fuzzy Modelling for Control, International Series in Intelligent Technologies,
Volume 12,1998.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 3rd Semester
[Elective]
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation – I
Mathematical Models of Population Biology or Ecology
Mathematical Models
Deterministic and Stochastic. Single species population models. P-V Logistic equation. Population growth
model– An age structured model.
Interactions between Two Species
Host-Parasite type of interactions, Competitive type of interactions. Trajectories of interactions of H-P and
competitive types between two species. Effect of migration on H-P interactions. Some consequences of Lotka-
Volterra equations. Generalized L-V equations. Constant of motion in the dynamical system.
Stochastic Processes and Need of Stochastic Models
Pure birth process, Pure death process, Birth and death process. Linear birth-death-immigration-emigration
processes. Effects of both immigration and emigration on the dynamics of population.
Biological Mechanisms Responsible for "Time-Delay"
Discrete and continuous time-delay. The single species logistic model with the effect of time-delay. Stability
of equilibrium position for the logistic model with general delay function. Stability of logistic model for
discrete time lag. Time-delayed H-P model together with their stability analysis.
Mathematical Theory of Epidemics
Introduction
Some basic definitions. Simple epidemic model, General epidemic model.Kermack-McKendrikthreshold
theorem. Recurring epidemic model. A comparative study of these models.
Control of an Epidemic
Stochastic epidemic model without removal. Models having multiple infections.Epidemic model with multiple
infections. Stochastic epidemic model with removal. Stochastic epidemic model with removal, immigration
and emigration. Special discussion on the stochastic epidemic model with carriers.
Page No - 24 of 37

--- Page 25 ---
Simple Extensions of SIR Model
Different case studies - (i) Loss of immunity, (ii) Inclusion of immigration and emigration, (iii) Immunization.
SIR endemic disease model.
Reference Books
a) X. Q. Zhao, Dynamical Systems in Population Biology, Canadian Mathematical Society,(2017).
b) R. M.Andersson and R M May, Infectious Diseases of Humans,(1992).
c) J. N. Kapur ,Mathematical Models in Biology and Medicine, East West Press Pvt Ltd (1985).
d) R. Habermann, Mathematical Models, Prentice Hall (1977).
e) R. W. Poole, An Introduction to Quantitative Ecology, McGraw- Hill,(1974).
f) E. C. Pielou, An Introduction to Mathematical Ecology, Wiley, New York (1977).
g) R. Rosen, Foundation of Mathematical Biology (vol. I& II), Academic Press,(1972).
h) Mark Kot, Elements of Mathematical Ecology,Cambridge University Press (2003)
i) J. D. Murray, Mathematical Biology, Springer-Verlag, Berlin (1989).
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Functional Analysis
Introduction to Normed Space
Normed linear space, H0̈lder's inequality, Minkowski's inequality, Banach space, equivalent norms,
Riesz lemma, Finite dimensional normed spaces and subspaces, quotient space, Compactness and
finite dimension.
Finite Dimensional Normed Space
Bounded and continuous linear operators, Linear functional, Linear operators and functional on
finite dimensional spaces, Dual of normed spaces, reflexive space, open mapping theorem and
closed graph theorems, Uniform boundedness principle.
Inner Product Spaces
Inner product spaces, Cauchy- Schwarz inequality. Parallelogram law, Pythagorian, theorem,
Bessel’s Inequality, Gram-Schmidt orthogonalisation process, Hilbert space Examples, orthonormal
sets. Complete orthonormal sets and Parseval’s Inequality. Orthogonal complement. Projection
theorem, Riesz Representation theorem.
Operators on Inner Product Spaces
Adjoint of an operator on Hilbert space, properties of adjoint operation, self-adjoint operator and its
characterisation, Projection operator, unitary operator, concept of normal operator and its
characterisation, normed operator, unitary operator and its characterisation. Zorn’s lemma, Hahn-
Banach theorem, Topological vector spaces.
Reference Books
a) Bachman and Naric, Functional Analysis, Academic Press (1966).
Page No - 25 of 37

--- Page 26 ---
b) G. F. Simmon, Introduction to Topology and Modern Analysis, McGraw-Hill Book Company
(1963).
c) Goffman and Pedrick, First Course in Functional Analysis, Prentice-Hall, Inc.1983
d) John B. Conway, A Course in Functional Analysis, Springer (1990).
e) A. E. Taylor, Introduction to Functional Analysis, John Wiley & Sons. (1958).
f) B. V. Limaye, Functional Analysis, New Age International Ltd.2014
g) M. Thamban Nair, Functional Analysis, Prentice-Hall of India Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi (2002).
h) Jain, Ahuja and Ahmad, Functional Analysis, New Age International (P) Ltd. (1997).
i) Kreyszig Erwin, Introductory Functional Analysis with Applications, Wiley Classics Library,
John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York (1989).
j) Walter Rudin, Functional Analysis, Tata McGraw-Hill (1974).
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Advanced Numerical Analysis
Finite Difference Methods for PDEs
Basics on Finite Differences. Finite Difference Approximation of the Laplacian in Two Dimensions.The
Discrete Maximum Principle for a Finite Difference Operator. Stability and Convergence of the Finite
Difference Approximation of the Poisson Problem with Dirichlet Boundary Conditions.An Efficient Solver for
the Dirichlet Problem in the Rectangle. Approximate solution of Fredholm equation by finite sums and
degenerate Kernels. Numerical approximation of Volterra equations.
Finite Volume Methods
Different types of finite volume grids, approximation of surface and volume integrals, interpolation methods.
Finite Element and Boundary Element Methods
Weighted residual method,Galerkin, Least square, partition, moment and collection methods. Solution of
boundary value problems by Ritz method. Finite elements and boundary elements of various terms. Constant
elements by Gaussian quadrature. Numerical integration over finite elements. Solution boundary value
problems by Finite element and Boundary element methods.
Reference Books
a) Isacson and Keller, Analysis of Numerical methods, 1994.
b) Ralston and Rabinowitz, A first course in Numerical Analysis, 2012.
c) G.D.Smith, Numerical solution of partial differential equations, 1985.
d) B.P. Demidovich, J.A.Maron, Computational Mathematics.
e) A. Gourdin, M. Boumahrat, Applied Numerical Methods, 2004.
f) M. K. Jain, S. R. K. Iyengar, R. K. Jain, Numerical Methods for Scientific and Engineering Competition
(Wiley Eastern), 1985.
g) A.R.Mitchell, The finite elements method in partial differential equations, 1977.
h) Prem K. Kytbe, An introduction to boundary element methods, 1995
* * * * * *
Page No - 26 of 37

--- Page 27 ---
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Operation Research – II
Stochastic Programming
Chance constraint programming techniques.
Geometric Programming
Geometric programming (both unconstrained and constrained), Fuzzy geometric programming.
Games
Preliminaries concepts of continuous Game, Bi-matrix Games, Nash equilibrium, solution of Bi-
matrix Games through quadratic programming (relation with non-linear programming)
Multi-objective Linear & Non-linear programming,Complete optimal solution, Pareto & Weak
Pareto optimal solution, Utility function method , Global criterion method, Fuzzy programming
technique.
Optimal Control
Performance indices, methods of calculus of variation, Transversally conditions, simple optimal
problems of Mechanics, Pontryagin’s Principle (with proof assuming smooth condition), Linear
regulator, application of dynamic programming in proving Pontryagin’s Principle, Bang-Bang
controls.
Sequencing
Problem with n jobs two machines, n jobs three machines and n jobs m machines.
Reliability
Concepts, Reliability definition, system Reliability, system failure rate, Reliability of the systems
connected in series or/ and parallel.
Information Theory
Introduction, communication process-memory less channel, the channel matrix, probability relation
in a channel, noiseless channel.Measure of information—Properties of Entropy function, measure of
other information quantities—marginal and joint Entropies, conditional Entropies, expected mutual
information, axiom for an Entropy function, properties of Entropy function. Channel capacity,
Efficiency and Redundancy.
Encoding
Objectives of encoding, Shannon-Fano Encoding Procedure, Necessary and sufficient condition for
noiseless encoding.
Reference Books
a) A.P. Verma, Introduction to Operations Research, S.K. Kataria& Sons, 3rd Edition, 2014.
b) Hamdy A. Taha, Operations Research: An Introduction, 10th Edition, Pearson Education
India, 2017.
c) P. K. Gupta, Operations Research, S Chand, Fifth Edition, 1976.
d) J. K. Sharma, Operations Research, Theory and Applications, Macmillan India Ltd., 1997.
e) D.S. Hira, P. K. Gupta, Operations Research, S Chand, 2015.
* * * * * *
Page No - 27 of 37

--- Page 28 ---
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Mechanics
Classical Mechanics
Coordinate System and Basic Concepts
Generalized co-ordinates, holonomic and non holonomic systems, unilateral and bilateral constraints; principle
of virtual work, D’Alembert’s principle.
Variational Principles
Variational principles, problems of mechanics, moving problems of calculus of variations, shortest distance,
minimum surface of revolution, Brachistochrone problem, iso-perimetric problem, geodesic, fundamental,
lemma of calculus of variations.
Lagrange’s Equations of Motion
Lagrange’s equations, uniqueness of solution, Energy equation of conservative fields.
Hamilton’s Principle
Generalized momentum, problem of Liouville type, cyclic coordinates. Hamilton’s principle, Hamiltonian,
principle of least action.
Hamiltonian Dynamics
Derivation of Lagrange’s equations from Hamilton’s principle, Routh’s equation, Hamilton-canonical equation
of motion.
Poisson Bracket
Poisson bracket, Poisson’s identity, Liouville’s theorem, Jacobi-Poisson theorem.
Canonical Transformations
Canonical transformations, Legendre transformations, generating functions, bilinear invariant condition.
Continuum Mechanics
Stress
Body force, Surface force, Cauchy’s stress principle. Stress vector, State of stress at a point, Stress
tensor, The stress vector- stress tensor relationship. Force and moment equilibrium, Stress tensor
symmetry, Stress quadric of Cauchy, Stress transformation laws, Principal stress, Stress invariant,
Stress ellipsoid.
Strain
The Continuum hypothesis. Deformation Gradients, Displacement Gradient, Deformation tensor,
Finite strain tensors, Small deformation theory—infinitesimal strain tensor, Relative displacement,
Linear rotation tensor, Interpretation of the Linear strain tensors, Strain ratio, Finite strain
interpretation, principal strains, strain invariant, cubical dilatation, Compatibility equation for linear
strain, Strain energy function. Hook’s Law. Saint Venant’s Principle, Airy’s strain function.
Isotropic media, Elastic constraints, Moduli of elasticity of isotropic bodies and their relations,
displacement equation of motion. Waves in isotropic elastic media.Perfect fluid, Kinematics of fluid,
Page No - 28 of 37

--- Page 29 ---
Lagrangian method, Eulerian method, Acceleration, Equation of continuity, The boundary surface,
Stream lines and Path lines, Irrotational motions and its physical interpretation, Velocity potential,
Euler’s equation of motion of an inviscous fluid, Cauchy integral, Bernouli’s equation , Integration of
Euler’s equation.
Reference Books
a) Rana and Joag, Classical Mechanics, Narosa Publications, 1991.
b) D.N. Berghese and A.M. Downs, Classical mechanics and Control, John Willey.
c) E.T. Whittecker, Treatise on the Analytical Dynamics and Rigid Bodies, 1988.
d) I.S. Sokolnikoff, Mathematical Theory of Elasticity , Tata Mc. Grawhill, 1997.
e) S. Valliappan, Continuum Mechanics , Oxford & IBH Publishing Company, 1981.
f) L.E. Malvern, Introduction to the Mechanics of a continuous medium, Prentice - Hall, Inc,
1977.
g) J. B. Marion, S. T. Thornton, Classical Dynamics of Particles and Systems-, Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich, 1988.
h) Scheck, Florian, Mechanics - From Newton’s Laws to deterministic Chaos, Graduate Texts in
Physics, Springer, 2010.
i) J. E. Marsden, Ratiu, Tudor, Introduction to Mechanics and Symmetry, Texts in Applied
Mathematics, Springer-Verlag, 1999.
j) H. Goldstein, Poole. C. P., J. Safko, Classical Mechanics, Pearson, 2000.
k) F. Chorlton, Textbook of Dynamics, Ellis Horwood Series, Mathematics and its Applications,
Halsted Press (John Wiley & Sons, Inc.), 1983.
l) H. Goldstein, Poole. C. P. and J. Safko, Classical Mechanics, Pearson, 2002.
m) F. Chorlton, Textbook of Dynamics, Ellis Horwood Series: Mathematics and its Applications,
Halsted Press (John Wiley & Sons, Inc.), 1977.
n) J. E. Marsden, Ratiu, Tudor, Introduction to Mechanics and Symmetry, Texts in Applied
Mathematics, Springer-Verlag, 1998.
o) S.C. Deo, Y. Lakshminathan and V. Raghavendra, Text Book of Ordinary Differential Equation
(Second Edition) Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi, 1997.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Fluid Mechanics
Review of gradient, divergence and curl. Elementary idea of tensors. Velocity of fluid, Streamlines and path
lines, Steady and unsteady flows, Velocity potential, Vorticity vector.
Continuum hypothesis, forces acting on a fluid, stress tensor, analysis of relative motion in the neighbourhood
of a point, Euler’s theorem, Reynolds transport theorem, conservation of mass, material surface, momentum
equation.
Page No - 29 of 37

--- Page 30 ---
Stream lines, Bernoulli’s theorem, circulation, Kelvin’s circulation theorem, vorticity, Lagrange’s theorem on
permanence of vorticity, two dimensional irrotational flow of an incompressible fluid, Milne-Thomson circle
theorem, Blasius theorem, flow past an airfoil, the Joukowski transformation, Theorem of Joukowski and
Kutta.
Axisymmetric flows, Stokes stream function, Butler’s sphere theorem, flows due to source, doublet, uniform
flow past a sphere, irrotational three dimensional flow, Weiss’ sphere theorem.
Constitutive equations for incompressible fluids, derivation of Navier-Stokes equations. Simple exact
solutions of Navier-Stokes equation: (i) Plane Poiseuille and Hagen-Poiseuille flows (ii) Generalized plane
Couette flow (iii) Steady flow between two rotating concentric circular cylinders (iv) Stokes’s first and second
problems. Dynamical similarity and Reynolds number.
Reference Books
a) G.K. Batchelor, An Introduction to Fluid Dynamics, Cambridge University Press, 1970.
b) F. Chorlton, Textbook of Fluid Dynamics, CBS Publishers & Distributors, 2000.
c) H. Lamb, Hydrodynamics, University Press, 1916.
d) C.S. Yih, Fluid Mechanics, McGraw-Hill Book, Company, 1988
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Soft Computing-II
Fuzzy Systems
Arithmetic operations on Fuzzy intervals and Fuzzy numbers, Lattice of Fuzzy numbers, L-R
representation of fuzzy numbers, Fuzzy equations.
Generalization and Variants of Fuzzy Sets
L-fuzzy sets, interval-valued fuzzy sets, Type 2 fuzzy sets, intuitionistic fuzzy sets and set operation of
intuitionistic fuzzy sets, The Zadeh’s extension principle.
Fuzzy Logic
Related Definitions, Fuzzy Expert Systems, Fuzzy Inference Rules and Fuzzy Reasoning, Introduction to
Fuzzy logic, Fuzzy rule generation, Linguistic variables.
Hybrid Systems
Neuro-genetic systems, Hybrid Evolutionary Algorithms, Fuzzy Neural Systems.
Reference Books
a) Jang J.S.R, Sun C.T. and Mizutani E. Neuro, Fuzzy and Soft Computing, 1997
b) Ama Haykin, An Introduction to Neural Networks. 2008
c) Klir and Yuan, Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic Goldberg, Genetic Algorithms, 2015.
Page No - 30 of 37

--- Page 31 ---
d) S. N. Sivanandam, S.N.Deepa, Principles of Soft Computing, Wiley Publication, 2007.
e) A. Das Bhattacharjee, Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing for Beginners, 2018.
f) H. J Zimmermann, Fuzzy Set Theory - and Its Applications, Allied Publisher’s Limited, 2014.
g) George Klir, Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic: Theory and Applications, Pearson, 2015.
h) Robert Babuška, Fuzzy Modelling for Control, International Series in Intelligent Technologies,
Volume 12, 2012.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation – II
Some Mathematical Aspects of Oscillations of the Biological Systems
Introduction; Biological Clock; Model for the circadian oscillator. Pharmacokinetics. Mathematical
models in Pharmacokinetics -Compartmental Analysis. Technique. Two compartment model -
Clinical Bromsulphalein (BSP) Test.Basic equations for an n-compartment system. Distributions of
drugs in n- compartment model for (i) given initial dose (ii) repeated medication, (iii) constant rate
of infusion and (iv) truncated infusion. Compartment model for diabetes mellitus. Stochastic
compartment models. Drug action. Some general principles for real biological oscillations. Cellular
mechanism and genesis of Atherosclerosis.
Arterial Biomechanics
Importance of studies on the mechanics of blood vessels. Structure and functions of blood vessels;
Mechanical properties. Viscoelasticity; Linear discrete viscoelastic (spring-dashpot) models:
Maxwell Fluid, Kelvin Solid, Kelvin Chains and Maxwell models. Creep Compliance, Relaxation
Modulus. Hereditary Integrals, Stieltjes Integrals.
Constituents of blood. Structure and functions of the constituents of blood. Mechanical properties of
blood. Equations of motion applicable to blood flow. Non-Newtonian fluids - Power law, Bingham
Plastic, Herschel-Bulkley and Casson fluids. Steady non- Newtonian fluid flow in a rigid circular
tube. Fahraeus-Lindqvist effect. Pulsatile flow in both rigid and elastic tubes. Blood flow through
arteries with mild stenosis. Shear stress on surface of the stenosis; Two-layered flow in a tube with
mild stenosis.
Large deformation theory. Various forms of strain energy functions. The base vectors and metric
tensors; Green's deformation and Lagrangian strain tensors. Cylindrical model; Constitutive
equations for blood vessels; Equations of motion for the vascular wall.
Biological Diffusion and Diffusion-Reaction Models
Fick’s laws of diffusion, One-dimensional diffusion model and its solution, Some solutions of two-
dimensional diffusion equation, Various modifications of diffusion equation to diffusion-reaction
models arising in pharmacokinetics and ecology
Hemodialyser and dialysis of blood, Basic equations for a circular-duct and a parallel-plate dialyser,
Pecletnumber, Sherwood number, Solutions of basic equation for a circular-duct dialyser by (i)
Page No - 31 of 37

--- Page 32 ---
separation of variables method and (ii) Galerki’s method. Solution for parallel-plate dialyser
Reference Books
a) D. A. MacDonald, Blood Flow in Arteries, The Williams and Wilkins Company, Baltimore ,
1974.
b) Y. C. Fung, Biomechanics of Soft Biological Tissues, Springer Verlag.
c) R. Habermann, Mathematical Models , Prentice Hall, 1977.
d) R. W. Poole, An Introduction to Quantitative Ecology, McGraw- Hill, 1974.
e) E. C. Pielou, An Introduction to Mathematical Ecology, Wiley, New York, 1977.
f) R. Rosen, Foundation of Mathematical Biology (vol. I& II), Academic Press, 1973.
g) W Flugge, Viscoelasticity, Springer-Verlag, 1975.
h) M Zamir, E L Ritman, The Physics of Pulsatile Flow, 2012.
i) J. N. Kapur, Mathematical Models in Biology and Medicine, East West Press Pvt Ltd, 1985.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Graph Theory
Introduction to Graphs
The concept of a graph, Paths in graphs, Graph models, Graph terminology and special types of
graphs, Bipartite graphs, Complete graphs, External graphs, Intersection graphs, Operations on
graph, Graph Isomorphism.
Blocks
Cutpoints, bridges and blocks. Block graphs and cutpoint graphs.
Trees
Introduction to trees and characterizations, Applications of Trees, Spanning Trees, Minimum
Spanning Trees, Trees in computer science, Centres and centroids, Blockcutpoint trees, Independent
cycles and cocycles, Matroids.
Connectivity
Connectivity and line-connectivity, Graphical version of Menger's theorem. Traversability: Eulerian
Graphs, Hamiltonian Graphs.
Coverings and Matching
Coverings and independence, Critical points and lines, Matching, Maximum Matching Problem,
Minimum covering problems.
Representing Graphs
Adjacency matrix, Incidence matrix, Cycle matrix.
Page No - 32 of 37

--- Page 33 ---
Planarity
Plane and planar graphs, Outerplanar graphs, Kuratowski's theorem, other characterizations of
planar graphs.
Colourability
Vertex colouring, Chromatic number, Edge colouring, Five colour theorem, Four colour conjecture,
Unique colourable graphs.
Directed Graphs
Basic definitions, Type of Connectedness, Covers and Bases, Distance concepts and matrices,
Connectivity, Acyclic digraphs, Cycles and traversability, Orientations and Tournaments.
Network Flows
Max Flow – Min Cut Theorem, Menger's Theorem.
Reference Books
a) F. Harary, Graph Theory, Narosa Publishing House, 1993.
b) Douglas B., Introduction to Graph Theory, West, Prentice-Hall of India Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi
1999.
c) NarsinghDeo, Graph Theory with Applications to Engineering and Computer Science,
Prentice-Hall of India Pvt.Ltd., New Delhi, 1997.
d) K.R. Parthasarathi, Basic Graph Theory, Tata McGraw-Hill Publ. Co. Ltd., New Delhi, 1994.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Theory of Computation
Introduction
Introduction to language theory, Alphabets, definition of phrase structure grammar, Production rules,
sentences, sentential forms, language definitions, derivations.
Regular Languages
Definition, Pumping Lemma of regular sets, Chomsky Hierarchy of languages.Iteration theorems. Recursive
and recursively enumerable sets models, Regular languages models: finite state machines (deterministic and
non-deterministic), regular grammars, regular expressions, equivalence of deterministic and non-deterministic
machines and of the three models. Properties: closure, decidability.
Finite Automata
Finite automaton, Deterministic, Non-Deterministic and their equivalence, Equivalence of regular expressions
and FA.Moore and Mealy machines.
Context -Free Languages
Relations between classes of languages, Context Free Grammar, Derivation trees, ambiguity simplification,
Normal forms, applications.
Page No - 33 of 37

--- Page 34 ---
Pushdown Automata
Pushdown automata, definitions, context free languages, construction of PDA for simple CFLs, Linear
bounded automata, Properties: closure, iteration theorems, parsing.
Turing Machines
Turing machines, Introduction to computability, Universal Turing Machines, Types of Turing Machines,
Techniques for construction of Turing machines, Undesirability and Halting Problem.
Reference Books:
a) D. S. Malik, M. K. Sen,Discrete mathematical structure: theory and applications, Thomson, Australia,
2004.
b) K. P. L. Mishra, N. Chandrasekaran, Theory of Computer Science, Prentice Hall of India, New Delhi,
2001.
c) J. E. Hopcropt, J.D. Ullman, Introduction to Automata Theory, Language and computing,Norasa
Publishing, New Delhi, 2000.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Advanced Topology
Nets, Filters, Ultra filters, Convergence of nets and filters with special reference to zero-set filters and
ultrafilters, Compact sets, Compact spaces, Alexander’s theory, Tychonoff’s theory, Locally compact spaces,
Tychonoff’s spaces, Topological embedding, Embedding Lemma, Embedding theory, Compactification, one
point compactification. Alexanderoff one point compactification, Stone-Cech compactification, Ordering of
compactification, minimality of X and maximality of β(X).
Weak topology and completely regular topology, Topology generated by a family of pseudometrics. Uniform
spaces, total boundedness, Cauchy nets and filters, Completeness, Uniformly continuous maps, Uniform
isomorphism, Product uniform space, Quasi uniform spaces, Proximity spaces, Induced topology, Proximal
neighbourhoods, Quasiproximity spaces.
Reference Books
a) K.D. Joshi, Introduction to General Topology, New Age International, New Delhi, 2017.
b) J.R. Munkres, Topology, 2nd Ed., Pearson Education India, 2002.
c) N. Bourbaki, General Topology Part-I (Transl.), Addison Wesley, Reading, 1989.
d) J. G. Hocking, C. S. Young, Topology, Addison-Wesley, Reading, 2012.
e) J. Dugundji, Topology, Allyn and Bacon, Inc, 1966.
f) J.L. Kelley, General Topology, Van Nostrand, Princeton, 1955.
g) M.G. Murdeswar, General Topology, New Age International, 1990.
h) S. T. Hu, Elements of General Topology, Holden-Day, San Francisco, 1964.
i) S. Willard, General Topology, Addison Wesley, Reading Mass, 2004.
* * * * * *
Page No - 34 of 37

--- Page 35 ---
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Fuzzy Mathematics
Fuzzy Relations
Introduction to fuzzy set, Fuzzy relations on fuzzy sets, composition of fuzzy relations, types of fuzzy
relations, similarity methods, fuzzy graphs.
Fuzzy Functions
Fuzzy functions on fuzzy sets, image and inverse image of fuzzy sets,integration and differentiation of
fuzzy functions.
Fuzzy Matrix
Sum, multiplication of two fuzzy matrices, idempotent fuzzy matrix and their problems.
Fuzzy Rough Set
Introduction to rough set, fuzzy rough set, soft sets and application.
Fuzzy Topology
Chang’s definition and Lowen’s definition, basic concepts, fuzzy open sets, fuzzy closed sets, fuzzy
interior & fuzzy closure, fuzzy continuous function, lower (upper) semi continuous functions, their
basic properties, subspaces, product spaces, quotient spaces, intuitionistic fuzzy topological spaces,
Induced fuzzy topology, Separation axioms in fuzzy topological spaces, Fuzzy filter and fuzzy net,
Fuzzy compact spaces, Fuzzy connected space and fuzzy countability axioms.
Reference Books
a) H.J Zimmermann, Fuzzy Set Theory and Its Applications, Allied Publisher’s Limited, 2014.
b) Robert Babuška, Fuzzy Modelling for Control, International Series in Intelligent Technologies,
Volume 12, 2012.
c) N. Palaniappan, Fuzzy Topology, Norosa, 2006.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Decision Theory and Computational Statistics
Games and statistical games, Statistical decision problem, Decision function, Risk function, Prior and
posterior distribution,Baye’s risk and Baye’s rules.
Least favourable prior, Minimaxity, Admissibility and complete classes, Admissibility of Baye’s rules,
Existence of minimal complete class and Baye’s rules.
The Supporting and Separating Hyperplane theorems, Essential completeness of the class of nonrandomized
rules, Minimax and complete class theorems.
Page No - 35 of 37

--- Page 36 ---
Solving for minimax rules, Essential completeness of class of rules based on sufficient statistics,
Continuity of risk function, Invariant decision problems, Admissible and minimax invariant
decision rules.Analysis of variance, one- way and two – way classification.
Concept of design of experiment, Some standard design: Completely randomized design,
randomized block design, Latin Squares, Graeco Latin Squares and Factorial Design.
Confounding and blocking in Factorial design, fractional factorial design.Simple and multiple
regression models.
Classical techniques of Time series analysis, Smoothing and decomposition, Analysis of covariance
model.
Reference Books
a) James O. Berger, Statistical Decision Theory, Foundation, Concepts and Methods, Springer
series in Statistics, 1980.
b) J.E. Gentle and Wolfgang HSrdle, Yuichi Mori, Handbook of computational statistics:
Concepts and methods, 2004.
c) James O Berger, Statistical Decision Theory and Bayesian Analysis, Springer series, 2nd
edition, 1993.
* * * * * *
M. Sc. 4th Semester
[Elective]
Financial Mathematics
Introduction
Some Basic definitions and terminology.
Basic Theory of Option Pricing
Single and Multi-Period Binomial Pricing Models, Cox-RossRubinstein (CRR) Model, Black
Scholes Formula for Option Pricing as a Limit of CRR Model.
Stochastic Calculus
Brownian and Geometric Brownian Motion, Theory of Martingales. Stochastic Calculus, Stochastic
Differential Equations, Ito’s Formula to Solve SDE’s. Applications of Stochastic Calculus in Option
Pricing.
Mean-Variance Portfolio Theory
Markowitz Model of Portfolio Optimization and Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM). Limitations
of Markowitz Model and New Measures of Risk.
Page No - 36 of 37

--- Page 37 ---
Interest Rates and Interest Rate Derivatives
Binomial Lattice Model, Vasicek, Hull and White Models for Bond Pricing.
Reference Books
a) D. G. Luenberger, Investment Science, Oxford University Press, 2013.
b) M. Capińsky, T. Zastawniak, Mathematics for Finance: An Introduction to Financial
Engineering, Springer, 2010.
c) Thomas Mikosch, Elementary Stochastic Calculus with Finance in view, World Scientific,
1998.
d) Suresh Chandra, S. Dharmaraja, Aparna Mehra, R. Khemchandani, Financial
Mathematics: An Introduction, Narosa Publishing House, 2013.
e) S. E. Shreve, Stochastic Calculus for Finance, Vol. I & Vol. II, Springer, 2010.
f) Sean Dineen, Probability Theory in Finance: A Mathematical Guide to the Black-Scholes
Formula, American Mathematical Society, Indian edition, 2013.
M. Sc. 4th Semester
Syllabus for industrial project will be specified by the respective industry.
* * * * * *
Page No - 37 of 37