
--- Page 1 ---
National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Department of Mathematics
Syllabus for
Integrated BS-MS Dual Degree
in Mathematics and Computing
Syllabus for Integrated BS (4-year) / MS (5-year) programme for
Mathematics and Computing

--- Page 2 ---
Semester-I
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Subject Code Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
1. Mathematics-I 3 1 0 4
2. Chemistry-I 3 1 0 4
3. Physics-I 3 1 0 4
4. Language and Technical Writing 2 0 1 3
5. Physics Lab-I 0 0 3 2
6. Chemistry Lab-I 0 0 3 2
Total Credit = 19
Semester-II
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Subject Code Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
1. Mathematics-II 3 1 0 4
2. Chemistry-II 3 1 0 4
3. Physics-II 3 1 0 4
Basic environmental and
4. 2 0 1 3
atmospheric science
5. Physics Lab-II 0 0 3 2
6. Chemistry Lab-II 0 0 3 2
Total Credit = 19
Page No - 2 of 67

--- Page 3 ---
Semester-III
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Subject Code Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
Introduction to Differential
1. 3 1 0 4
Equation
2. 3D Geometry 3 1 0 4
3. Introduction to Real Line 3 1 0 4
4. Probability & Statistics 3 1 0 4
5. Programming in C (Theory) 2 0 0 2
6. Programming in C (Lab) 0 0 3 2
Total Credit = 20
Semester-IV
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Subject Code Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
1. Data Mining and Ware Housing 3 1 0 4
2. Introduction to Algebra 3 1 0 4
3. LPP and Game theory 3 1 0 4
Mathematical Logic & Numerical
4. 3 1 0 4
Analysis
5. Number Theory and Cryptology 3 1 0 4
Total Credit = 20
Page No - 3 of 67

--- Page 4 ---
Semester-V
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Subject Code Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
1. Data Structure and Algorithm 3 1 0 4
2. Soft Computing-I 3 1 0 4
Integral Transform and its
3. 3 1 0 4
Application
4. Artificial Intelligence 3 1 0 4
Statics and Dynamics
5. 3 1 0 4
Total Credit = 20
Semester-VI
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Subject Code Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
1. Numerical Methods 2 0 0 2
2. Numerical Lab 0 0 3 2
3. Theory of computation 3 1 0 4
4. Soft Computing-II 3 1 0 4
5. Ordinary Differential Equation 3 1 0 4
6. Discrete Mathematics 3 1 0 4
Total Credit = 20
Page No - 4 of 67

--- Page 5 ---
Semester-VII
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Subject Code Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
1. Graph Theory 3 1 0 4
2. Linear Algebra 3 1 0 4
3. Real Analysis 3 1 0 4
4. Abstract Algebra 3 1 0 4
5. Computer Programming Theory 2 0 0 2
6. Computer Programming Practical 0 0 3 2
Total Credit = 20
Semester-VIII
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Subject Code Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
1. Topology 3 1 0 4
2. Tensor Calculus and Riemannian 3 1 0 4
Geometry
3. Complex Analysis 3 1 0 4
Statistical inference and
4. 3 1 0 4
Stochastic Processes
5. Project Work – I 0 4 0 4
Total Credit = 20
Page No - 5 of 67

--- Page 6 ---
Semester-IX
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Subject Code Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
1. Mathematical Methods 3 1 0 4
2. Partial Differential Equation 3 1 0 4
3. Measure Theory 3 1 0 4
4. * Elective – I 3 1 0 4
5. Project Work – II 0 4 0 4
Total Credit = 20
Semester-X
##
Option – 1
Teaching Scheme
Sl. No. Name of the Subject Subject Code Hours per Week Credit
L Tu. Pr.
a) Functional Analysis 3 1 0 4
b) * Elective – II 3 1 0 4
c) * Elective – III 3 1 0 4
d) Project Work – III 0 8 0 8
Total Credit = 20
* Subject to the availability of the Faculty
##
Option – 2
e) Industrial Project 0 0 0 15
f) Project Seminar 0 0 0 3
g) Comprehensive Viva 0 0 0 2
Total Credit = 20
## Student of BSMS Mathematics and Computing can choose either Option – 1 or Option – 2 in Xth Semester
Total Credit - 198
Page No - 6 of 67

--- Page 7 ---
*Elective – I
Subject Code Name of the Subject
Operation Research – I
Differential Geometry
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation – I
* Subject to the availability of the faculty any one elective papers will be offered
#Elective – II & #Elective – III
Subject Code Name of the Subject
Operation Research – II
Advanced Numerical Analysis
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation – II
Fluid Mechanics
Mechanics
Advanced Topology
Fuzzy Mathematics
Decision Theory & Computational Statistics
Financial Mathematics
#Subject to the availability of the faculty any two elective papers will be offered
Page No - 7 of 67

--- Page 8 ---
Detailed Syllabus
Page No - 8 of 67

--- Page 9 ---
BSMS 1st Semester
[Compulsory]
Mathematics – I
Differential Calculus
Limits and continuity (definition and examples only). Partial derivative. Composite function.
Implicit function. Total differentials. Directional derivative. Euler’s theorem of homogeneous
functions of two variables. Statement of Taylor’s theorem for functions of two variables,
Jacobian, maxima, minima. Lagrange’s multipliers.
Applications of differential calculus
Tangent, normal, sub tangent and sub normal. Length of tangent and normal. Angle between
radius vector and tangent. Length of arc and its derivative. Differential of arc length in polar form.
Curvature. Radius of curvature. Newtonian method. Centre and circle of curvature. Envelopes.
Curve tracing, Rectilinear asymptote for cartesian and polar curve, Concavity, Convexity,
Singular points. Nodes. Cusp, points of inflexion, simple problems on species of cusps of a curve
(Cartesian curves only). Area enclosed by a curve, determination of C.G., moments and products
of inertia ( Simple problems only).
Integral Calculus
Improper integral, Beta and Gamma function, Double integral, Triple integral, Calculation of area
and volume.
Vector Calculus
Vector function, limit and continuity, Tangent vector to a curve at a point, Scalar and vector point
function. Gradient, Normal. Directional derivative. Examples. Divergence, Curl. Laplacian
operator. Line Integral, Green’s theorem. Surface Integrals, Gauss and Stokes’s theorem.
Reference Books
a) Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Jain and Iyengar, 2016.
b) Vector Analysis-Louis Brand, 2006.
c) Vector Analysis- Barry Apain, 1979.
d) Vector Analysis- Maity and Ghosh, New Central Book Agency, 2015.
e) Thomas’s Calculus, Thomas and Finney, Pearson publishers, 2018.
f) An Introduction to Analysis: Differential Calculus, R. K. Ghosh & K. C. Maity, 2008
g) Vector Analysis- Schaum’s series, Tata McGraw Hill, 1980.
* * * * * *
Page No - 9 of 67

--- Page 10 ---
BSMS 1st Semester
[Compulsory]
Chemistry-I
Atomic structure
Rutherford’s model for atom, Bohr’s model, Bohr’s orbit, radii, energy, ionization potential, atomic spectra
and atomic number. Hydrogen atom: Spectra, Balmer formula, Rydberg formula, Bohr’s interpretation of
atomic spectra, Bohr’s correspondence principle, Moseley’s experiment, fine structure of spectra and
Somerfield’s new energy states, Zemman effect: magnetic quantum number, vector model of atom, quantum
numbers, Pauli exclusion principle, Hund’s rule for atomic spectra, Aufbau principle, coupling scheme and
atomic states in the vector model, qualitative description of s-, p-, and d-orbitals, electronic configuration for
many electron system. Nature of bonding: covalent and ionic bonds.
Periodic Table and Properties of Elements
Long periodic Table, extended Periodic Table: classification of elements: s-, p-, d-, and fblock elements, post
actinides and super actinides, important properties of elements and their periodic trends: atomic and ionic
radii, ionization potential, electron affinity and electronegativity, different electronegativity scales, screening
effect, effective nuclear charge, Slater’s rules, inert pair effect, melting points; boiling points; diagonal
relationship.
Basic organic chemistry
Different classes of organic molecules and their mechanistic classification: Ionic, radical and pericyclic
reactions; heterolytic bond cleavage and heterogenic bond formation, hemolytic bond cleavage and homogenic
bond formation. Nomenclature IUPAC. Physical Effects, Electronic Displacements: Inductive Effect,
Electromeric Effect, Resonance and Hyperconjugation. Nucleophiles and electrophiles. Reactive
Intermediates: Carbocations, Carbanions, free radicals, carbenes and arenes.
Gaseous and liquid states
Gaseous states: Gas laws, kinetic theory of gases, derivation of gas laws from kinetic theory. Maxwell theory
of velocity distribution. Mean free path. viscosity of gases. Real gases, Van der waal’s equation of state, Virial
coefficients and equation of state. Liquid state: Physical properties of liquids and their measurements. Surface
tension and
viscosity.
Reference Books
a) J. D. Lee, Concise Inorganic Chemistry, 4th Ed., ELBS, 1991.
b) G. L. Miessler, D. A. Tarr, Inorganic Chemistry, 3rd Edition, Pearson, Delhi, india.
c) R. L. Dutta, Elementary Inorganic Chemistry, 5th Ed. The New Book Stall, Calcutta.
d) R. Sarkar, General Chemistry Part-I and Part-II, New Central Book Agency (P) Ltd.
e) A. K. Das, Fundamental Concepts of Inorganic Chemistry Part-I and Part-II, CBS Publishers &
Distributors, New Delhi.
f) J. H. Huheey, E. A. Keiter, R. L. Keiter, O. K. Medhi, Inorganic Chemistry: Principle of structure and
reactivity, 4th Ed., Pearson, New Delhi.
g) Shriver & Atkins, Inorganic Chemistry, 4th Ed., Oxford University Press, Delhi.
h) T. W. Graham Solomon, C. B. Fryhle, Organic Chemistry, John-Wiley and Sons.
i) J. March, Advanced Organic Chemistry: Reactions Mechanism and Structure John-Wiley and Sons.
j) R. T. Morrison and R. N Boyd, ‘Organic Chemistry’, Prentice Hall.
k) Peter Sykes, ‘A guide Book to Mechanism in Organic Chemistry,’ Longman.
Page No - 10 of 67

--- Page 11 ---
l) D.A. McQuarrie and J.D. Simon, Physical Chemistry, Viva Books.
m) Elements of Physical Chemistry by Peter Atkins & Julio De Paula, 5/E, Oxford University Press,
Indian Edition.
n) P.W. Atkins, Physical Chemistry, 7th ed. Oxford University press 2006.
* * * * * *
BSMS 1st Semester
[Compulsory]
Physics-I
Mathematical Preliminary
Vector Differentiation, Scalar and Vector Fields, Directional Derivatives, Vector Differential Operator,
Gradient, Divergence, Curl, Line, Surface & Volume integrals and their applications, Green’s theorem.
Mechanics
Newton’s laws of motion for a system of particles, Constraints, D’Alembert’s Principle, Generalized
Coordinates, Generalized velocity and momentum, Lagrangian formulation, Hamiltonian formulation.
Physics of Waves
Simple Harmonic Motion, superposition of two linear SHMs, Lissajous figures, Damped Vibration:-
differential equation and solution, critical damping, logarithmic decrement, analogy with electrical circuit,
Normal mode analysis (Matrix Inversion) Progressive waves, Forced Vibration, Amplitude and Velocity
Resonance, sharpness of resonance and quality factor.
Time Varying Field and Maxwell’s Equation
Laws of Electromagnetic Induction, Self and Mutual induction, Concept of Displacement Current, Difference
between Conduction Current and Displacement Current, Eddy Current, Maxwell’s Equations, Derivation of
Maxwell’s Equations, Propagation of Electromagnetic Waves in Free Space and Conductors, Solution of
propagation of Plane Electromagnetic Wave in free space and conductors, Concept of Field Energy (Poynting
Vector).
Optics: Interference, Diffraction, Polarization Interference
Coherence (temporal and spatial), Fresnel’s Bi-prism, Interference of Light due to division of amplitude
(Newton’s Ring), colour of thin film.
Diffraction
Types of Diffraction, Difference between Interference and Diffraction, Fraunhofer Diffraction at a Single Slit
and Double slit, Plane transmission diffraction grating spectra, Comparison between Prism and Grating
Spectra, Resolving Power of Microscope, Telescope and other optical instruments and limit of resolution.
Polarization
Plane of Vibration and Plane of Polarization, Classification of Polarized Light, Preferential direction in a
wave; polarized light; natural light; production of linearly polarized light; Methods of Producing Plane
polarized light: Brewster’s law and Malus Law, Nicol’s Prism: polarizer and analyzer; Polaroid, Anisotropic
crystal; calcite crystal; Huygens’ explanation of double refraction; Huygens’ construction of wave fronts;
Page No - 11 of 67

--- Page 12 ---
experimental determination of principal refractive indices; electromagnetic theory of double refraction; phase
difference between o – ray and e – ray; superposition of waves linearly polarized at right angles; types of
polarized light; effect of polarizer on transmission of polarized light; retarders or wave plates; Birefringes,
Babinet Compensator.
Reference Books
a) H. Georgi, Physics of Waves.
b) Rana & Joag, Classical Mechanics, Tata McGraw-Hill Education, India.
c) 3Waves – Pain.
d) D. J. Griffith, Introduction to Electrodynamics, PHI Pubs.
e) Hecht, Optics.
f) A. Ghatak, Optics, Tata Mc Graw Hill.
g) Feynman Lectures on Physics.
h) Berkley Physics – Vol I & II.
* * * * * *
BSMS 1st Semester
[Compulsory]
Language and Technical Writing
Course Objective
To introduce the important aspects of communication skills – speaking, reading, writing, listening and
interpersonal communication. To enrich the students with communicational tools. To pursue their present and
future academic as well as career goals – both inside and outside the classroom domain.
Course content
Unit -1: Organizational Communication:
Process of communication; Features of Successful Professional Communication; Importance of
Communication; Purpose of Professional Communication; Different Forms of Communication;
Communication Network in an Organization; Barriers to communication.
Unit -2: Listening Skills:
Listening is an art ; Listening vs. Hearing; Poor Listening vs. Effective Listening ; Important facts about
listening; Advantages of Good Listening; Process of Listening ; Types of Listening; Intensive vs. Extensive
Listening; Barriers to Effective Listening; Techniques for Effective Listening; Listening and Note Taking.
Unit -3: Effective Presentation Strategies:
Introduction; Defining Purpose; Analyzing Audience and Locale; Organizing Contents; Preparing an Outline;
Kinesics; Proxemics; Paralinguistic.
Unit -4: Oral Communication:
Communication/ public speaking skill, features of effective speech-verbal; group discussion-principle and
practice (the context of a GD, positive and negative roles played in a GD, different stages in a GD etc. and
practice sessions), Interview skills and Non –verbal Communication using Audio-Visual aids, Pronunciation
and Vocabulary extension.
Page No - 12 of 67

--- Page 13 ---
Unit-5: Writing Skills
Fundamentals of Grammar, Models of Technical Writing: Notice Writing, Letters, Reports, Essays, CV,
Comprehension and Advertisements.
Course outcome
Handle all aspects of that experience with a professional demeanour by interacting with team members
responsibly, meeting deadlines, preparing and presenting effectively. Display competence in oral, written, and
visual communication. Possess skills to effectively deliver formal and informal oral presentations to a variety
of audiences in multiple contexts.
Reference Books
a) Raman Meenakshi and Sangeeta Sharma. Technical Communication; Principles and Practice, (II
Edition), Oxford University Press, 2011.
b) Taylor Shirley .Model Business Letters, E-Mail and other Business Documents (VI Edition) Person
Education/ Prentice Hall, 2012.
c) Raymond Murphy. Intermediate English Grammar. (II Edition) Cambridge University Press, 2011.
d) Mitra, Barun. Personality Development and Soft Skills. Oxford University Press, 2012.
* * * * * *
BSMS 1st Semester
[Compulsory]
Physics Lab-I
[At least seven experiments are to be performed]
1. Determination of MH and M/H of a bar magnet.
2. To determine the Young’s Modulus of the material of a beam by bending of beam method.
3. Determination of unknown resistance of a given wire the help of Carey-Foster Bridge.
4. To determine the Dispersive power of the material of the prism, angle of prism is supplied.
5. Determination of Rigidity Modulus of a wire using dynamic method.
6. Determination of surface tension of water by capillary tube.
7. Determination of Wavelength of light by Newton’s ring.
8. Study of polarization of light.
9. To determine the wavelength of Laser by diffraction grating method.
10. Verification of Stefan’s law.
11. To determine the Numerical aperture & bending coupling losses of an Optical fiber by quick
approximation method.
* * * * * *
Page No - 13 of 67

--- Page 14 ---
BSMS 1st Semester
[Compulsory]
Chemistry Lab-I
1. (a) Preparation of standard solution of oxalic acid and standardization of NaOH solution and KMnO
4
solution.
(b) Preparation and standardization of Mohr’s salt solution by KMnO solution.
4
(c) Preparation of standard K Cr O solution and standardization of Mohr’s salt solution and sodium
2 2 7
thiosulphate solution.
(d) Preparation and standardization of Na2EDTA solution.
2. Analysis of water samples by BOD and COD.
3. Estimation of Iron in water.
4. Preparation of organic and inorganic compounds using green chemistry principle
I. Benzilic acid,
II. Dibenzalpropanone,
III. Acetanilide,
IV. Biodiesel.
V. [Cu(NH ) ]SO .H 0
3 4 4 2
VI. [Mn(acac) ]
3
Reference Books
a) Vogel’s Textbook of Quantitative Chemical Analysis, 5th Ed., ELBS with Longman.
b) R. A. Day, A. L. Undrwood, Quantitative analysis 6th Ed., Prentice-Hall of India (P.), Ltd., New
Delhi.
c) W.G. Palmer,Experimental Inorganic chemistry, Cambridge University Press (1962).
* * * * * *
Page No - 14 of 67

--- Page 15 ---
BSMS 2nd Semester
[Compulsory]
Mathematics – II
Matrix and Linear System
Matrix Operations: Elementary row operations, Row reduced echelon form, Determinant. Systems of Linear
Equations: Rank of a matrix, Solvability of linear equations, Gauss-Jordan elimination, Normal form, Cayley-
Hamilton theorem, Quadratic form.
Complex Numbers
De-Moivre’s theorem and its applications. Exponential, sine, cosine and logarithm of complex number. Direct
and inverse circular and hyperbolic functions. Roots of unity.
Theory of Equations
Polynomials with real coefficient, statement of fundamental theorem of classical algebra. Statement of
Descartes’ rule of sign and its applications. Relations between root and coefficient. Transformation of
equations. Standard form of cubic and bi – quadratic equations. Cardan’s solution of cubic equations. Ferrari’s
method of solving bi – quadratic equations.
Infinite Series
Series, Convergence of infinite series. Statement and use of different tests for convergence of series of non-
negative terms, Alternating series.
Reference Books
a) Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Jain and Iyengar, 2016.
b) The theory of equations (Vol. I)- Burnside and Panton, 2011.
c) Foundation of Complex Analysis; S. Ponnusamy, Narosa, 2011.
d) Advanced Higher Algebra: Ghosh and Chakraborty, U. N, Dhur, 1987.
e) Complex Variables: Theory and Applications- H. S. Kasana, Prentice Hall India, 2005.
f) Thomas’s Calculus, Thomas and Finney, Pearson publishers, 2018.
* * * * * *
BSMS 2nd Semester
[Compulsory]
Chemistry-II
Chemical Bonding and Structure-I
Introduction to chemical bonding, ionic compounds: lattice energy: calculation and implications, solvation
energy, Born-Haber cycle and its applications, Fajan’s rules and its applications. Covalent compounds: sigma
and pi-bonds, hybridization, Bent’s rule of hybridization, resonance, dipole moment, Geometry: Qualitative
description of VBT and MOT (diatomic homo and heteronuclear molecules), VSEPR theory, hydrogen
bonding, hydrogen bridge bond, delta-bond, metal-metal bond.
Page No - 15 of 67

--- Page 16 ---
Basic stereochemistry
Elements of symmetry: simple axis, plane of symmetry, center of symmetry, alternate axis of symmetry,
chirality, optical activity, specific rotation, optical purity. Configuration: Types of isomerism. Geometrical and
Optical. Isomerism, Enantiomerism, Diastereomerism and Meso compounds. D and L; cis - trans
nomenclature; Concept of chirality.
Chemical Kinetics and Chemical equilibrium:
Order and molecularity of a reactions, rate laws and rate equation for first order, second order, and zeroth
order reactions. Determination of order of reactions, Energy of activation. Catalytic reactions: homogeneous
and heterogeneous catalytic reaction. Enzyme catalyzed and auto catalyzed reactions, Michelis-Menten
equation. General Characteristics of catalytic reactions. The law of mass action, equilibrium constants, the
reaction isotherms, the reaction isochore, Le chatelier’s principle.
Coordination Chemistry-I
Addition compounds: double salts and complex salts; Werner’s theory; ligands and denticity, classification of
ligands, pi-acidic ligands, macrocyclic ligands, chelates, chelate effects, chelation therapy, supercomplex,
geometry, coordination number; IUPAC nomenclatures.
Isomerism: structural and stereoisomerism: geometrical and optical, facial amd meridional isomers, chirality.
Thermodynamics - I
Definitions of systems and surroundings: Thermodynamic systems: Open, Close, isolated, state of a system,
state function; Variables: Intensive, Extensive properties.
Thermodynamic process: Cyclic, reversible, irreversible, isothermal, adiabatic, isochoric, isobaric. Concept of
heat, work, energy, internal energy. Concept of thermal equilibrium and Zeroth law of thermodynamics,
Graphical explanation of work done during expansion and compression of an ideal gas. First law of
Thermodynamics. Concept of enthalpy and as a state function: Heat change at constant volume and constant
pressure, relation between Cp&Cvusing ideal gas and van der Waals equations. Second law of
thermodynamics.Concept of entropy, Gibb’s free energy, Helmholtz’s free energy.Carnot’s cycle.
Reference Books:
a) J. D. Lee, Concise Inorganic Chemistry, 4th Ed., ELBS, 1991.
b) G. L. Miessler, D. A. Tarr, Inorganic Chemistry, 3rd Edition, Pearson, Delhi, india.
c) R. L. Dutta, Elementary Inorganic Chemistry, 5th Ed. The New Book Stall, Calcutta.
d) R. Sarkar, General Chemistry Part-I and Part-II, New Central Book Agency (P) Ltd.
e) A. K. Das, Fundamental Concepts of Inorganic Chemistry Part-I and Part-II, CBS
Publishers & Distributors, New Delhi.
f) J. H. Huheey, E. A. Keiter, R. L. Keiter, O. K. Medhi, Inorganic Chemistry: Principle of structure
and reactivity, 4th Ed., Pearson, New Delhi.
g) Shriver & Atkins, Inorganic Chemistry, 4th Ed., Oxford University Press, Delhi.
h) T. W. Graham Solomon, C. B. Fryhle, Organic Chemistry, John-Wiley and Sons.
i) J. March, Advanced Organic Chemistry: Reactions Mechanism and Structure John-Wiley and Sons.
j) Finar I. L., ‘Organic Chemistry’ volume 1, Longman, London.
k) E. L. Eliel, ‘Stereochemistry of carbon compounds,; Tata-McGraw Hill.
l) Peter Sykes, ‘ A guide Book to Mechanism in Organic Chemistry,’ Longman.
m) P.S.Kalsi, ‘Organic Reactions, Stereochemistry and Mechanism,’ New age International Ltd.
n) D. Nasipuri, Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds, New age International.
Page No - 16 of 67

--- Page 17 ---
o) G.M. Barrow, ‘Physical Chemistry’ 5th ed. Tata Mc.Grow Hill, New Delhi, 1992.
p) P.W Atkins, Physical Chemistry, 7th ed. Oxford University press 2006.
q) G.W Castellan, ‘Physical Chemistry’ 4th ed. McGrow Hill 1999.
* * * * *
BSMS 2nd Semester
[Compulsory]
Physics – II
Introduction to Quantum Mechanics
Particle properties of wave: Planck’s hypothesis, Wave properties of particle: De Broglie wave as mater
waves, Davison-Germer experiment, Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle and its application, Interpretation of
wave function, Schrödinger equation (time dependent and time independent), particle in a box, Eigen values
and Eigen function.
Concepts of Solids
Statistical distributions, M-B, B-E and F-D statistics (No Derivations) and their simple applications, Planck’s
radiation law, Degenerate Fermi Gas. Crystalline and amorphous solids, crystal structure, Bravais Lattice,
Packing Fraction, Crystallographic planes and miller indices, Inter-planer spacing (cubic system only),
Bragg’s diffraction, Crystal structure analysis, Lattice Vibration, Electrons in a crystalline solid.
Plasma Physics
Definition of plasma and collective behaviour, concept of temperature, quasineutrality and Debye shielding,
criteria for plasmas, plasma oscillations, Single particle motions in - uniform and non-uniform electric and
magnetic fields, time varying electric and magnetic fields, Applications of Plasma.
Introduction to Laser and Optical Fiber
Spontaneous and stimulated emission, Einstein’s A-B coefficient, meta-stable state, population inversion,
basic principle of laser (three and four level), optical cavity and resonator, Ruby and He-Ne laser. Propagation
of light in fiber, step and graded index fiber, numerical aperture, attenuation in optical fiber, introduction of
optical window, application of laser and optical fiber.
Relativity
Reference Frames, Lorentz Transformation, Postulates of Relativity, Relativistic Mass & Mass-Energy
Equivalence.
Reference Books
a) Plasma Physics and Controlled Fusion, Francis F. Chen, Springer Pub.
b) Lasers, Fundamentals and Applications, K. Thyagrajan, A. Ghatak, Springer Pub.
c) K. Huang, Statistical Mechanics.
d) D.C. Tayal, Nuclear Physics, 4th edition, Himalaya House, Bombay.
e) Kittel, Introduction solid State Physics, Willy Eastern Limited.
f) A.K.Ghatak and S.Lokanathan, Quantum Mechanics, Macmillan India Limited.
g) B.K. Agarwal, Elements of Statistical Mechanics.
h) Quantum Physics of Atoms, Molecules, Solids, Nuclei and Particles, R. Eisberg and Resnick, Wiley
India Pvt. Ltd.
* * * * *
Page No - 17 of 67

--- Page 18 ---
BSMS 2nd Semester
[Compulsory]
Basic Environmental and Atmospheric Science
Introduction to Environmental Sciences
Introduction to the Environment. Acquisition, transformation and utilization of energy: the geochemical,
biogeochemical and hydrological cycles. Concept of ecosystem.
Biodiversity
Problems and issues in biodiversity and forestry. Conservation and utilization of biodiversity. Global warming
and climate change. Recent records of climate change. Impact of climate change on Indian environment.
Measures to cope with climate change. Mineral and energy resources. Impact of mining and other human
activities on the environment.
Environmental impact assessment and environmental audit: an introduction. Environmental policy matters and
law.
Environmental Pollution and Health
Air pollution: Composition of pollutants and sources. Disease associated with their Pollutants. Air quality
monitoring, National and international standards for monitoring air quality. Quality of indoor air and its effect
on health. Ventilation: standards, methods and health hazards. Analysis of gas effluents, SO , NOx ,CO etc.
2 2
Water Pollution
Sources and types of water pollutants; Ground water and surface water pollution; Sampling and analysis and
measurement of water; Water quality standards; Effects on aquatic ecosystem, Heavy metal (Arsenic,
Cadmium, Lead, Mercury, fluoride, nitrate) analysis with respect to health significance. Disease related to
these pollutants. Measurement of DO, BOD and COD.
Soil Pollution
Introduction, Major routes of soil pollution. Some important pollutants in soil. Diseases related to soil
pollution.
Noise pollution:
Sound wave ants its characteristics: Hearing of sound. Measurement of noise level, Noise levels at different
sources, Effects of noise on human health.
Industrial Pollution
Introduction, characterization of industrial wastes present in Effluents, Types of industrial wastes in Effluents,
Treatment and disposal of industrial Effluents.
Radiation Pollution
Introduction, Nature of radioactive Emission, Units for measurement of radioactivity and radiation. Effects of
radiation on Human Health. Radioactive Fallout.
Page No - 18 of 67

--- Page 19 ---
Pollution from Agriculture – Pesticides and Fertilisers
General aspects and classification. Major disasters from pesticides and herbicides, Fertilizers and
environmental hazards from fertilizers.
Pollution control in India
Government obligation, mechanism and legislation in the context of public health.
Green Chemistry:
Introduction, Principle and Concepts of Green Chemistry
What is green Chemistry? Need for green chemistry; inception and evolution of green chemistry; twelve
principles of green chemistry with their explanations and examples; designing a green synthesis using these
principles; green chemistry in day to day life.
Reference Books
a) Anjaneyulu. Y, 2004, Introduction to Environmental Science. B. S. Publications.
b) D. Daniel Chiras, 2001, Environmental Science, 6th Ed., Jones and Bartlett Publishers.
c) De, A. K., Environmental chemistry, 5th Ed., 2005, New Age International (P) Ltd., New Delhi.
d) Subramanian. V, 2002, A text book in Environmental Science, Narosa Publishing House, New Delhi.
e) Wright. R.T, and Nebel. B. J, 2004, Environmental Science, 8th Ed. Prentice Hall India Ltd.
f) Asim K. Das, Environmental Chemistry with Green Chemistry, Books and allied (P) Ltd.
g) Leslie collier, Balows Albert and Sussman Max, Topley and Wilson’s Microbiology and Microbial
infections. Oxford University Press.
h) Murray J.F. and Nadel. J.A., 2000, Text book of respiratory medicine, 3rd Edn., W.B. Saunders & Co.
i) Park. J.E. and Park. K., 1994, Text book of preventive and social medicine, Banarsi Das & Bhanot,
Jabalpur.
j) Green Chemistry, theory and practice. Paul T. Anastas and John C. Warner.
k) Asim K. Das, Environmental Chemistry with Green Chemistry, Books and allied (P) Ltd.
l) Organic Synthesis in Water, Paul A. Grieco Blackie.
* * * * *
BSMS 2nd Semester
[Compulsory]
Physics Lab-II
Experiment 1: Determination of damping constant of the Pohl’s pendulum for different eddy damping
current. Estimation of the natural frequency of the Pohl’s pendulum.
Experiment 2: Determination of the co-efficient of viscosity of a liquid from its rate of flow through a
capillary tube.
Experiment 3: To construct a one ohm coil.
Experiment 4: Determination of the frequency of a tuning fork by Melde’s Apparatus.
Experiment 5: Determination of Acceleration due to Gravity (g) by a Kater’s pendulum.
Page No - 19 of 67

--- Page 20 ---
Experiment 6: Determination of moment of inertia of a body about an axis passing through its centre of
gravity and perpendicular to its length.
Experiment 7: Measuring unknown wavelength of a laser with a diffraction grating.
* * * * *
BSMS 2nd Semester
[Compulsory]
Chemistry Lab-II
Experiment 1: To determine the viscosity of aqueous solution of ethanol/glycerol/amyl alcohol.
Experiment 2: To determine the surface tension of a given solution of aqueous solutions of NaCl/acetic acid.
Experiment 3:. Verification of Lambert-Beer’s law.
Experiment 4: To determine the specific reaction rate constant of the acid catalyzed hydrolysis of methyl
acetate/ethyl acetate at room temperature.
Experiment 5: Determination of Fe(II), Fe(III), Cu(II), Ca( II), Mg(II), Zn(II) and Cl– in their respective
compounds volumetrically through redox, precipitation and complexometric titrations.
Experiment 6: Determination of hardness of water.
Experiment 7: Determination of functional groups in organic compounds.
Reference Books
a) Vogel’s Textbook of Qualitative Inorganic Analysis, 5th Ed., ELBS with Longman.
b) W.G. Palmer, Experimental Inorganic chemistry, Cambridge University Press (1962).
* * * * *
Page No - 20 of 67

--- Page 21 ---
BSMS 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Introduction to Differential Equation
Ordinary Differential Equation (ODE)
Introduction
Introduction, Formation of ODE, Significance of ODE, geometrical and physical consideration. Solution of
ODE in separable form.
First Order ODE
Exact and non-exact differential equations, simultaneous equations. First order linear equations. Bernoulli’s
equation. First order higher degree equations solvable for x, y, and p. Clairaut’s form and singular solutions.
Second Order ODE
Linear differential equations with constant coefficients. Homogeneous and non-homogeneous linear ordinary
differential equations. Linear differential equations of higher order. Complementary function. Method of
Undetermined Coefficients.
Partial Differential Equation (PDE)
Introduction
Origin of PDE, Order, degree, linear, non-linear. Surfaces and curves, classification of first order P.D.E.,
quasi-linear equations. Derivation of PDE.
Linear PDE
Solutions of Linear PDE of order one: Lagrange’s solution (Type 1, Type 2, Type 3, and Type 4).
Non-linear PDE
Complete integral, Particular integral, Singular integral, General integral. Solution of Non-linear PDE:
Charpit’s method.
Reference Books
a) W. E. Boyce and R. C. DiPrima, Elementary Differential Equations and Boundary Value Problems,
9th Edn., Wiley India, 2009.
b) E. A. Coddington, An Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations, Prentice Hall India, 2012.
c) E. A. Coddington; An Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations; PHI Learning 1999.
d) M. Braun, Differential Equations and Their Applications, 3rd Ed., Springer-Verlag, 2016.
e) T. Amarnath, An Elementary Course in Partial Differential Equations, 2nd Edn, 2003.
f) P. Hartman; Ordinary Differential Equations; John Wiley and sons, New York, 1964.
g) M. Hirsch, S. Smale and R. Deveney; Differential Equations, Dynamical Systems and Introduction to
Chaos; Academic Press, 3rd Edn, 2012.
h) I. N. Sneddon: Elements of Partial Differential Equations, Dover, 2006.
i) S. L. Ross, Differential Equations, 3rd Ed., Wiley India, 2007.
j) R. Haberman, Elementary Applied Partial Differential equations with Fourier Series and Boundary
Value Problem, 4th Ed., Prentice Hall, 2019.
k) L. C. Evans; Partial Differential Equations; American Mathematical Society, Rhode Island, 2012.
l) F. John; Partial Differential Equations; Narosa Publishing House, New Delhi, 1979.
m) M.D. Raisinghania, Ordinary and Partial Differential Equation, S. Chand, 20th Edn, 2020.
Page No - 21 of 67

--- Page 22 ---
n) P. Hartman; Ordinary Differential Equations; John Wiley and sons, New York, 1964.
* * * * * *
BSMS 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
3D Geometry
Plane Geometry
Transformation of rectangular axes, translation, rotation and their combinations, theory of invariants, general
equation of 2nd degree in two variables, reduction into canonical form, length and position of the axes. Pair of
straight lines, circles and conic referred to a focus as pole, equation of chord, tangent, normal.
Rectangular cartesian coordinates in space, cylindrical, polar and spherical polar co-ordinates in 3 dimensions,
concept of geometric vector, distance between two points. Division of a directed line segment in a given ratio.
Equation of a plane in general form, intercept and normal form, signed distance of a point from a plane,
equation of a plane passing through intersection of two planes, angle between two intersecting planes, parallel
and perpendicularity of two planes.
Straight Lines
Straight lines in a space, equation in symmetric and parametric form, canonical equation of a line of intersection
of two intersecting planes, angle between two lines, distance of a point from a line, coplanar lines, skew-lines,
shortest distance. General equation of a sphere, circle, sphere through a given circle, sphere through intersection
of two spheres, radical plane, tangent, normal.
Conicoids
Cone, right circular cone, enveloping and reciprocal cone. Cylinder: Right circular cylinder and enveloping
cylinder. Central Conicoids: Equation of tangent plane. Director sphere, Normal to the conicoids. Polar plane of
a point. Enveloping cone of a conicoid. Enveloping cylinder of a conicoid. Paraboloids: Circular section, Plane
sections of conicoids. Generating lines. Confocal conicoid. Reduction of second degree equations in 3 variables
in canonical form.
Space Curves
Curves in two and three dimensions. Parameterized curves, re-parameterizations. Regular and singular points.
Curvature and torsion for space curves. Existence theorem for space curves. Serret-Frenet formula for space
curves.
Reference Books
a) S.L.Lony, Co-ordinate Geometry, Macmillan and co.2010
b) Dr. P.K. Mittal & Shanti Narayan, Analytical Solid Geometry, S. Chand. 2005
c) S.B.Sengupta, Co-ordinate Geometry and Vector Analysis, Joy Durga Library.2014
d) Ajay Kumar, Ravi Prakash, Usha Gupta, Co-Ordinate Geometry (2-D and 3-D), McGraw Hill
Education, First edition, 2016.
e) N.P. Bali, Golden Co-Ordinate Geometry, Laxmi Publications, Second edition, 2013.
* * * * * *
Page No - 22 of 67

--- Page 23 ---
BSMS 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Introduction to Real Line
Numbers
Axioms for R. The supremum principle. The Natural numbers, integers, roots, rational and irrational
numbers, extended real numbers, finite and infinite sets. Newton’s Binomial theorem. Bounded
subset of R, L.U.B. (supremum) and G.L.B. (infimum) of a set. Least upper bound axiom.
Characterization of R as a complete ordered field. Definition of an Archimedean ordered field.
Archimedean property of R. Ordered completeness.
Neighbourhoods and Some Properties
Limit points of a set and isolated point of a set, closed sets, dense sets, countable and uncountable
sets. Neighbourhood of a point, interior point. Open set, union, intersection of open sets. Bolzano-
Weierstrass theorem.
Real Sequences
Sequence, limit points of a sequence, limit inferior, limit superior, convergent sequence, non-
convergent sequences, Cauchy’s general principle of convergences, algebra of sequence, monotonic
sequences, Sandwich rule. Nested interval theorem. Covering and compactness, Heine Borel theorem.
Function of Single Variable
Limits, continuous function, uniform continuity, Rolle’s theorem, Lagrange’s mean value theorem,
Cauchy mean value theorem, derivatives.
Fourier Series
Basic of Fourier series and some problems.
Riemann Integration
Riemann integration on [a, b]. Darboux’s approach and Darboux’s theorem, R-integrability of sum,
product and quotient. R-integrability of monotone functions, continuous functions and discontinuous
functions. Function defined by definite integral and its properties. Primitives or indefinite integrals.
First mean value theorem of integral calculus. Second mean value theorem of integral calculus (both
Bonet’s and Weierstrass’s forms).
Reference Books
a) K.R. Stromberg,Introduction to Classical Real Analysis, Wadsworth International, 2019.
b) J.M. Howie, A First Course in Real Analysis, Springer, 2001.
c) H.L. Royden and Patrick Fitzpatrick,Real Analysis, 4th Edn, 2010.
d) Robert G. Bartle , Donald R. Sherbert, Introduction to Real Analysis, 4th Edn, 2011.
e) S. C. Malik,Principles of Real Analysis, New Age International Publishers, 5th Edn, 2017.
f) S. K. Mapa,Introduction to Real Analysis, Sarat Impressions Pvt. Ltd, 8th Edn, 2019.
g) M. D. Raisinghania, Shanti Narayan, Elements of Real Anyalsis , S. Chand Group. 2003
* * * * * *
Page No - 23 of 67

--- Page 24 ---
BSMS 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Probability and Statistics
Probability
Introduction
Random experiment, σ-field, sample space, probability as a set function, probability axioms,
probability space. Finite sample spaces. Independence, conditional probability, Bayes theorem, Real
random variables (discrete and continuous), cumulative distribution function, probability mass
functions, probability density functions, mathematical expectation, moments, moment generating
function, characteristic function.
Discrete Distributions
Uniform. Binomial. Poisson. Geometric. Negative binomial.
Continuous Distributions
Uniform. Normal. Exponential
Joint Distribution Function
Joint cumulative distribution function and its properties, joint probability density functions,
marginal and conditional distributions, expectation of function of two random variables, moments,
covariance, correlation coefficient, independent random variables, joint moment generating function
(JMGF) and calculation of covariance from JMGF, characteristic function. Conditional
expectations, linear regression for two variables, regression curves. Bivariate normal distribution.
Statistics
Introduction
Markov and Chebyshev’s inequality. Convergence in Probability. Statement and interpretation of
weak law of large numbers and strong law of large numbers. Central limit theorem for independent
and identically distributed random variables with finite variance.
Sampling and Sampling Distributions
Populations and samples. Random sample. Distribution of the sample. Simple random sampling
with and without replacement. Sample characteristics.
Sampling Distributions
Statistic, sample moments, sample variance, sampling from the normal distributions, Chi-square, t
and F-distributions.
Estimation of Parameters
Point estimation and interval estimation. Mean-squared error. Properties of good estimators -
unbiasedness, consistency, sufficiency, Minimum-Variance Unbiased Estimator (MVUE).
Page No - 24 of 67

--- Page 25 ---
Method of Maximum Likelihood
Likelihood function, ML estimators for discrete and continuous models.
Bivariate Frequency Distribution
Bivariate data, scatter diagram, correlation, linear regression, principle of least squares and fitting of
polynomials and exponential curves
Reference Books
a) William Feller, An introduction to Probability Theory and its Application, Volume 1, 3e.2008
b) Robert V. Hogg, Joseph W. McKean and Allen T. Craig, Introduction to Mathematical
Statistics, Pearson Education, Asia, 2013.
c) R. L. Berger and G. Casella, Statistical Inference, 2015.
d) S.C. Gupta and V. K. Kapoor; “Fundamentals of mathematical Statistics”, Sultan Chand &
Sons publication, 2014.
e) N.G. Das; “Statistical Methods—Combined edition (vol. I & II)”, Mc. Graw Hill Education,
2017.
* * * * *
BSMS 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Programming in C (Theory and Lab)
Introduction
Review of basic concepts of C-programming, further data types, structures, defining new data types. Unions.
Coercion or Type-Casting, types, static, pointers, pointer and functions, pointers and arrays, arrays of pointers,
multidimensional, arrays and pointers. Static initialization of pointer arrays, pointers and structures, common
pointer pitfalls, exercise.
The C Preprocessor
#define, #undef, #include, #if -- conditional inclusion, preprocessor compiler control, other preprocessor
commands.
Input and Output (I/O)
stdio.h, Reporting Errors, perror( ), errno, exit( ), Streams. Predefined Streams. Redirection. Basic I/O.
Formatted I/O. Printf. scanf, Files, reading and writing files, sprintf and sscanf, stream, status Enquiries. Low
Level I/O, exercises.
Cell Arrays and Structures
Cell array creation, its manipulation, retrieving cell array content, comma separated list, cell functions, cell
array of strings, structure creation, structure manipulation, structure functions. Character string: String
construction, string evaluation, string functions, cell array of strings.
Page No - 25 of 67

--- Page 26 ---
Relational and Logical Operations
Relational and logical operators, relational and logical functions. Nans and empty, operator precedence. Control
flow: For loops, while loops, if else end construction, switch case construction, try catch blocks.
Reference Books
a) B. Kernighan and D. Ritchie, The C Programming Language Prentice Hall, India, 2015.
b) V. Rajaraman, Computer Progmamming in C, Prentice Hall, India, 2nd Edn, 2019.
c) Subrata Saha, Subhodip Mukherjee,Basic Computation and Programming with C, Cambridge
University Press, 1st edition, 2017.
d) Reema Thareja, Programming in C, OUP India, 2nd edition, 2018.
e) Ajay Mittal, Programming in C, Pearson Education, First edition, 2010.
* * * * * *
Page No - 26 of 67

--- Page 27 ---
BSMS 4th Semester
[Compulsory]
Data Mining and Ware Housing
Introduction & Data Mining Algorithms
Introduction to data mining and knowledge discovery. Relation to statistics. databases, data mining
functionalities, steps in data mining process, architecture of a typical data mining systems, classification of
data mining systems, overview of data mining techniques, data preprocessing, data cleaning, data integration,
data transformation and data reduction, data generalization and summarization based characterization.
Web Mining
Mining association rules in large databases, classification and prediction, issues regarding classification and
prediction, classification by decision tree induction, Bayesian classification, other classification methods,
prediction, clusters analysis, types of data in cluster analysis, Categorization of major clustering methods.
Partitioning Methods. Hierarchical Methods.
Visualization
Web content mining, web structure mining, web usage mining. spatial mining, temporal mining.
Overview and Concepts
Need for data warehousing, basic elements of data warehousing. Trends in data warehousing.
Planning and Requirements
Project planning and management. Collecting the requirements. Architecture & Infrastructure: Architectural
components, infrastructure and metadata.
Data Design and Data Representation
Principles of dimensional modelling, dimensional modelling advanced topics, data extraction, transformation
and loading, data quality. Information Access & Delivery: Matching information to classes of users, OLAP in
data warehouse, Data warehousing and the web. Implementation And Maintenance: Physical design process,
data warehouse.
Reference Books
a) Margaret Dunham, “Data Mining: Introductory and Advanced Topics”, Prentice Hall, 2006.
b) Adriaans, P. (1996), Data mining, Addison-Wesley.
c) Paulraj Ponnian, “Data Warehousing Fundamentals”, John Wiley, 2nd Edn, 2012.
d) W.H. Inmon, “Building the Data Warehouses”, Wiley Dreamtech, 3rd Edn, 2002.
e) M.H. Dunham, “Data Mining Introductory and Advanced Topics”, Pearson Education, 2006.
f) Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber, Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques, Morgan
Kaufmann Publishers, 3rd Edn, 2011.
* * * * * *
Page No - 27 of 67

--- Page 28 ---
BSMS 4th Semester
[Compulsory]
Introduction to Algebra
Abstract Algebra
Groups, Permutation Group, Symmetric group, Subgroups, Coset, Normal Subgroup, Centralizers,
Normalizers, Stabilizers, Kernels, Cyclic groups, Subgroups generated by a subset of a group, Quotient
groups, Lagrange’s theorem, Homomorphisms, Isomorphism theorems, Composition series, Epimorphism,
Endomorphism, Automorphisms, Rings, Ring homomorphisms, Boolean Ring, Ideal, Quotient ring, Ring
embeddings, Integral Domain, Properties, Fields with examples, Characteristic of a field, Properties of Field.
Linear Algebra
Vector spaces, Bases and dimensions, Change of bases and change of coordinates, Sums and direct sums,
Spanning sets and independence, the dimension of a vector space, Existence of eigen values, eigen vectors,
eigen space, generalized eigenvectors. The complexification of a real vector space, Quotient spaces. Linear
transformations. The kernel and image of a linear transformation, The rank and nullity theorem, change of
bases for linear transformations.
Reference Books
a) Axler, S., Linear Algebra Done Right, 2nd edn. Springer International Student Edition (1997).
b) Hoffman, K., Kunze, R., Linear Algebra, 2nd edn. Prentice Hall Int. Inc., Englewood Cliffs (1971)
c) S. Lang, Algebra 3rd Edition, Addison-Wesley, 1999.
d) J. A. Gallian, Contemporary Abstract Algebra, 4th Ed., Narosa, 1999.
e) M. Artin, Algebra, Prentice Hall inc 1994.
f) I. N. Herstein, Topics in Algebra, John-Wiley, 1995.
g) M. T. Nair and A. Singh, Linear Algebra, Springer, 2018.
h) D. S. Dummit and R. M. Foote, Abstract Algebra, 2nd Edition, John-Wiley, 1999.
* * * * * *
BSMS 4th Semester
[Compulsory]
LPP and Game Theory
Linear Programming
Lines and hyperplanes, convex sets, convex hull and their properties. Formulation of a linear
programming problem, theorems dealing with vertices of feasible regions and optimality. Graphical
solution. Simplex method (including Big M method and two phase method), infeasible and
unbounded LPPs, alternate optima, dual problem and duality theorems, dual simplex method and its
application in post optimality analysis, revised simplex method. Sensitivity analysis - parametric
programming.
Page No - 28 of 67

--- Page 29 ---
Transportation problem
Introduction, existence of solution, degeneracy, MODI method (including the theory). Assignment
problem. Hungarian method for solving assignment problems. Travelling salesman problem.
Theory of Games
Introduction, Minimax (maximin), criterion and optimal strategy, solution of games with saddle
points, Rectangular games without saddle points – – dominance principle –
n games –graphical method.
Reference Books
a) Kambo, Mathematical Programming Techniques, East-West Publi., Delhi.
b) Kanti Swarupet. al., Operations Research, Sultan Chand and Co., 2010,
c) S. D. Sharma , Operations Research, Kedarnath, 7th Edn, 1976.
d) J. K. Sharma, Operation Research, MacMilan, 6th Edn.
e) Hiller and Libermann, Introduction to Operation Research, TMH, 10th Edn, 2017.
f) Wayne L.Winston, Operation Research, Thomson BrooCole., 2009.
g) H.A.Taha, An Introduction to Operations Research, PHI, 9th Edn, 2014.
h) J. G. Chakravorty and P. R. Ghosh, Linear Programming and Game theory, Moulik
Library,2020.
* * * * * *
BSMS 4th Semester
[Compulsory]
Mathematical Logic and Numerical Analysis
Mathematical Logic (25 marks)
General Notions
Formal language, object and meta language, general definition of a Formal Theory & Formal Logic.
Propositional Logic
Formal theory for propositional calculus, derivation, proof, theorem, deduction theorem, conjunctive and
disjunctive normal forms, semantics, truth tables, tautology, adequate set of connectives, applications to
switching circuits, logical consequence, consistency, maximal consistency, Leindenbaum lemma, soundness
and completeness theorems, algebraic semantics.
Predicate Logic
First order language, symbolizing ordinary sentences into first order formulae, free and bound variables,
interpretation and satisfiability, models, logical validity, formal theory for predicate calculus, theorems and
Page No - 29 of 67

--- Page 30 ---
derivations, deduction theorem, equivalence theorem, replacement theorem, choice rule, Prenex normal form,
soundness theorem, completeness theorem, compactness theorem, First order theory with equality, examples
of first order theories (groups, rings, fields etc.).
Combinatorics (25 marks)
Overview of (Recurrence relation, Fibonacci – type relations, Generating functions. Inclusion- Exclusion
principles). Rook polynomials, permutation groups, Polya’s Theorem, finite fields, Latin squares, errors.
Codes
Linear codes, error-corrections codes, hamming on error, correction codes, balanced in complete block design.
Algebra for digital system
Logic gates, simplification Boolean expression by Veitech-Karnaugh map method combinational switching
circuit: Its design procedure, implementing combinational logic circuit.
Numerical Analysis (50 marks)
Errors in Numerical Computation
Sources of errors and estimations, propagation of errors, backward error analysis, sensitivity and conditioning,
stability, accuracy, precision floating-point arithmetic.
Numerical Solution of Non-Linear Equations
Bisection method. Fixed point iteration method. Regula-Falsi and Newton-Raphson methods.
Interpolation
Newton’s forward and backward interpolation formulae. Stirling’s and Bessel’s interpolation formulae.
Lagrange’s and Divided difference interpolation formula. Inverse interpolation. Numerical Differentiation.
Numerical Integration
Newton-Cote’s formula. Trapezoidal, Simpson’s 1 / rd. Simpson’s 3 / th and Weddle’s formulae.
3 8
Numerical Solution of a System of Linear Equations
Gauss elimination method, Gauss Jacobi and Gauss-Seidal iteration method.
Numerical Solution or Ordinary Differential Equation
Taylor series method, Picards Method, Euler and modified Euler methods.
Reference Books
a) James L. Buchanan and Peter R. Turner, Numerical Methods and Analysis (McGraw-Hill),
1992.
b) John H. Mathews, Numerical Methods for Mathematics, Science and Engineering (Prentice- Hall) 2nd
edition, 1992.
c) Kendall E. Atkinson, An Introduction to Numerical Analysis (John Wiley and Sons), 2nd
Edn.2012
d) M. K. Jain, S. R. K. Iyengar, R. K. Jain, Numerical Methods for Scientific and Engineering
Competition (Wiley Eastern), 6th Edn, 2012.
e) S. S. Sastry, Introductory methods of numerical analysis, 5th Edition, (PHI), 2012.
Page No - 30 of 67

--- Page 31 ---
f) Elliott Mendelson, Introduction to mathematical logic, Chapman & Hall, London, 5th Edn,
1997.
g) Angelo Margaris, First order mathematical logic, Dover publications, Inc, New York (1990).
h) S. C. Kleene, Introduction to Metamathematics, Amsterdam, Elsevier (1952).
i) J. H. Gallier, Logic for Computer Science, John.Wiley& Sons (1987).
j) H.B.Enderton, A mathematical introduction to logic, Academic Press, New York (1972).
* * * * * *
BSMS 4th Semester
[Compulsory]
Number Theory and Cryptology
Number Theory
Basis Representation
Principles of mathematical induction. The basis representation theorem. The fundamental theorem of
arithmetic: Euclid’s division lemma. Divisibility. The linear Diophantine equation. The fundamental theorem
of arithmetic.
Combinatorial and Computational Number Theory
Fermat’s little theorem, Wilson’s theorem, Generating functions, The use of computers in number theory,
Fundamentals of congruences, Basic properties of congruences, residue systems, riffling.
Solving Congruences
Linear congruences. The Theorems of Fermat and Wilson revisited. The Chinese remainder theorem.
Polynomial congruences.
Arithmatic Functions
Combinatorial study of ∅(n), formulae for d(n) and ∅(n), multiplicative arithmetic functions. The Mobius
inversion formula, primitive roots. Properties of reduced residue systems. Primitive root modulo p.
Cryptology
Introduction
Basic objects of Cryptography, secret-key and public-key cryptography, one way and trapdoor one-way
functions. Cryptanalysis attack models. Classical cryptography.
Block and Stream Ciphers
Modes of operation, DES and its variants, RCS, IDEA, SAFER, FEAL, Blow Fish, AES, linear and
differential cryptanalysis. Stream ciphers based on linear feedback shift registers, SEAL, Unconditional
security
Page No - 31 of 67

--- Page 32 ---
Message Digest
Properties of Hash function, MD2, MD5 and SHA-1, keyed hash function, attack on hash function.
Public Key Parameters
Modular arithmetic, GCD, Primality testing. Modular square root, finite fields.
Intractable Problems
Integer fatorisation problem. RSA problem, Modular square root problem, discrete logarithm problem. Diffie-
Hellman problem, known algorithm for solving the intractable Problems.
Public Key Encryption
RSA, Rabin and EIGamal scemes, side channel attacks, Key Exchange: Diffie-Hellman and MQV algorithms.
Reference Books
a) Douglas R. Stinson, Cryptography, Theory & Practice, Second Edition, CRC Press, 4th Edn, 2018.
b) Alfred J. Menezes, Paul C. Van Oorschot And Scott A. Vanstone, Handbook of Applied Cryptography,
CRC Press, 1996.
c) Johannes. A. Buchmann, Introduction to Cryptography, Springer, September 2000.
d) Steven D. Galbraith, Mathematics of Public Key Cryptography, Cambridge university press, 2012.
e) Jonathan Katz, Yehuda Lindell, Introduction to Modern Cryptography, Chapman & Hall/CRC, 2nd
Edn, 2014.
f) Jay R Goldman, The Queen of Mathematics: a historically motivated guide to number theory, A K
Peters Ltd.2020
g) Saban Alaca, Kenneth S Williams, Introduction to Algebraic Number Theory, Cambridge University
Press, 2003.
h) Richard A Mollin, Advanced Number Theory with Applications, CRC Press, A Chapman & Hall
Book.2011
i) Kenneth. H. Rosen, Elementary Number Theory & Its Applications, AT&T Bell Laboratories,
AdditionWesley Publishing Company, 3rd Edition, 2013.
j) Kenneth Ireland & Michael Rosen, A Classical Introduction to Modern Number Theory, 2nd edition;
Springer-verlag. 1998
* * * * * *
Page No - 32 of 67

--- Page 33 ---
BSMS 5th Semester
[Compulsory]
Data Structure and Algorithm
Basic Concepts
Mathematical Background; Complexity Analysis; Arrays: one dimensional, multi-dimensional,
Sparse Matrix, Elementary Operations; Asymptotic notations- o, O, θ, Θ, ω, Ω and their properties.
Preliminaries
Growth of functions, recurrence relation, generating functions, solution of difference equations,
Master's theorem (without proof). Sorting and Order Statistics: Bubblesort, mergesort, heapsort,
quicksort, sorting in linear time, median and order statistics.
Linear Data Structure
Stacks: Representation, elementary operations and applications such as infix to postfix, postfix
evaluation, parenthesis matching; Queues: Simple queue, circular queue, dequeue, elementary
operations and applications; Linked lists: Linear, circular and doubly linked lists, elementary
operations and applications such as polynomial manipulation.
Non - Linear Data Structure
Trees: Binary tree representation, tree traversal, complete binary tree, heap, binary search tree, height
balanced trees like AVL tree and 2-3 tree, tries, red-black tree, B-tree, other operations and
applications of trees; Graphs: representation, Adjacency list, graph traversal, path matrix, connected
components, DAG, topological sort, Spanning tree; Sorting: Selection sort, bubble sort, quick sort,
merge sort, heap sort, radix sort; Searching: linear and binary search; Hashing: hash tables, hash
functions, open addressing.
File Structures
Introduction, data file types, file organization, file access methods.
Algorithms Design Techniques
Divide-and-conquer method. Greedy method. Dynamics programming technique. Branch-and-bound
method. Examples. Representation of graph in a computer. Binary tree traversals. Spanning tree.
Shortest path problem. NP-Completeness.
Reference Books
a) Alfred V. Aho, Jeffrey D. Ullman, John E. Hopcroft, Data Structures and Algorithms, Addison
Wesley, 1983.
b) M. A. WeiSS, Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in CTT, 3rd Edn, Pearson, Addison Wiesley,
2006.
c) A. M. Tenenbaum, Y. Langsam, and M.J. Augenstein, Data Structures using C, PHI, New Delhi,
2009.
d) S. K. Srivastava, Data Structures Through C in Depth, BPB Publications, 2004.
e) T. H. Cormen, C. E. Leiserson, R. L. Rivest, and C. Stein, Introduction to Algorithms, 3rd Edn, PHI,
New Delhi, 2009.
f) Debasis Samanta, Classical Data Structure, PHI Pvt. Limited. 2011.
* * * * * *
Page No - 33 of 67

--- Page 34 ---
BSMS 5th Semester
[Compulsory]
Soft Computing – I
Introduction
Introduction to Soft Computing, components of Soft Computing. Importance of Soft Computing.
Fuzzy Set Theory
Fuzzy sets, characteristics function and definition of fuzzy sets, 𝑎- level Fuzzy sets, fuzzy point, convex fuzzy
sets, basic operations on fuzzy sets. Cartesian products, algebraic products, bounded sum and difference, t-
norms and t-co norms, quasi-coincidence of two fuzzy subsets. Fuzzy numbers, triangular fuzzy numbers.
Fuzzy Optimization
Linear Programming Problems with Fuzzy Resources: Verdegay’s approach and Werner’s approach. L.P.P.
with fuzzy resources and objectives.
Zimmermann’s approach, L.P.P with fuzzy parameters in the objective function. Fuzzy multi-objective Linear
Programming Problem. Methodologies of solving fuzzy M.O.L.P.
Evolutionary Algorithm
Genetic Algorithms. Evolution Strategies. Evolutionary Programming. Genetic Programming. Differential
Evolution and modified methods. Ant Colony Optimization, Particle Swarm Optimization and some recent
Algorithms.
Reference Books
a) Jang J.S.R, Sun C.T. and Mizutani E. Neuro Fuzzy and Soft Computing, 1997.
b) Ama Haykin. An Introduction to Neural Networks.2008
c) Klir and Yuan, Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic Goldberg. Genetic Algorithms.
d) S. N. Sivanandam, S.N.Deepa, Principles of Soft Computing, Wiley Publication, 2011.
e) A. Das Bhattacharjee, Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing for Beginners, 2018.
f) H. J. Zimmermann , Fuzzy Set Theory — and Its Applications, Allied Publisher’s Limited, 2014.
g) George Klir, Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic: Theory and Applications, Pearson, 1995.
h) Robert Babuška, Fuzzy Modelling for Control, International Series in Intelligent
Technologies, Volume 12, 1996.
* * * * * *
BSMS 5th Semester
[Compulsory]
Integral Transform and its application
Integral transform
Basic Concepts and definitions, integral transform operator, kernel of the transformation.
Fourier Transform
Page No - 34 of 67

--- Page 35 ---
Definition & properties of Fourier Transform. Fourier sine and cosine Transform. Convolution Theorem for
Fourier transforms. Parseval’s Identity. Finite Fourier Sine and Cosine Transform. Inversion.
Laplace Transform
Definition and properties. Laplace Transform of some elementary functions. Laplace transform of the
derivatives and integrals. Shifting theorems. Initial and final value theorems. Inverse of Laplace transform.
Convolution theorem. Applications.
Hankel Transform
Definition and properties of Hankel transform with examples. Inversion formula. Basic concept of Bessel’s
equation and Bessel’s function. Recurrence relations of Bessel’s function. Operational properties of Hankel
transform. Parseval’s theorem. Hankel transform of derivatives. Applications.
Mellin Transform
Definition of Mellin transform and examples. Mellin transform of some special functions. Mellin transform of
derivatives and integrals. Parseval’s theorem. Convolution theorem. Applications.
Z-Transform
Definition. Elementary properties. Inverse Z – Transform (Using Partial Fraction and Residues). Convolution
Theorem. Formation of Difference Equations. Solution of Difference Equations Using Z – Transform.
Reference Books
a) I. N. Sneddon, The Uses of Integral Transforms, McGraw-Hill Inc., US, 2020.
b) C. J. Tranter, Integral Transforms.
c) I. N. Sneddon, fourier Transform, 2020.
d) Lovitt, Linear Integral Equations, 2005.
e) Tricomi, Integral Equations, 2012.
f) Andrews & Shivamoggi, Integral transforms for Engineers, 1988.
g) Dr. G. S. Sandhu, Integral Transforms and Their Applications, 2015.
h) L. Debnath & D.Bhatta, Integral Transforms and Their Applications, 2007.
* * * * * *
BSMS 5th Semester
[Compulsory]
Artificial Intelligence
Introduction
What is AI? The foundations of AI. Importance of AI and related fields.
Review on Logic
Propositional and predicate logic, representation atoms, connectives, literals, CNF, DNF and
casual form, interpretation and model, satisfiability, resolution principle and unification.
Rules
Working memory, rule base, conflict set, conflict resolution strategies, backward and forward
chaining, meta rules.
Page No - 35 of 67

--- Page 36 ---
Reasoning Under Uncertainty
Basic probability notation, probabilistic reasoning, Bayesian networks, certainty factor methods,
Dempster-Shafer theory.
ANN
Neural Networks: Overview of biological Neuro-system, Mathematical models of neurons, ANN architecture,
Learning rules; Learning paradigms - Supervised, Unsupervised and Reinforcement learning; ANN training
algorithms - perceptions, Training rules, Delta, Back propagation algorithm; Multilayer perceptron model;
Applications of artificial neural networks; Competitive learning networks; Kohonen self organizing networks;
Hebbian learning; Hopfield networks; Associative memories.
Reference Books
a) Jang J.S.R, Sun C.T. and Mizutani E. Neuro Fuzzy and Soft Computing,1997.
b) Ama Haykin. An Introduction to Neural Networks.
c) Klir and Yuan, Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic Goldberg. Genetic Algorithms.
d) S. N. Sivanandam, S.N.Deepa, Principles of Soft Computing, Wiley Publication, 2011.
e) A.Das Bhattacharjee, Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing for Beginners, 2018.
f) Artificial Intelligence by E Rich and K Knight, McGraw-Hill, 2008.
g) Artificial Intelligence (3rd Ed) PH Winston, Addison-Wesley, 1992.
h) Introduction of Artificial Intelligence and expert systems by DW Patterson, PHI,1990.
i) Artificial Intelligence a Modern Approach-Stuart Russell, Peter Norvig, PHI, 2013.
j) Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing by A. Konar, CRC Press 2000.
k) R2. Golub, G.,H., and Van Loan,C., F., Matrix Computations, JHU Press,2013.
l) R1. Yegnanarayana, B., Artificial Neural Networks PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd, 2009.
* * * * * *
BSMS 5th Semester
[Compulsory]
Statics and Dynamics
Statics
Preliminary concepts
Parallel forces, Couples, Reduction of coplanar forces. Analytical conditions of equilibrium of
coplanar forces.
Friction
Friction, laws of friction, limiting friction, equilibrium of a particle in rough inclined plane.
Virtual Work
Principle of virtual work in two dimensions. Stable and unstable equilibrium, Common catenary
and catenary of uniform strength.
Stable and Unstable Equilibrium
Definition, Energy Test of Stability, Stability of a system, Examples.
Centre of Gravity
Centre of gravity of a plane area, arc and sector of a curve. C. G. of solids and surface of revolution.
Page No - 36 of 67

--- Page 37 ---
Dynamics
Dynamics-I
Simple Harmonic Motion, damped vibrations, forced vibration, damped forced oscillations, elastic
string, Hook’s law, Tangent and normal acceleration. Velocity and acceleration along radial and
transverse directions, Central orbits, central forces, motion of a particle under central force.
Differential equation in polar and pedal coordinates, velocity under central force. Apse, apsidal
distance and apsidal angle.
Dynamics- II
Kepler’s laws of planetary motion, artificial satellites, Escape velocity, Geo stationary satellite
Disturbed orbits, Motion in resisting medium. Motion of particle of varying mass, Motion of a
particle in three dimensions. Accelerations in terms of different coordinates, Moment Ellipsoid,
equimomental system, principle axis. D’Alemberts principle, D’Alembert’s equation of motion,
principles of conservation of linear and angular momentum. Independence of the motion of center of
inertia and the motion relative to the center of inertia. Principle of conservation of energy, Equation
of motion of a rigid body about a fixed axis, expression for kinetic energy and moment of momentum
of a rigid body moving about a fixed axis. Compound pendulum, interchangeability of the point of
suspension and the point of oscillation, simple equivalent pendulum, Equation of motion of a rigid
body moving in two dimension, expression for kinetic energy and the angular momentum about the
origin of a rigid body moving in two dimension. Equation of motion under impulsive forces.
Reference Books
a) Rao, S. Engineering Mechanics, Statics and Dynamics (Pearson Education, 2008.
b) A text book on statics, M.Ray-S.Chand, 1995.
c) Chakroborty and Ghosh, Dynamics of Particle and Rigid Bodies, U.N.Dhur and Sons, 1982.
d) S. L. Lony, Dynamics of a Particle and of Rigid Bodies, Radha Publishing House, 2009.
e) Loney, S. L., Elements of Statics & Dynamics, Part I, Maxford Books, 2003.
f) S. A. Mollah, Numerical Analysis, New Central Book Agency, 2011.
g) M. Ray- A text book on statics, S. Chand, 1995.
h) S. Pradhan, S. Sinha, Analytical Statics, Academic Publishers, 2013.
i) Loney, S. L., Elements of Statics & Dynamics, Part I, Maxford Books, 2003.
j) Rao, S. Engineering Mechanics, Statics and Dynamics, Pearson Education, 2008.
* * * * * *
Page No - 37 of 67

--- Page 38 ---
BSMS 6th Semester
[Compulsory]
Numerical Methods
Solution of System of Linear and Nonlinear Equations
Triangular factorization, relaxation method. Roots of Polynomial equations: Sensitivity of Polynomial Roots,
Steffenson’s method, Bairstows method of quadratic factors, Graeffe’s root squaring method.
Matrices and Eigen Value Problem
LU decomposition of matrices, Power method of extreme eigen values, Jacobis method for symmetric
matrices.
Interpolation
Hermite interpolation, Spline interpolation – cubic splines, least square approximation to discrete data.
Integration
Gaussian Legendre and Gaussain Chebyshev’s quadrature, Richardson’s extrapolation, Euler Maclaurins sum
formula, Romberg integration.
Differential Equations:
First order differential equation: existence, uniqueness, stability of solution, Euler’s method, Multistep
predictor corrector method, Runge Kutta method.
Reference Books
a) James L. Buchanan and Peter R. Turner: Numerical Methods and Analysis (McGraw-Hill).1992.
b) John H. Mathews: Numerical Methods for Mathematics, Science and Engineering (Prentice-
Hall) 2nd edition.2002.
c) Kendall E. Atkinson: An Introduction to Numerical Analysis (John Wiley and Sons).2012.
d) M. K. Jain, S. R. K. Iyengar, R. K. Jain : Numerical Methods for Scientific and Engineering
Competition (Wiley Eastern).1986.
e) S. S. Sastry, Introductory methods of numerical analysis,5th Edition,(PHI).2012.
* * * * * *
BSMS 6th Semester
[Compulsory]
Numerical Lab
Experiments to be handled using computer
A Write a C program for Bisection Method
Page No - 38 of 67

--- Page 39 ---
B Write a C program for method of false position and secant method
C Write a C program for Improved Euler’s method
D Write a C program for Euler’s method
E Write a C program for Newton-Raphson method
F Write a C program for Trapezoidal rule of integration
G Write a C program for Simpson’s one-third rule
H Write a C program for Simpson’s three-eighth rule
I Write a C program for Runge-Kutta second and fourth order methods
J Write a C program for Predictor-corrector methods
K Write a C program for Taylor series method
L Write a C program for Finite Element Problem
M Write a C program for Finite Difference Problem
N Write a C program for Newton’s forward and backward interpolation
O Write a C program for Everette’s formula
P Write a C program for Lagrange’s interpolation
Q Write a C program for Numerical differentiation
R Write a C program for Eigen values and eigen vectors
S Write a C program for Method of successive approximation
T Write a C program for Gaussian elimination method
U Write a C program for Gauss-Seidel iterative method
V Write a C program for Inversion of a matrix
Reference Books
a) Numerical Methods And Computer Programming, Anju Khandelwal, Narosa, 2015.
b) C Language and Numerical Methods, C. Xavier, New Age Int. Publishers, 2007.
* * * * * *
BSMS 6th Semester
[Compulsory]
Theory of Computation
Introduction
Introduction to language theory, Alphabets, definition of phrase structure grammar, Production rules,
sentences, sentential forms, language definitions, derivations.
Regular Languages
Definition, Pumping Lemma of regular sets, Chomsky Hierarchy of languages. Iteration theorems. Recursive
and recursively enumerable sets models, Regular languages models: finite state machines (deterministic and
Page No - 39 of 67

--- Page 40 ---
non-deterministic), regular grammars, regular expressions, equivalence of deterministic and non-deterministic
machines and of the three models. Properties: closure, decidability.
Finite Automata
Finite automaton, Deterministic, Non-Deterministic and their equivalence, Equivalence of regular expressions.
Moore and Mealy machines.
Context -Free Languages
Relations between classes of languages, Context Free Grammar, Derivation trees, ambiguity simplification,
Normal forms, applications.
Pushdown Automata
Pushdown automata, definitions, context free languages, construction of PDA for simple CFLs, Linear
bounded automata, Properties: closure, iteration theorems, parsing.
Turing Machines
Turing machines, Introduction to computability, Universal Turing Machines, Types of Turing Machines,
Techniques for construction of Turing machines, Undesirability and Halting Problem.
Reference Books
a) D. S. Malik and M. K. Sen, Discrete mathematical structure: theory and applications, Thomson,
Australia, 2004.
b) K. P. L. Mishra and N. Chandrasekaran, Theory of Computer Science, Prentice Hall of India, New
Delhi, 2001.
c) J. E. Hopcropt and J.D. Ullman; Introduction to Automata Theory, Language and computing, Norasa
Publishing, New Delhi, 2000.
* * * * * *
BSMS 6th Semester
[Compulsory]
Soft Computing-II
Fuzzy Systems
Arithmetic operations on Fuzzy intervals and Fuzzy numbers, Lattice of Fuzzy numbers, L-R representation of
fuzzy numbers, Fuzzy equations.
Generalization and Variants of Fuzzy Sets
Generalization and variants of fuzzy sets : L-fuzzy sets, interval-valued fuzzy sets, Type 2 fuzzy sets,
Intuitionistic fuzzy sets and set operation of Intuitionistic fuzzy sets, The Zadeh’s extension principle.
Fuzzy Logic
Related Definitions, Fuzzy Expert Systems, Fuzzy Inference Rules and Fuzzy Reasoning, Introduction to
Fuzzy logic, Fuzzy rule generation, Linguistic variables.
Page No - 40 of 67

--- Page 41 ---
Hybrid Systems
Neuro-genetic systems, Hybrid Evolutionary Algorithms, Fuzzy Neural Systems.
Reference Books
b) Jang J.S.R, Sun C.T. and Mizutani E. Neuro Fuzzy and Soft Computing, Ama Haykin. An Introduction
to Neural Networks, 1996.
c) Klir and Yuan, Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic Goldberg. Genetic Algorithms, 1995.
d) S. N. Sivanandam, S.N.Deepa, Principles of Soft Computing, Wiley Publication, 2007.
e) A.Das Bhattacharjee, Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing for Beginners, 2018.
f) H.J Zimmermann , Fuzzy Set Theory — and Its Applications, Allied Publisher’s Limited, 1992.
g) George Klir, Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic: Theory and Applications, Pearson, 1995.
h) Robert Babuška, Fuzzy Modelling for Control, International Series in Intelligent Technologies,
Volume 12, 1998.
* * * * * *
BSMS 6th Semester
[Compulsory]
Ordinary Differential Equation
Existence and Uniqueness of Solutions
Existence and uniqueness of solution, Picards theorems, Gronwall’s inequality, Dependence of solution on
initial conditions and on function, Continuation of solutions, Nonlocal existence of solution.
Strum-Liouvilles System and Green’s Function
Strum-Liouvilles system, Green’s function and its applications to boundary value problems, some oscillation
theorems such as Strum theorem, Strum comparison theorem and related results.
Homogeneous and Non-homogeneous Equation
System of first order equation, Existence and Uniqueness of solution for systems, fundamental matrix, Non
homogeneous linear system, Linear system’s with constant as well as periodic coefficients, General theory of
homogeneous and non homogeneous linear ODE, Second order linear equations with variable co-efficients.
Reduction of order when one solution of the homogeneous part is known. Complete solution. Reduction to
normal form, Change of independent variable, Transformation of the equation by changing the dependent
variables / the independent variable. Wronskian and its properties, variation of parameters, Cauchy-Euler
equations.
Page No - 41 of 67

--- Page 42 ---
Series Solution
Series solutions, Legendre differential equation and Legendre polynomials, Bessel’s differential equation and
Bessel’s function. Laguerre differential equation and Lagurre polynomial, Hermite differential equation and
Hermite polynomial; recurrence relations, orthogonal properties.
Reference Books
a) E.A. Coddington, An introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations, Prentice Hall of India,
New Delhi, 1991.
b) P. Haitman, Ordinary Differential Equations, Wiley, New York, 1964.
c) E.A. Coddington and H. Davinson, Theory of Ordinary Differential Equations, McGraw Hill,
NY, 1955.
d) M. Braun, Differential Equations and Their Applications, 3rd Ed., Springer-Verlag, 1983.
e) S.C. Deo, Y. Lakshminathan and V. Raghavendra, Text Book of Ordinary Differential Equation
(Second Edition) Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi.1997
* * * * * *
BSMS 6th Semester
[Compulsory]
Discrete Mathematics
Set Theory
Sets and classes, relations and functions, recursive definitions, Posets, Zorn’s lemma, cardinal and ordinal
numbers.
Logic
Propositional and predicate calculus, well-formed formulas, tautologies, equivalence, normal forms, theory of
inference.
Combinatorics
Permutation and combinations, partitions, Pigeonhole principle, inclusion-exclusion principle, generating
functions, recurrence relations.
Graph Theory
Graphs and digraphs, Eulerian cycle and Hamiltonian cycle, adjacency and incidence matrices, vertex
colouring, planarity, trees.
Reference Books
a) N. Deo, Graph Theory, Prentice Hall of India, 1974.
b) J.P. Tremblay and R. Manohar, Discrete Mathematical Structures with Applications to
Computer Science, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi, 2001.
c) C. L. Liu, Elements of Discrete Mathematics, 2nd Edn., Tata McGraw-Hill, 2000.
d) K. H. Rosen, Discrete Mathematics & its Applications, 6th Edn., Tata McGraw-Hill, 2007.
e) V. K. Balakrishnan, Introductory Discrete Mathematics, Dover, 1996.
f) J. L. Hein, Discrete Structures, Logic, and Computability, 3rd Edn., Jones and Bartlett, 2010.
* * * * * *
Page No - 42 of 67

--- Page 43 ---
BSMS 7th Semester
[Compulsory]
Graph Theory
Introduction to Graphs
The concept of a graph, Paths in graphs, Graph models, Graph terminology and special types of graphs,
Bipartite graphs, Complete graphs, External graphs, Intersection graphs, Operations on graph, Graph
Isomorphism.
Blocks
Cutpoints, bridges and blocks. Block graphs and cutpoint graphs.
Trees
Introduction to trees and characterizations, Applications of Trees, Spanning Trees, Minimum Spanning Trees,
Trees in computer science, Centers and centroids, Block cutpoint trees, Independent cycles and cocycles,
Matroids.
Connectivity
Connectivity and line-connectivity, Graphical version of Menger's theorem. Traversability : Eulerian Graphs,
Hamiltonian Graphs.
Coverings and Matching
Coverings and independence, Critical points and lines, Matching, Maximum Matching Problem, Minimum
covering problems.
Representing Graphs
Adjacency matrix, Incidence matrix, Cycle matrix.
Planarity
Plane and planar graphs, Outerplanar graphs, Kuratowski's theorem, other characterizations of planar graphs.
Colorability
Vertex coloring, Chromatic number, Edge coloring, Five color theorem, Four color conjecture, Unique
colorable graphs.
Directed Graphs
Basic definitions, Type of Connectedness, Covers and Bases, Distance concepts and matrices, Connectivity,
Acyclic digraphs, Cycles and traversability, Orientations and Tournaments.
Network Flows
Max Flow – Min Cut Theorem, Menger's Theorem.
Reference Books
a) Graph Theory, F. Harary, Narosa Publishing House, 1993.
b) Introduction to Graph Theory, Douglas B. West, Prentice-Hall of India Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi
1999.
c) Graph Theory with Applications to Engineering and Computer Science, Narsingh Deo,
Prentice-Hall of India Pvt.Ltd., New Delhi, 1997.
d) Basic Graph Theory, K.R. Parthasarathi, Tata McGraw-Hill Publ. Co. Ltd., New Delhi, 1994.
* * * * * *
Page No - 43 of 67

--- Page 44 ---
BSMS 7th Semester
[Compulsory]
Linear Algebra
Review of Vector Spaces
Vector space, subspace, span, linear independence, basis, dimension. Linear transformation: Linear
transformation, rank-nullity, Isomorphisms. Matrix representation, change of basis, space of linear
transformations, Existence of eigenvalues, characteristic polynomial, eigenspace, generalized eigenvectors.
Linear functional, Representation of linear transformations by matrices, Dual spaces, Second dual, Reflexive
spaces, Invariant subspaces, Direct-sum decomposition, Cyclic subspaces and Annihilators, minimal
polynomial, The rational and Jordan canonical forms.
Inner Product Spaces
Inner products, norm and angle, orthogonality, Gram-Schmidt process, orthogonal complement, best
approximation and least squares, Riesz representation and adjoint. Block diagonalization: Diagonalizability,
Schur triangularization, Jordan form.
Spectral representation: Operators on inner product spaces, projections, normal operators, self-adjoin
operators, singular value decomposition, polar decomposition.
Reference Books
a) Axler, S., Linear Algebra Done Right, 2nd edn. Springer International Student Edition, 1997.
b) Hoffman, K., Kunze, R., Linear Algebra, 2nd edn. Prentice Hall Int. Inc., Englewood Cliffs, 1971.
c) Linear Algebra, M.T.Nair and A.Singh, Springer, 2018.
* * * * * *
BSMS 7th Semester
[Compulsory]
Real Analysis
Point Set Topology
Limit points of a set and isolated point of a set, closed sets, dense sets, countable and uncountable
sets. Neighbourhood of a point, Interior point, Open set. Union, intersection of open sets and closed
sets. Bolzano-Weierstrass theorem.
Series and Sequence
Abel’s test, Dirichlet’s test, Mertens’ theorem, Abel’s theorem, limit of a function.
Metrics and Norms
Metric spaces, normed vector spaces, convergence in metric spaces, continuous functions,
completeness, Baire Category Theorem, Contraction mapping theorem, connectedness, Intermediate
Value Theorem, Compactness, Heine-Borel Theorem.
Differentiation
Differentiation, Taylor's theorem.
Integration
Function of bounded variation, Riemann- Stieltjes integral and relation with Riemann integral,
Darboux-Stieltjes integral. Mean value theorems.
Page No - 44 of 67

--- Page 45 ---
Sequences and Series of Functions
Sequences and series of functions, Uniform convergence, power series and Fourier series, Fourier
Series, Dirichlet’s Kernel, Riemann- Lebesgue theorem, pointwise convergence of Fourier Series of
functions of bounded variation. Weierstrass approximation theorem, Equicontinuity, Arzela-Ascoli
theorem.
Reference Books
a) K.R. Stromberg, Introduction to Classical Real Analysis, Wadsworth International, 2017.
b) J.M. Howie, A First Course in Real Analysis, Springer, 2006.
c) H.L. Royden, Real Analysis, Paperback, 1988.
d) R. Robert, G. Bartle, Donald R. Sherbert, Introduction to Real Analysis, 2014.
e) S.C. Malik, Principles of Real Analysis, New Age International Publishers, 2011.
f) S.K. Mapa, Introduction to Real Analysis, Sarat Impressions Pvt. Ltd, 2019.
g) Shanti Narayan, M D Raisinghania, Elements of Real Anyalsis, S. Chand Group, 2008.
* * * * * *
BSMS 7th Semester
[Compulsory]
Abstract Algebra
Group Theory
Review of basic Group Theory, Group Actions, Kernel and Stabilizer of Group Actions, Transitive Group
Action, Cayley's Theorem, The Class Equation, Sylow's Theorems, Solvable groups, Nilpotent groups, Direct
Products, Structure Theorem for Finite Abelian Groups, Existence and universal Properties of free Groups,
Examples of Groups specified by Generators and Relations.
Ring Theory
Review of basic Ring Theory, Properties of Ideals, Prime and Maximal Ideals, Two-sided ideals and Quotient
Rings, Chinese Reminder Theorem, Euclidean Domain, Euclidean Algorithm, Principal Ideal Domain,
Euclidean Domain is a Principal Ideal Domain, UFD, PID implies UFD, Universal Property of a Polynomial
Ring, Criteria for Irreducibility, Definition and simple examples of modules over commutative and non-
commutative rings.
Field Theory
Finite and Algebraic Extensions, Existence and Cardinality of Algebraic Closure, Finite Fields, Galois Theory
of Polynomial in characteristic zero and simple examples, Classical Straightedge and Compass construction
and examples, normal, separable and Galois extensions.
Reference Books
a) D. S. Dummit and R. M. Foote, Abstract Algebra, 2nd Edition, John-Wiley, 1999.
b) S. Lang, Algebra, 3rd Edition, Addison-Wesley, 1999.
c) J.A. Gallian, Contemporary Abstract Algebra, 4th Ed., Narosa, 1999.
d) M. Artin, Algebra, Prentice Hall inc 1994.
e) I.N. Herstein, Topics in Algebra, John-Wiley, 1995.
f) T. A. Hungerford, Algebra, Graduate Texts in Mathematics, Springer-Verlag, 1980.
* * * * * *
Page No - 45 of 67

--- Page 46 ---
BSMS 7th Semester
[Compulsory]
Computer Programming Theory & Practical
Basic Features
The Matlab workspace about variables, complex number, floating point arithmetic, Mathematical functions.
Script M files
Use, Block comments and code cells, startup and finish. Array and Array operations: Simple array, Array
addressing or indexing, Array construction, Array orientation, Scalar Array Mathematics, array Manipulation,
Array sorting, Sub array searching, Array size, Array and Memory utilization, Multidimensional Array
construction & its manipulation. Numeric data type: Integer data type, floating point data types.
Cell Arrays and structures
Cell array creation, its manipulation, Retrieving cell array content, comma separated list, cell functions, cell
array of strings, structure creation, structure manipulation, structure functions. Character string: String
construction, string evaluation, string functions, cell array of strings.
Relational and logical operations
Relational and logical operators, Relational and logical functions, Nans and empty, operator precedence.
Control flow: For loops, while loops, if else end construction, switch case construction, Try catch blocks.
Application to Numerical Analysis
The following topics may be covered in MATLAB. Bisection Method, Newton Raphson Method, Regula Falsi
method, Iteration Method, Graffe’s Root squaring method, Power Method, L.U. Decomposition Method,
Romberg Method, Muller Method, Adams Moulton Method, Newton’s Method (forward & backward),
Lagrange’s interpolation, Divided Difference method, Numerical Differentiation (1st & 2nd Order),
Numerical Integration, Least square method, Gauss Elimination method, Gauss Seidal Method, Jacobi’s
iteration method, Milne’s Method, Runge Kutta Method.
Reference Books
a) A. Gilat, Matlab an Introduction with Applications, Wiley Publication, 2010.
b) S. C. Chapra, Applied Numerical Methods with Matlab for Engineers and Scientists, Tata McGraw-
Hill, 2008.
c) R. Pratab, Getting started with Matlab, 2016.
* * * * * *
Page No - 46 of 67

--- Page 47 ---
BSMS 8th Semester
[Compulsory]
Topology
Topology on the real line and plane, Topological Spaces, Subspace topology, Bases and Sub-bases,
Continuous Functions and homeomorphisms, Connected spaces, Components and Local Connectedness, Path
connectedness, Compact spaces, Local compactness. Countabilities and Separation axioms. Product Topology,
Quotient Topology. The Urysohn Lemma, The Urysohn Metrization Theorem. The Tietze Extension
Theorem, Tychonoff Theorem.
Reference Books
b) J.V. Deshpande, Introduction to Topology, Tata McGraw-Hill, 1988.
c) J. Dugundji, Topology, Allyn and Bacon, Inc, 1966.
d) J.L. Kelley, General Topology, Van Nostrand, Princeton, 2014.
e) M.G. Murdeswar, General Topology, New Age International, 2020.
f) G.F. Simmons, Introduction to Topology and modern Analysis International Student edition, 1983.
g) S. Willard, General Topology, Addison Wesley, Reading Mass, 1970.
h) Seymour Lipschutz, General Topology, Mc Graw-Hill, 1965.
i) K.D. Joshi, Introduction to General Topology, New Age International, 1983.
j) J.R. Munkres, Topology, 2nd Ed., Pearson Education India, 2002.
* * * * * *
BSMS 8th Semester
[Compulsory]
Tensor calculus and Riemannian Geometry
Tensor Calculus
Tensor Analysis – I
Summation Convension, Kronecker symbol. n-dimensional space, transformation of coordinates in
S . Invariants, covariant vectors, contravariant vectors and mixed tensors. Algebra of tensors.
n
Symmetric and skew-symmetric tensors, contraction, outer and inner product of tensors. Quotient
law, reciprocal tensor. Riemann space, the line element and metric tensor. Raising and lowering of
indices. Associate tensor. Magnitude of a vector, Inclination of two vectors. Orthogonal vectors.
Christoffel symbols and their properties, Law of transformation, law of Christoffel symbols,
covariant differentiation of tensors, covariant differentiation of sum, difference and product of
tensors, Gradient, Divergence, Curl and Laplacian.
Page No - 47 of 67

--- Page 48 ---
Tensor Analysis – II
Curvilinear coordinate system in E : Line element, length of vector, angle between two vectors in E
3 3
in a curvilinear coordinate system. Basis in a curvilinear coordinate system, reciprocal base, covariant
and contravariant components of a vector in E . Partial derivative of a vector. Spherical and
3
cylindrical coordinate system. Curves in E . Parallel vector fields along a curve in E , parallel vector
3 3
field in E , parallel vector space in a Riemannian space, parallel vector field in a surface of a
3
Riemannian space. Serret-Frenet formulas. Riemann-Christoffel curvature tensor. Ricci tensor. Flat
space, Bianchi identities. Intrinsic differentiation. Conformal curvature tensor. Space of constant
curvature.
Riemannian Geometry
Riemannian Manifold
Riemannian metric, existence of Riemannian metric, linear connection, existence of linear
connection, torsion and curvature of a linear connection, symmetric connection, metric connection,
Riemannian connection, existence of Riemannian connection. Riemann curvature, sectional
curvature, Ricci tensor, scalar curvature, tensors in Riemannian manifold, Schur’s theorem.
Parallel Vector Field, Geodesics
Existence of geodesic, parallel translation, length minimizing property of geodesic. Complete
manifold. Hopf-Rinow theorem. Hadamard theorem. Parametrised surface. Gausslemma. Totally
geodesic sub-manifold.
Isometric Immersion
Riemannian sub-manifold. Second fundamental form of a Riemannian sub-manifold. Gauss equation,
Ricci equation. Coddazi equation.
Reference Books
a) I. S. Sokolnikoff, Tensor Analysis-Theory & Applications to Geometry & Mechanics of Continua, 2nd
edition, John Wiley & Sons, Inc, 1965.
b) M. Majumder and A. Bhattacharyya, Differential Geometry, Books and Allied (p) Ltd, 2010.
c) S. Boothby, An Introduction to Differentiable Manifolds and Riemannian Geometry, Accademic Press,
1975.
d) U. C. Dey, Differential Geometry & Manifolds, 2007.
e) Barry Spain, Tensor Calculus, Radha Publishing House, Calcutta.
* * * * * *
BSMS 8th Semester
[Compulsory]
Complex Analysis
Limits, Continuity and Differentiability, Analytic functions, Harmonic functions and multi-valued functions.
Convergence of numerical series, Radius of convergence of power series, and power series as an analytic
function, Laurent series.
Page No - 48 of 67

--- Page 49 ---
Classification of singularities, Cauchy's Residue theorem and evaluation of Real Integrals. Cauchy's integral
theorem, Cauchy integral formula, Morera's theorem, Taylor`s theorem, Laurent's theorem, Liouville's
theorem, Schwarz lemma; Maximum Modulus Principle, Branch of Lagarithm: Branch cut, Branch point.
Conformal mappings, Topology of the complex plane, Stereographic Projections, Riemann sphere, Linear
fractional Transformations, Critical Points and Inverse Mappings, Cross ratio, Bilinear Transformation.
Exponential and Trigonometric Transformation.
Reference Books
a) Lars V. Ahlfors, Complex Analysis, McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc., New York, 1986
b) 1. S. Ponnusamy and H. Silverman, Complex Variables with Applications, Birkhauser, Boston, 2006.
c) J.W. Brown and R.V. Churchil, Complex Variables and Applications, McGraw Hill, 2008.
d) H. A. Priestly, Introduction to complex analysis, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1990.
e) A. I. Markushivich, Theory of Functions of Complex Variables, Vol-I, II; Prentice-Hall, 1965.
f) John B. Conway, Functions of One Complex Variable, Second Edition, Springer International
Student-Edition, Narosa Publishing House, 1980.
* * * * * *
Page No - 49 of 67

--- Page 50 ---
BSMS 8th Semester
[Compulsory]
Statistical Inference and Stochastic Processes
Statistical Inference
Introduction
Parametric models, Parameters, Random sample and its likelihood, Statistic and its sampling
distributions, Problems of inference. Examples from standard discrete and continuous models such
as Bernoulli, Binomial, Poisson, Negative Binomial, Normal, Exponential, Gamma, Weibull, Pareto
etc.
Sufficiency and Estimators
Concept of sufficiency, minimal sufficiency, Neyman factorization criterion, Fisher information,
Exponential families. Maximum likelihood estimators, Method of moment estimators, Percentile
estimators, Least squares estimators, Minimum mean squares estimators, Uniformly minimum
variance unbiased estimators.
Statistical Hypothesis
Simple and composite hypotheses, Null hypotheses, Alternative hypotheses, One-sided and two-
sided hypotheses. The critical region and test statistic, Type I error and Type II error, Level of
significance. Power function of a test, Most powerful test. The p-value (observed level of
significance), Calculating p-values. Simple hypothesis versus simple alternative: Neyman-Pearson
lemma (Statement only).
Stochastic Process
Stochastic Processes
Definition and examples of stochastic processes, Classifications of stochastic processes.
Markov Chains
Definition and examples, Transition Probability matrices, Classification of states of a Markov chain,
Determination of higher order transition probabilities, Graph theoretic approach, Reducible Markov
chains, Markov Chains with continuous state spaces, Non-homogeneous Markov Chains, Markov
chains in continuous time: General pure birth and death processes, Birth and death processes with
absorbing states.
Poisson Processes
Markov Processes with Discrete State Space: Poisson Process and Its Extensions, Poisson Process,
Postulates for Poisson Process, Properties of Poisson Process, Poisson Process and Related
Distributions, Inter arrival Time, Further Interesting Properties of Poisson Process, Generalisations
of Poisson Process.
Stochastic Processes in Queuing and Reliability
General concepts of queuing systems, Steady state and transient behaviour, Birth and death process
in queuing theory, Network of Markovian queuing systems, Reliability.
Page No - 50 of 67

--- Page 51 ---
Introduction to Brownian motion
Wiener processes, Differential equations for a Wiener process, Kalmogrov’s equations.
Reference Books
a) J. O. Berger, Statistical Decision Theory, 1980.
b) E. L. Lehmann, Testing of Statistical Hypotheses, 1986.
c) P. J. Bickel and K. A. Doksum, Mathematical Statistics, 2006.
d) J Medhi, Stochastic Processes, New Age International Publishers, 2009.
e) S.C. Gupta and V. K. Kapoor, Fundamentals of mathematical Statistics, Sultan Chand & Sons
publication, 2002.
f) R. L. Berger and G. Casella, Statistical Inference, 2006.
* * * * * *
Page No - 51 of 67

--- Page 52 ---
BSMS 9th Semester
[Compulsory]
Mathematical Methods
Integral Transform
Legendre Transforms
Introduction, definition of the Legendre Transform and Examples, Basic Operational Properties of Legendre
Transforms, Applications of Legendre Transforms to Boundary Value Problems, Applications.
Hermite Transforms
Introduction, Definition of the Hermite Transform and Examples, Basic Operational Properties, Applications.
Radon Transform
Introduction, properties of the Radon Transform, Radon Transform of Derivatives and integral, Convolution
theorem for the Radon Transform. inverse of the Radon Transform and the Parseval’s Relation, Applications.
Integral Equations
Definition, different types of integral equations, kernels, Conversion of ordinary differential equations into
integral equations, eigen value and eigen function problem. Solution of integral equation, Fredholm integral
equation of the second kind with separable kernels.
Solution of Fredholm and Voltera integral equations by successive approximation.
Classical Fredholm theory: Statements of Fredholm’s first, second and third fundamental theorems and their
applications.
Integral equations with symmetric kernels, Hilbert Schmidt theorem and some immediate consequences.
Singular integral equations, Integral transform method of solution of integral equations.
Approach to reduce BVP of a self-adjoint DE with homogeneous boundary conditions to integral equation
forms.
Auxiliary problem with more general and inhomogeneous boundary conditions. Modified Green’s function.
Calculus of Variation
Variational Problems with Fixed Boundaries
The variation of a functional and its properties. Euler’s equation, functionals dependent on several dependent
variables, on higher order derivatives, several independent variables etc. Isoperimetric problems.
Variational Problems with Moving Boundaries
Transversality conditions, problems related to moving bounderies, one sided variation.
Sufficient Conditions for an Extremum
Jacobi condition, Legender condition, weak and strong extremum. Hamiltons canonical equation of motion.
Variational Methods for Boundary Value Problem
Rayleigh Ritz method, Galerkins method for BVP in ordinary differential and partial differential equations.
Page No - 52 of 67

--- Page 53 ---
Reference Book
a) I.N.Sneddon, The Use of Integral Transforms, Tata McGraw Hill,1979.
b) B.P.Parasar, Differential equation and integral equation, CBS Publications,2008.
c) Petrovsky,Lectures on the Theory of Integral Equations,Mir Publication,1971.
d) G.Yankovsky, Problems and exercise in Integral Equation, Mir Publication,1971.
e) R.R.Goldberg, Fourier Transform, Cambridge Univ. Press,2009.
f) Gelfand, I. M. and Fomin, S. V., Calculus of Variations, revised English edition translated and edited
by Richard A. Silverman, Prentice-Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1963.
g) Krasnov, M. L.; Makarenko, G. I. and Kisel ev, A. I., Problems and Exercises in Integral Equations,
translated from the Russian by George Yankovsky, 1975.
h) LokenathDebnath ,Dambaru Bhatta, Integral transforms and their applications , Taylor & Francis,
2006.
i) Brunt, Bruce van, The Calculus of Variations , Springer,2004.
j) Pipkin, Allen C., A Course on Integral Equations, Texts in Applied Mathematics, 9, Springer-Verlag,
New York, 1991.
* * * * * *
BSMS 9th Semester
[Compulsory]
Partial Differential Equation
Higher Order Partial Differential Equation
Homogeneous equations with constant coefficients, Cauchy Problems for first order Hyperbolic Equations,
Classification of seconds order partial differential equation, Monge’s Method.
Heat Equation
Solution by the method of separation of variables, Applications to one dimensional heat flow, Properties of
solutions.
Wave Equation
Solution by the method of separation of variables, Solution by spherical means and Riemann method of
solution, Applications to vibration of strings.
Laplace's Equation
Solution by the method of separation of variables, Boundary value problems, maximum and minimum
principles, uniqueness and continuity theorems, Dirichlet problem for a circle, Dirichlet problem for a circular
annulus, Neumann problem for a circle, theory of Green's function for Laplace's equation.
Reference Books
a) I. N. Sneddon, Elements of Partial Differential Equations, McGraw Hill Book Company, 1957.
b) Phoolan Prasad, RenukaRavindran,Partial Differential Equations, Wiley Eastern Limited, 1987.
c) F. John, Partial Differential equations, Springer,1982.
d) T. Amarnath, An Elementary Course in Partial Differential Equations,2003.
e) L.C. Ivans, M Graduate,Partial Differential Equations Studies in Mathematics, Volume 19, AMS,
1968.
* * * * * *
Page No - 53 of 67

--- Page 54 ---
BSMS 9th Semester
[Compulsory]
Measure Theory
The Lebesgue Measure
Outer measure, Measurable sets and Lebesgue measure, Properties of Measurable sets, σ-Algebras,
Borel sets and their measurability, Non measurable sets.
Measurable Functions
Definition and properties of Measurable functions, Sets of Measure Zero, Borel measurable
functions, Sequence of functions, Littlewood’s three principles, Convergence in measure.
Lebesgue Integral
The Riemann integral, The Lebesgue integral of a bounded function over a set of finite measure, The
integral of a nonnegative function, The general Lebesgue integral.
Differentiation and Integration
Differentiation of monotone functions, Functions of bounded variation, Differentiation of an integral,
Absolute continuity, Convex Functions.
The Lebesgue Lp spaces
The Lp spaces, The Minkowski and Holder inequalities, Convergence and completeness,
Approximation in Lp, Bounded linear functionals on the Lp spaces.
Reference Books
a) I. K. Rana, An Introduction to Measure and Integration, Second Edition,Narosa, 2005.
b) G. De. Barra, Measure Theory and Integration, Horwood Publishing Corporation, 2003.
c) P. K. Jain, V. P. Gupta, Lebesgue Measure and Integration, New Age International, 2006.
d) H. L. Royden, Real Analysis (Third Edition), Macmillan Publishing Company, 1988.
* * * * * *
BSMS 9th Semester
[Elective – I]
Operation Research – I
Goal Programming
Introduction, Difference between LP & GP approach, Concept of Goal Programming, Graphical
solution- method of GP, Modified simplex method of GP.
Dynamic Programming
Introduction, Nature of Dynamic Programming, Deterministic processes, Non- sequential discrete
optimization, Allocation problems, Assortment Problems, Sequential discrete optimization, Long-
term planning problem, Multi-stage decision process, Application of Dynamic Programming in
production scheduling and routine problems.
Page No - 54 of 67

--- Page 55 ---
Inventory Control
Inventory control – Deterministic including price breaks and Multi-item with constraints.
Probabilistic (with and without lead time). Fuzzy and Dynamic inventory models.
Queuing Theory
Basic Structure of queuing models. Poisson queues, M/M/I, M/M/C or finite and infinite queue
length, Non-Poisson queue- M/G/I, Machine-Maintenance (steady state).
Network: PERT and CPM
Introduction, Basic difference between PERT and CPM. Steps of PERT/CPM Techniques, PERT/
CPM Network Components and precedence relationships, Critical path analysis, Probability in PERT
analysis, Project Time-Cost, Trade-Off. Updating of the project, Resource allocation – resource
smoothing and resource levelling.
Replacement and Maintenance Models
Introduction. Failure Mechanism of items, Replacement of items deteriorates with time, Replacement
policy for equipment when value of money changes with constant rate during the period.
Replacement of items that fail completely individual replacement policy and group replacement
policy. Other replacement problems staffing problem. Equipment renewal problem.
Simulation
Introduction. Steps of simulation process, Advantages and disadvantages of simulation. Stochastic
simulation and random numbers. Monte – Carlo simulation. Random number. Generation. Simulation
of inventory problems, Simulation of Queuing problems, Role of computers in Simulation.
Application of Simulations.
Reference Books
a) A. P. Verma, Introduction to Operations Research, S. K. Kataria & Sons, 3rd Edition 2014.
b) Hamdy A. Taha, Operations Research: An Introduction, 10th Edition, Pearson Education
2017
c) P. K. Gupta, Operations Research, S. Chand, Fifth Edition, 1976.
d) J. K. Sharma, Operations Research, Theory and Applications, Macmillan India Ltd., 1997.
e) D. S Hira and P. K. Gupta, Operations Research, S. Chand, 2015.
* * * * * *
BSMS 9th Semester
[Elective – I]
Differential Geometry
Differentiable Manifold
Calculus on Rn: Continuity and differentiability of function from Rn to Rm, Inverse function theorem, Implicit
function theorem, the existence and uniqueness theorem of solution of ODE. Smooth manifold, Differentiable
Page No - 55 of 67

--- Page 56 ---
manifold, Tangent space, Derivative of a smooth map, Tangent bundle, Immersion, submersion, embedding,
submanifold, regular and critical point, Whitney weak embedding theorem and its consequences.
Vector Fields
Height of the level set, level curves, Lie bracket, Lie algebra, Lie derivative, integral curve of a vector field,
flows and local flows, existence of integral curve, complete vector field, existence of complete vector field,
vector fields related by a differentiable map. Distribution: Involutive distribution, the Frobenious theorem and
its applications.
Surfaces
Hyperplane, Lagrange multiplier, Vector Fields on Surfaces, maximal integral curve, orientation and its
consistency, Osculating plane, SerretFrenet formula, first and second fundamental form, the Gauss map
spherical image.
Geodescis
Maximal geodesic, covariant derivative and acceleration, Fermi derivative, The Weingarten Mapgeodesic
flow,
Curvature of Plane Curves
Center of curvature, radius of curvature, Isometries, Intrinsic differentiation, Gauss-Kronecker curvature,
Fundamental theorem on curves. Curvature of surfaces: Parametrized surfaces, local equivalence of surfaces.
Gauss-Bonnet Theorem and its application to constant curvatures, theorems of Hadmard.
Lie Group and Lie Algebra
Left invariant vector fields, exponential map and its applications, Lie algebra homomorphism, One parameter
subgroups, Adjoint representation.
Reference Books
a) J. A. Thorpe, Elementary Topics in Differential Geometry (Springer), 2004.
b) Mannfredo. P. DoCarmo, Differential Geometry of Curves and Surfaces, Prentice Hall, 1976.
c) J.J. Stoker, Differential Geometry, Wiley-Interscience, 1969.
d) Andrew Pressley, Elementary Differential Geometry, Springer, 2002.
e) B. O`Neill, Elementary Differential Geometry, Academic Press, 1966.
* * * * * *
BSMS 9th Semester
[Elective – I]
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation – I
Mathematical Models of Population Biology or Ecology
Mathematical Models
Deterministic and Stochastic. Single species population models. P-V Logistic equation. Population
growth model– An age structured model.
Page No - 56 of 67

--- Page 57 ---
Interactions Between Two Species
Host-Parasite type of interactions, Competitive type of interactions. Trajectories of interactions of H-
P and competitive types between two species. Effect of migration on H-P interactions. Some
consequences of Lotka-Volterra equations. Generalized L-V equations. Constant of motion in the
dynamical system.
Stochastic Processes and Need of Stochastic Models
Pure birth process, Pure death process, Birth and death process. Linear birth-death-immigration-
emigration processes. Effects of both immigration and emigration on the dynamics of population.
Biological Mechanisms Responsible for "Time-Delay"
Discrete and continuous time-delay. The single species logistic model with the effect of time-delay.
Stability of equilibrium position for the logistic model with general delay function. Stability of
logistic model for discrete time lag. Time-delayed H-P model together with their stability analysis.
Mathematical Theory of Epidemics
Introduction
Some basic definitions. Simple epidemic model, General epidemic model.Kermack-
McKendrikthreshold theorem. Recurring epidemic model. A comparative study of these models.
Control of an Epidemic
Stochastic epidemic model without removal. Models having multiple infections.Epidemic model with
multiple infections. Stochastic epidemic model with removal. Stochastic epidemic model with
removal, immigration and emigration. Special discussion on the stochastic epidemic model with
carriers.
Simple Extensions of SIR Model
Different case studies - (i) Loss of immunity, (ii) Inclusion of immigration and emigration, (iii)
Immunization. SIR endemic disease model.
Reference Books
a) X. Q. Zhao, Dynamical Systems in Population Biology, Canadian Mathematical Society,(2017).
b) R. M.Andersson and R M May, Infectious Diseases of Humans,(1992).
c) J. N. Kapur ,Mathematical Models in Biology and Medicine, East West Press Pvt Ltd (1985).
d) R. Habermann, Mathematical Models, Prentice Hall (1977).
e) R. W. Poole, An Introduction to Quantitative Ecology, McGraw- Hill,(1974).
f) E. C. Pielou, An Introduction to Mathematical Ecology, Wiley, New York (1977).
g) R. Rosen, Foundation of Mathematical Biology (vol. I& II), Academic Press,(1972).
h) Mark Kot, Elements of Mathematical Ecology,Cambridge University Press (2003)
i) J. D. Murray, Mathematical Biology, Springer-Verlag, Berlin (1989).
* * * * * *
Page No - 57 of 67

--- Page 58 ---
BSMS 10th Semester
[Compulsory]
Functional Analysis
Introduction to Normed Space
Normed linear space, H0 ̈ lder's inequality, Minkowski's inequality, Banach space, equivalent norms,
Riesz lemma, Finite dimensional normed spaces and subspaces, Quotient space, Compactness and
finite dimension.
Finite Dimensional Normed Space
Bounded and continuous linear operators, Linear functional, Linear operators and functional on finite
dimensional spaces, Dual of normed spaces, Reflexive space, Open mapping theorem and closed
graph theorems, Uniform boundedness principle.
Inner Product Spaces
Inner product spaces, Cauchy- Schwarz inequality. Parallelogram law, Pythagorian, theorem,
Bessel’s Inequality, Gram-Schmidt orthogonalisation process, Hilbert space Examples, Orthonormal
sets, Complete orthonormal sets and Parseval’s Inequality, Orthogonal complement, Projection
theorem, Riesz Representation theorem.
Operators on Inner Product Spaces
Adjoint of an operator on Hilbert space, Properties of adjoint operation, Self-adjoint operator and its
characterisation, Projection operator, Unitary operator, Concept of normal operator and its
characterisation, Normed operator, Unitary operator and its characterisation, Zorn’s lemma, Hahn-
Banach theorem, Topological vector spaces.
Reference Books
a) Bachman and Naric, Functional Analysis, Academic Press (1966).
b) G. F. Simmon, Introduction to Topology and Modern Analysis, McGraw-Hill Book Company
(1963).
c) Goffman and Pedrick, First Course in Functional Analysis, Prentice-Hall, Inc.1983
d) John B. Conway, A Course in Functional Analysis, Springer (1990).
e) A. E. Taylor, Introduction to Functional Analysis, John Wiley & Sons. (1958).
f) B. V. Limaye, Functional Analysis, New Age International Ltd.2014
g) M. Thamban Nair, Functional Analysis, Prentice-Hall of India Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi (2002).
h) Jain, Ahuja and Ahmad, Functional Analysis, New Age International (P) Ltd. (1997).
i) Kreyszig Erwin, Introductory Functional Analysis with Applications, Wiley Classics Library,
John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York (1989).
j) Walter Rudin, Functional Analysis, Tata McGraw-Hill (1974).
* * * * * *
Page No - 58 of 67

--- Page 59 ---
BSMS 10th Semester
[Elective – II & Elective – III]
Operation Research – II
Stochastic Programming
Chance constraint programming techniques.
Geometric Programming
Geometric programming (both unconstrained and constrained), Fuzzy geometric programming.
Games
Preliminaries concepts of continuous Game, Bimatrix Games, Nash equilibrium, solution of Bimatrix Games
through quadratic programming (relation with non-linear programming). Multiobjective Linear & Non-linear
programming,Complete optimal solution, Pareto & Weak Pareto optimal solution, Utility function method ,
Global criterion method, Fuzzy programming technique.
Optimal Control
Performance indices, methods of calculus of variation, Transversally conditions, simple optimal problems of
Mechanics, Pontryagin’s Principle (with proof assuming smooth condition), Linear regulator, application of
dynamic programming in proving Pontryagin’s Principle, Bang-Bang control.
Sequencing
Problem with n jobs two machines, n jobs three machines and n jobs m machines.
Reliability
Concepts, Reliability definition, system Reliability, system failure rate, Reliability of the systems connected in
series or/ and parallel.
Information Theory
Introduction, communication process-memory less channel, the channel matrix, probability relation in a
channel, noiseless channel.
Measure of information—Properties of Entropy function, measure of other information quantities—marginal
and joint Entropies, conditional Entropies, expected mutual information, axiom for an Entropy function,
properties of Entropy function. Channel capacity, Efficiency and Redundancy.
Encoding
Objectives of encoding, Shannon-Fano Encoding Procedure, Necessary and sufficient condition for
noiseless encoding.
Reference Books
a) A.P. Verma, Introduction to Operations Research, S.K. Kataria& Sons, 3rd Edition, 2014.
b) Hamdy A. Taha, Operations Research: An Introduction, 10th Edition, Pearson Education India, 2017.
c) P. K. Gupta, Operations Research, S Chand, Fifth Edition, 1976.
d) J. K. Sharma, Operations Research, Theory and Applications, Macmillan India Ltd., 1997.
e) D.S. Hira, P. K. Gupta, Operations Research, S Chand, 2015.
* * * * * *
Page No - 59 of 67

--- Page 60 ---
BSMS 10th Semester
[Elective – II & Elective – III]
Advanced Numerical Analysis
Finite Difference Methods for PDEs
Basics on Finite Differences. Finite Difference Approximation of the Laplacian in Two Dimensions .The
Discrete Maximum Principle for a Finite Difference Operator. Stability and Convergence of the Finite
Difference Approximation of the Poisson Problem with Dirichlet Boundary Conditions. An Efficient Solver
for the Dirichlet Problem in the Rectangle. Approximate solution of Fredholm equation by finite sums and
degenerate Kernels. Numerical approximation of Volterra equations.
Finite Volume Methods
Different types of finite volume grids, approximation of surface and volume integrals, interpolation methods.
Finite Element and Boundary Element Methods
Weighted residual method,Galerkin, Least square, partition, moment and collection methods. Solution of
boundary value problems by Ritz method. Finite elements and boundary elements of various terms. Constant
elements by Gaussian quadrature. Numerical integration over finite elements. Solution boundary value
problems by Finite element and Boundary element methods.
Reference Books
a) Isacson and Keller, Analysis of Numerical methods, 1994.
b) Ralston and Rabinowitz, A first course in Numerical Analysis, 2012.
c) G.D.Smith, Numerical solution of partial differential equations, 1985.
d) B.P. Demidovich, J.A.Maron, Computational Mathematics.
e) A. Gourdin, M. Boumahrat, Applied Numerical Methods, 2004.
f) M. K. Jain, S. R. K. Iyengar, R. K. Jain, Numerical Methods for Scientific and Engineering Competition
(Wiley Eastern), 1985.
g) A.R.Mitchell, The finite elements method in partial differential equations, 1977.
h) Prem K. Kytbe, An introduction to boundary element methods, 1995
* * * * * *
BSMS 10th Semester
[Elective – II & Elective – III]
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation – II
Some Mathematical Aspects of Oscillations of the Biological Systems
Introduction; Biological Clock; Model for the circadian oscillator. Pharmacokinetics. Mathematical
models in Pharmacokinetics -Compartmental Analysis. Technique. Two compartment model -
Clinical Bromsulphalein (BSP) Test. Basic equations for an n-compartment system. Distributions of
drugs in n- compartment model for (i) given initial dose, (ii) repeated medication, (iii) constant rate of
Page No - 60 of 67

--- Page 61 ---
infusion and (iv) truncated infusion. Compartment model for diabetes mellitus. Stochastic
compartment models. Drug action. Some general principles for real biological oscillations. Cellular
mechanism and genesis of Atherosclerosis.
Arterial Biomechanics
Importance of studies on the mechanics of blood vessels. Structure and functions of blood vessels,
Mechanical properties. Viscoelasticity, Linear discrete viscoelastic (spring-dashpot) models: Maxwell
Fluid, Kelvin Solid, Kelvin Chains and Maxwell models. Creep Compliance, Relaxation Modulus.
Hereditary Integrals, StieltjesIntegrals. Constituents of blood. Structure and functions of the
constituents of blood. Mechanical properties of blood. Equations of motion applicable to blood flow.
Non-Newtonian fluids - Power law, Bingham Plastic, Herschel-Bulkley and Casson fluids. Steady
non- Newtonian fluid flow in a rigid circular tube. Fahraeus-Lindqvist effect. Pulsatile flow in both
rigid and elastic tubes. Blood flow through arteries with mild stenosis. Shear stress on surface of the
stenosis, Two-layered flow in a tube with mild stenosis. Large deformation theory. Various forms of
strain energy functions. The base vectors and metric tensors, Green's deformation and Lagrangian
strain tensors. Cylindrical model, Constitutive equations for blood vessels, Equations of motion for
the vascular wall.
Biological Diffusion and Diffusion-Reaction Models
Fick’s laws of diffusion, One-dimensional diffusion model and its solution, Some solutions of two-
dimensional diffusion equation, Various modifications of diffusion equation to diffusion-reaction
models arising in pharmacokinetics and ecology. Hemodialyser and dialysis of blood, Basic equations
for a circular-duct and a parallel-plate dialyser, Pecletnumber, Sherwood number, Solutions of basic
equation for a circular-duct dialyser by (i) separation of variables method and (ii) Galerki’s method.
Solution for parallel-plate dialyser.
Reference Books
a) D. A. MacDonald, Blood Flow in Arteries, The Williams and Wilkins Company, Baltimore , 1974.
b) Y. C. Fung, Biomechanics of Soft Biological Tissues, Springer Verlag.
c) R. Habermann, Mathematical Models , Prentice Hall, 1977.
d) R. W. Poole, An Introduction to Quantitative Ecology, McGraw- Hill, 1974.
e) E. C. Pielou, An Introduction to Mathematical Ecology, Wiley, New York, 1977.
f) R. Rosen, Foundation of Mathematical Biology (vol. I& II), Academic Press, 1973.
g) W Flugge, Viscoelasticity, Springer-Verlag, 1975.
h) M Zamir, E L Ritman, The Physics of Pulsatile Flow, 2012.
a) J. N. Kapur, Mathematical Models in Biology and Medicine, East West Press Pvt Ltd, 1985.
.
* * * * * *
BSMS 10th Semester
[Elective – II & Elective – III]
Fluid Mechanics
Review of gradient, divergence and curl. Elementary idea of tensors. Velocity of fluid, Streamlines and path
lines, Steady and unsteady flows, Velocity potential, Vorticity vector.
Continuum hypothesis, forces acting on a fluid, stress tensor, analysis of relative motion in the neighborhood
Page No - 61 of 67

--- Page 62 ---
of a point, Euler’s theorem, Reynolds transport theorem, conservation of mass, material surface, momentum
equation.
Stream lines, Bernoulli’s theorem, circulation, Kelvin’s circulation theorem, vorticity, Lagrange’s theorem on
permanence of vorticity, two dimensional irrotational flow of an incompressible fluid, Milne-Thomson circle
theorem, Blasius theorem, flow past an airfoil, the Joukowski transformation, Theorem of Joukowski and
Kutta.
Axisymmetric flows, Stokes stream function, Butler’s sphere theorem, flows due to source, doublet, uniform
flow past a sphere, irrotational three dimensional flow, Weiss’ sphere theorem.
Constitutive equations for incompressible fluids, derivation of Navier-Stokes equations. Simple exact
solutions of Navier-Stokes equation: (i) Plane Poiseuille and Hagen-Poiseuille flows, (ii) Generalized plane
Couette flow, (iii) Steady flow between two rotating concentric circular cylinders, (iv) Stokes’s first and
second problems. Dynamical similarity and Reynolds number.
Reference Books
a) G.K. Batchelor, An Introduction to Fluid Dynamics, Cambridge University Press, 1970.
b) F. Chorlton, Textbook of Fluid Dynamics, CBS Publishers & Distributors, 2000.
c) H. Lamb, Hydrodynamics, University Press, 1916.
d) C.S. Yih, Fluid Mechanics, McGraw-Hill Book, Company, 1988
* * * * * *
BSMS 10th Semester
[Elective – II & Elective – III]
Mechanics
Classical Mechanics
Coordinate System and Basic Concepts
Generalized co-ordinates, holonomic and non-holonomic systems, unilateral and bilateral constraints, principle
of virtual work, D’Alemberts principle.
Variational Principles
Variational principles, problems of mechanics, moving problems of calculus of variations, shortest distance,
minimum surface of revolution, Brachistochrone problem, iso-perimetric problem, geodesic, fundamental,
lemma of calculus of variations.
Lagrange’s Equations of Motion
Lagrange’s equations, uniqueness of solution, Energy equation of conservative fields.
Hamilton’s Principle
Generalized momentum, problem of Liouville type, cyclic coordinates. Hamilton’s principle, Hamiltonian,
principle of least action.
Page No - 62 of 67

--- Page 63 ---
Hamiltonian Dynamics
Derivation of Lagrange’s equations from Hamilton’s principle, Routh’s equation, Hamilton-canonical equation
of motion.
Poisson Bracket
Poisson bracket, Poisson’s identity, Liouville’s theorem, Jacobi-Poisson theorem.
Canonical Transformations
Canonical transformations, Legendre transformations, generating functions, bilinear invariant condition.
Continuum Mechanics
Stress
Body force, Surface force, Cauchy’s stress principle. Stress vector, State of stress at a point, Stress
tensor, The stress vector- stress tensor relationship. Force and moment equilibrium, Stress tensor
symmetry, Stress quadric of Cauchy, Stress transformation laws, Principal stress, Stress invariant,
Stress ellipsoid.
Strain
The Continuum hypothesis. Deformation Gradients, Displacement Gradient, Deformation tensor,
Finite strain tensors, Small deformation theory—infinitesimal strain tensor, Relative displacement,
Linear rotation tensor, Interpretation of the Linear strain tensors, Strain ratio, Finite strain
interpretation, principal strains, strain invariant, cubical dilatation, Compatibility equation for linear
strain, Strain energy function. Hook’s Law. Saint Venant’s Principle, Airy’s strain function.
Isotropic media, Elastic constraints, Moduli of elasticity of isotropic bodies and their relations,
displacement equation of motion. Waves in isotropic elastic media. Perfect fluid, Kinematics of fluid,
Lagrangian method, Eulerian method, Acceleration, Equation of continuity, The boundary surface,
Stream lines and Path lines, Irrotational motions and its physical interpretation , Velocity potential,
Euler’s equation of motion of an inviscous fluid, Cauchy integral, Bernouli’s equation, Integration of
Euler’s equation.
Reference Books
a) Rana and Joag, Classical Mechanics, Narosa Publications, 1991.
b) D.N. Berghese and A.M. Downs, Classical mechanics and Control, John Willey.
c) E.T. Whittecker, Treatise on the Analytical Dynamics and Rigid Bodies, 1988.
d) I.S. Sokolnikoff, Mathematical Theory of Elasticity , Tata Mc. Grawhill, 1997.
e) S. Valliappan, Continuum Mechanics , Oxford & IBH Publishing Company, 1981.
f) L.E. Malvern, Introduction to the Mechanics of a continuous medium, Prentice - Hall, Inc,
1977.
g) J. B. Marion, S. T. Thornton, Classical Dynamics of Particles and Systems-, Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich, 1988.
h) Scheck, Florian, Mechanics - From Newton’s Laws to deterministic Chaos, Graduate Texts in
Physics, Springer, 2010.
i) J. E. Marsden, Ratiu, Tudor, Introduction to Mechanics and Symmetry, Texts in Applied
Mathematics, Springer-Verlag, 1999.
j) H. Goldstein, Poole. C. P., J. Safko, Classical Mechanics, Pearson, 2000.
Page No - 63 of 67

--- Page 64 ---
k) F. Chorlton, Textbook of Dynamics, Ellis Horwood Series, Mathematics and its Applications,
Halsted Press (John Wiley & Sons, Inc.), 1983.
l) H. Goldstein, Poole. C. P. and J. Safko, Classical Mechanics, Pearson, 2002.
m) F. Chorlton, Textbook of Dynamics, Ellis Horwood Series: Mathematics and its Applications,
Halsted Press (John Wiley & Sons, Inc.), 1977.
n) J. E. Marsden, Ratiu, Tudor, Introduction to Mechanics and Symmetry, Texts in Applied
Mathematics, Springer-Verlag, 1998.
o) S.C. Deo, Y. Lakshminathan and V. Raghavendra, Text Book of Ordinary Differential
Equation (Second Edition) Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi.
* * * * * *
BSMS 10th Semester
[Elective – II & Elective – III]
Advanced Topology
Nets, Filters, Ultra filters, Convergence of nets and filters with special reference to zero-set filters and
ultrafilters, Compact sets, Cmpact spaces, Alexander’s theory, Tychonoff’s theory, Locally compact spaces,
Tychonoff’s spaces, Topological embedding, Embedding Lemma, Embedding theory, Compactification, one
point compactification. Alexanderoff one point compactification, Stone-Cech compactification, Ordering of
compactification, minimality of X and maximality of β(X).
Weak topology and completely regular topology, Topology generated by a family of pseudometrics. Uniform
spaces, total boundedness, Cauchy nets and filters, Completeness, Uniformly continuous maps, Uniform
isomorphism, Product uniform space, Quasi uniform spaces, Proximity spaces, Induced topology, Proximal
neighbourhoods, Quasiproximity spaces.
Reference Books
a) K.D. Joshi, Introduction to General Topology, New Age International, New Delhi, 2017.
b) J.R. Munkres, Topology, 2nd Ed., Pearson Education India, 2002.
c) N. Bourbaki, General Topology Part-I (Transl.), Addison Wesley, Reading, 1989.
d) J. G. Hocking, C. S. Young, Topology, Addison-Wesley, Reading, 2012.
e) J. Dugundji, Topology, Allyn and Bacon, Inc, 1966.
f) J.L. Kelley, General Topology, Van Nostrand, Princeton, 1955.
g) M.G. Murdeswar, General Topology, New Age International, 1990.
h) S. T. Hu, Elements of General Topology, Holden-Day, San Francisco, 1964.
i) S. Willard, General Topology, Addison Wesley, Reading Mass, 2004.
* * * * * *
Page No - 64 of 67

--- Page 65 ---
BSMS 10th Semester
[Elective – II & Elective – III]
Fuzzy Mathematics
Fuzzy Relations
Fuzzy relations on fuzzy sets, composition of fuzzy relations, Types of fuzzy relations, similarity methods,
fuzzy graphs.
Fuzzy Functions
Fuzzy functions on fuzzy sets, image and inverse image of fuzzy sets, Integration and differentiation of
fuzzy functions.
Fuzzy Matrix
Sum, multiplication of two fuzzy matrices, Idempotent fuzzy matrix and their problems.
Fuzzy Rough Set
Introduction to rough set, Fuzzy rough set, soft sets and application.
Fuzzy Topology
Chang’s definition and Lowen’s definition, basic concepts, fuzzy open sets, fuzzy closed sets, fuzzy interior
& fuzzy closure, fuzzy continuous function, lower (upper) semi continuous functions, their basic properties,
subspaces, product spaces, quotient spaces, intuitionistic fuzzy topological spaces, Induced fuzzy topology,
Separation axioms in fuzzy topological spaces, Fuzzy filter and fuzzy net, Fuzzy compact spaces, Fuzzy
connected space and fuzzy countability axioms.
Reference Books
a) H. J. Zimmermann, Fuzzy Set Theory and Its Applications, Allied Publisher’s Limited, 2014.
b) Robert Babuška, Fuzzy Modelling for Control, International Series in Intelligent Technologies,
Volume 12, 2012.
a) N. Palaniappan, Fuzzy Topology, Norosa, 2006
* * * * * *
BSMS 10th Semester
[Elective – II & Elective – III]
Decision Theory and Computational Statistics
Decision Theory
Games and statistical games, Statistical decision problem, Decision function, Risk function, Prior and
posterior distribution, Baye’s risk and Baye’s rules.
Least favourable prior, Minimaxity, Admissibility and complete classes, Admissibility of Baye’s rules,
Existence of minimal complete class and Baye’s rules.
The Supporting and Separating Hyperplane theorems, Essential completeness of the class of nonrandomized
rules, Minimax and complete class theorems.
Page No - 65 of 67

--- Page 66 ---
Solving for minimax rules, Essential completeness of class of rules based on sufficient statistics, Continuity of
risk function, Invariant decision problems, Admissible and minimax invariant decision rules.
Computational Statistic
Analysis of variance, one- way and two – way classification. Concept of design of experiment, Some standard
design: Completely randomized design, randomized block design , Latin Squares, Graeco Latin Squares and
Factorial Design Confounding and blocking in Factorial design, fractional factorial design.
Simple and multiple regression models. Classical techniques of Time series analysis, Smoothing and
decomposition, Analysis of covariance model.
Reference Books
a) James O. Berger, Statistical Decision Theory, Foundation, Concepts and Methods, Springer series in
Statistics, 1980.
b) J. E. Gentle and Wolfgang HSrdle, Yuichi Mori, Handbook of computational statistics: Concepts
and methods, 2004.
c) James O Berger, Statistical Decision Theory and Bayesian Analysis, Springer series, 2nd
edition, 1993
* * * * * *
BSMS 10th Semester
[Elective – II & Elective – III]
Financial Mathematics
Introduction
Some Basic definitions and terminology.
Basic Theory of Option Pricing
Single and Multi-Period Binomial Pricing Models, Cox-Ross Rubinstein (CRR) Model, Black-Scholes
Formula for Option Pricing as a Limit of CRR Model.
Stochastic Calculus
Brownian and Geometric Brownian Motion, Theory of Martingales. Stochastic Calculus, Stochastic
Differential Equations, Ito’s Formula to Solve SDE’s. Applications of Stochastic Calculus in Option Pricing.
Mean-Variance Portfolio Theory
Markowitz Model of Portfolio Optimization and Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM). Limitations of
Markowitz Model and New Measures of Risk.
Interest Rates and Interest Rate Derivatives
Binomial Lattice Model, Vasicek, Hull and White Models for Bond Pricing.
Reference Books
a) D. G. Luenberger, Investment Science, Oxford University Press, 2013.
b) M. Capińsky, T. Zastawniak, Mathematics for Finance: An Introduction to Financial
Engineering, Springer, 2010.
c) Thomas Mikosch, Elementary Stochastic Calculus with Finance in view, World Scientific,
1998.
Page No - 66 of 67

--- Page 67 ---
d) Suresh Chandra, S. Dharmaraja, Aparna Mehra, R. Khemchandani, Financial Mathematics:
An Introduction, Narosa Publishing House, 2013.
e) S. E. Shreve, Stochastic Calculus for Finance, Vol. I & Vol. II, Springer, 2010.
f) Sean Dineen, Probability Theory in Finance: A Mathematical Guide to the Black-Scholes
Formula, American Mathematical Society, Indian edition, 2013.
* * * * * *
BSMS 10th Semester
Syllabus for industrial project will be specified by the respective industry.
* * * * * *
Page No - 67 of 67