
--- Page 1 ---
POST GRADUATE SYLLABUS
FOR
COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS & SIGNAL
PROCESSING
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATION
ENGINEERING
BARJALA, AGARTALA - 799046

--- Page 2 ---
FOREWORD
Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of NIT Agartala awards the degree of
Master of Technology (M.Tech) in two different specializations, i.e. i)Communication Systems
& Signal Processing and ii) VLSI Design.
The course structures of all post graduate degree programmes are carrying a total of 80 credits
and 2000 marks. Semester wise distribution of course and credits are as follows. First semester
25 credits and 800 marks for five theory subjects, two laboratory subjects and seminar, second
semester 25 credits and 800 marks for four theory subjects, two laboratory subjects,
comprehensive viva-voce and project preliminaries; Third Semester 10 credits and 100 marks,
fourth semester 20 credits and 300 marks. Third and fourth semester of PG courses will be fully
devoted ton project works. Minimum requirement of number of class hours for each theory
course is 40 hours per semester.
There will be continuous assessment of the performance of students throughout the semester.
Each theory subject in a semester is evaluated for 100 marks, with the following weightage
sub-component weightage. Continuous evaluation 30 marks (Attendance: 5 marks, Quiz: 5
marks, Class test 10 marks, Assignment 10 marks); Mid-Semester Examination 20 marks; and
End-Semester Examination 50 marks.
The course curriculum of all post-graduate programmes are designed considering the
Programme Outcomes as formulated by National Board of accreditation (NBA)
Expert opinions are being taken on a regular basis in order to improve the quality of teaching
learning process and to attain the programme outcomes efficiently.
In the final year of M.Tech Programmes (third and fourth semesters) students may also opt
industrial research. If any student desire to pursue his/her research in reputed industries, he/she
may be allowed to do so, provided:
a. The selected industry is a permanent member of NASSCOM, FICCI and other such
industry bodied.
b. The selected industry needs is approved by the DPPC of the concerned department.
c. The student selects one supervisor from industry and another supervisor form the
Institute.
d. If any students opt for such industrial research he/she will not receive any scholarship
from the institute in this tenure, even if he/she wants to return back. In such cases the
student will be allowed to complete his/her project in the institute but without any
scholarship.
Page i

--- Page 3 ---
Vision and Mission of ECE Department
Vision
Department is committed to impart high level of Teaching, Conducting up to date
research along with technical skill so that the department can excel in the fields of
teaching and research at national and international level and to cope with the latest
demand of industry, academia and research in Electronics & Communication
Engineering.
Mission
I. To provide high quality undergraduate and graduate education in the field of Electronics
and Communication Engineering.
II. To promote research and development.
III. To collect the knowledge and expertise and to cater the people and to work for the
development of the society at large.
IV. To develop and promote a smooth and friendly academic industry relationship.
V. To make the department more conductive for professional and personal development
so as to attract good professionals and academicians from all over the country and
abroad.
Page ii

--- Page 4 ---
Program Outcomes (POs)
PO1: Ability to independently carry out research/investigation and development to solve
practical problems.
PO2: Ability to write and present substantial technical report/document
PO3: Students should be able to demonstrate a degree of mastery over the area as per the
specialization of the program. The mastery should be at a level higher than the requirements
in the appropriate bachelor program.
PO4: Ability to identify, formulate, and solve Communication Systems & Signal Processing
related problems using advanced level computing techniques.
PO5: Ability to understand the impact of Communication Systems & Signal Processing
solutions in a global, economic, environmental and societal context.
PO6: Ability to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management
principles and apply these to multidisciplinary environment..
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
1. To develop a sound knowledge in the field related to Communication and Signal
Processing to serve as a competent engineer.
2. To develop a sound knowledge in theory and practical related to Communication and
Signal Processing to prove the ability to work in any interdisciplinary areas.
3. To acquire the proper skill and techniques to apply in the industrial fields.
4. To be acquainted with the latest technology so as to be placed in the best industries in
the country and abroad.
5. To acquire a strong sound knowledge in the mathematical theory and related
computation using recent software.
Program Specific Objectives (PSOs)
1. To create powerful competent engineers acceptable to any relevant industry all over
the world.
2. To acquire sound knowledge in more than one sub-areas of Communication and
Signal Processing to pursue research.
Page iii

--- Page 5 ---
Course structure for M. Tech in Communication Systems &
Signal Processing
Semester-I
Sl.No. Subject L T P Hours/Week Credit
1 Linear Algebra &Stochastic Processes 3 1 0 4 4
2 Advanced Digital Signal Processing 3 1 0 4 4
3 Advanced Digital Communication 3 1 0 4 4
4 Elective-I 3 1 0 4 4
5 Elective-II 3 1 0 4 4
6 Laboratory–I(Advanced Digital Communication
0 0 3 3 2
Laboratory)
7 Laboratory –II(Advanced DSP Laboratory) 0 0 3 3 2
8 Seminar 0 0 2 2 1
Total 28 25
Semester-II
Sl.No. Subject L T P Hours/Week Credit
1 Estimation and Detection Theory 3 1 0 4 4
2 Mobile Communication 3 1 0 4 4
3 Switching & Communication Networks 3 1 0 4 4
4 Elective-III 3 1 0 4 4
5 Laboratory –III (Optical Fibre Communication
0 0 3 3 2
/Wireless Communication Laboratory)
6 Laboratory –IV(Advanced RF Laboratory) 0 0 3 3 2
7 Project Preliminary 0 0 6 6 3
8 Comprehensive Viva-Voce - - - - 2
Total 28 25
Semester-III
Sl.No. Subject L T P Hours/Week Credit
1 Project & Thesis-I - - - - 10
Semester-IV
Sl.No. Subject L T P Hours/Week Credit
1 Project & Thesis-II - - - - 20
Total Credit 80
4 | P a g e

--- Page 6 ---
List of Electives
Sl.No. Elective Name of the Course
1. Antenna Theory and Design
2. Smart Antenna
3. Microwave & Millimeter Wave Devices
4. Radar Signal Processing
Elective-I
5. Microwave Circuits, Systems and
Application
6. Cryptography & Network Security
7. Light Wave Technology
8. MIMO Communication Systems
9. Optical Communication Systems
Elective-II
10. Electromagnetic Metamaterials
11. Advanced Control System
12. Digital Control System
13. Advanced Microwave Circuits
14. Fundamentals of Antenna and Design
15. Remote Sensing and Navigational Systems
16. Optoelectronic Devices & Circuits
Elective-III
17. Laser Science & Technology
18. Metaheuristic Algorithms & their
applications
19. Electromagnetic Interference &
Compatibility
5 | P a g e

--- Page 7 ---
Semester-I
Linear Algebra & Stochastic Processes L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 Introduction to Probability , Random Process and Linear Algebra
 Application of linear algebra in theoretical analysis of the communication systems.
 Application of the concepts of Probability & Random Process to solve problems in
Communication Systems and Signal Processing.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Vector spaces, Vector sub spaces of a matrix, Rank-Nullity Theorem, Projection theorem, linear
transformation matrix with different basis- Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization procedure, QR factorization,
Eigen values, Eigenvectors, Singular values, Singular vectors, Computation of Eigen values and
Eigenvectors, Eigen vectors of a symmetric positive definite matrix and its meaning. Diagonalization of a
matrix and applications, Singular Value Decomposition, Derivatives of scalars w.r.t a vector, Jacobian.
Module-2
Probability spaces, Random variables and random vectors, Distributions and densities-Conditional
distributions and densities, Independent random variables, Transformation of random variables
Expectations, Moment generating function, Characteristic function, Multiple random variable, Gaussian
random vector. Co-variance matrix, Complex random variables, Sequence of random variable, Central limit
theorem.
Module-3
Strictly stationary random process. Wide sense stationary random process. Complex random
process. Jointly strictly and wide sense stationary of two random processes. Correlation matrix obtained
from random process, Ergodic process, Independent random process, Uncorrelated random process,
Random process as the input and output of the system, Power spectral density, White random process,
Gaussian random process, Cyclo-stationary random process, Wide sense cyclo-stationary random process.
Module-4
Sampling and reconstruction of random process, BandPass random process, Applications of Linear
algebra and stochastic process for telecommunication.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. G.Strang, Linear Algebra, Thomson Brooks/Cole Cengage Hill
2. Peter J. Olver, Applied Linear Algebra, Pearson Education
3. A.Papoulis, S.U.Pillai, Probability, Random variables and Stochastic Processes, TataMcGraw Hill
4. GeoffreyGrimmett, Probability and Random Processes, Oxford University Press
6 | P a g e

--- Page 8 ---
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Apply probability and matrix theory to solve stochastic models.
CO2: Solve stochastic process problems mathematically and using software.
CO3: Identify and apply the most appropriate stochastic process technique for a given applied problem.
CO4: Interpret and understand the solution for a stochastic process application.
CO5: Be familiar with the usage of random process in telecommunication engineering and to solve the
corresponding problems.
7 | P a g e

--- Page 9 ---
Advanced Digital Signal Processing L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To provide rigorous foundations in multirate signal processing,
 To provide the knowledge of design & analysis of Adaptive Filters and their applications.
 To provide knowledge on different methods of Spectrum Estimation.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Review of sampling theory, sampling rate conversion by integer and rational factors, efficient
realization and applications of sampling rate conversion
Module-2
Wiener filtering. Optimum linear prediction. Levinson- Durbin algorithm, Prediction error filters,
Adaptive filters, FIR adaptive LMS algorithm, Convergence of adaptive algorithms, Fast algorithms,
Applications: Noise canceller, echo canceller and equalizer.
Module-3
Recursive least squares algorithms, Matrix inversion lemma, Convergence analysis of the RLS
algorithm, Adaptive beam forming, Kalman filtering.
Module-4
Spectrum estimation, Estimation of autocorrelation, Periodogram method, Nonparametric methods.
Parametric methods
.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. S.Haykin, Adaptive Filter Theory, Prentice- Hall
2. M.H. Hayes, Statistical Digital Signal Processing and Modeling, John Wiley
3. J.G.Proakis, D.M. Manolakis, Digital Signal Processing, Prentice Hall
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Apply multirate DSP for applications and design efficient digital filters & construct multichannel
filter banks.
CO2: Apply linear filtering techniques to engineering problems.
CO3: Solve adaptive filter problems.
CO4: Analyze the various adaptive filter algorithms.
CO5: Understand and analyze the statistical properties of the conventional spectral estimators.
8 | P a g e

--- Page 10 ---
9 | P a g e

--- Page 11 ---
Advanced Digital Communication L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To review and enhance the knowledge of different digital communication schemes.
 To study the different types of digital Amplitude, Frequency, Phase Keying, different M-array and
hybrid Amplitude-Phase, Phase-Frequency keying techniques for high performance modern
communication systems.
 To aware of noise performance of different carrier modulation schemes passing through additive
white Gaussian noise (AWGN) channels and accordingly to design optimum receiver.
 To make students aware of interference (Inter Symbol Interference (ISI)) due to non-ideal / non
linear channel andto minimize the effects of ISI, and thereby deliver the digital data to its destination
with the smallest possible error rate.
 To convert the channel into an equivalent AWGN at each time ‘k’ by using adaptive receivers and
equalizers.
 To familiar with carrier and clock synchronization or recovery circuits to avoid the effects of phase
shifting and timing jitter.
 To enhance the knowledge of different channel coding techniques and their performance
evaluation.
 To understand the coded modulation schemes to increase the minimum distance between the signals
that are the most likely to be confused, without increasing the average signal power and to study
the digital transmission over fading channels.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1:
Review of digital modulation schemes and receivers in additive white Gaussian noise channels,
CPM, MSK, CPFSK.
Module 2:
Inter symbol interference, Adaptive receivers and channel equalization: MMSE, ZFE, FSE, Carrier
and clock synchronization, Effects of phase and timing jitter.
Module 3:
Channel Coding techniques: Linear Block codes, Cyclic codes, Convolution codes and their
performance evaluation.
Module 4:
Coded modulation schemes: TCM, Turbo codes, Digital transmission over fading channels.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. S. Benedetto and E.Biglieri, Principles of Digital Transmission with Wireless Applications, Kluwer
Academic.
2. B. P. Lathi, Z. Ding, Modern Digital and Analog Communication Systems, Oxford University Press
3. J. G.Proakis, Digital Communications, McGraw Hill
10 | P a g e

--- Page 12 ---
4. S.Haykin, Digital Communication Systems, John Wiley
5. H. Taub and D. L.Schilling, Principles of Communication Systems, McGraw Hill.
6. U. Madhow, “Fundamentals of Digital Communication”, Cambridge University Press.
COURSE OUTCOME:
After successful completion of this course, students
CO1: Will have enhanced knowledge of different digital communication schemes for high speed modern
communication.
CO2: Will learn to design optimum receivers to obtain correct decision in presence of channel noise.
CO3: Will earn sufficient knowledge regarding signal dispersion and fading, and their impact (ISI) due to
channel characteristics and accordingly will learn how to take correct decision in presence of ISI.
CO4: Will capable to measure ISI and to convert the channel into an equivalent AWGN by designing
adaptive receivers and equalizers.
CO5: Will familiar with carrier and clock synchronization or recovery circuits to avoid the effects of
phase shifting and timing jitter.
CO6: Will have knowledge of Channel Coding techniques and Coded modulation schemes desired for
advanced digital communication.
11 | P a g e

--- Page 13 ---
Semester-II
Estimation and Detection Theory L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To have some idea about the hypothesis testing in an ensemble of random data.
 To have knowledge about signal detection under various noise environments.
 To learn about various theories of estimation in random data assembly.
 To learn about non stationary filters for signal detection.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Binary hypothesis testing, Bayes, mini- max and Neyman-Pearson tests, Composite hypothesis
testing.
Module-2
Signal detection in discrete time: Models and detector structures. Coherent detection in independent
noise. Detection in Gaussian noise. Detection of signals with random parameters. Detection of stochastic
signals. Performance evaluation of signal detection procedures.
Module-3
Bayesian parameter estimation, MMSE, MMAE and MAP estimates. Nonrandom parameter
estimation. Exponential families. Completeness theorem. ML estimation. Information inequality.
Asymptotic properties of MLEs.
Module-4
Discrete time Kalman-Bucy filter. Linear estimation. Orthogonality principle. Wiener-
Kolmogorov filtering – causal and non -causal filters.
Module-5
Signal detection in continuous time: Detection of deterministic signals in Gaussian noise. Coherent
detection in white Gaussian noise.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. H.V.Poor, Introduction to Signal Detection and Estimation, Springer.
2. B.C.Levy, Priciples of Signal Detection and Parameter Estimation, Springer
3. H.L.Vantrees, Detection, Estimation and Modulation theory, Part I, Wiley.
4. M.D.Srinath&P.K.Rajasekaran, Statistical Signal Processing with Applications, Wiley
5. J.C.Hancock& P.A. Wintz, Signal Detection Theory, Mc-Graw Hill, 1966.
12 | P a g e

--- Page 14 ---
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: To be able to gain the basic concept of hypothesis testing in random data assembly.
CO2: To have the idea of detection of original signal under different noises.
CO3: To be able to understand about different signals under different time and sample domain.
CO4: To learn the concept of stationary and non-stationary filters.
13 | P a g e

--- Page 15 ---
Mobile Communication L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To make students familiar with fundamentals of wireless and mobile communication systems and
to impart an introduction to radio wave propagation techniques for mobile wireless radio.
 To discuss various multiple access techniques for wireless communication and choose system
(TDMA/FDMA/CDMA) according to the complexity, installation cost, speed of transmission,
channel properties etc.
 To identify the requirements of mobile communication as compared to static communication.
 To identify the limitations of 2G and 2.5G wireless mobile communication and use design of 3G
/4G and beyond mobile communication systems.
COURSE CONTENT:
Evolution of mobile radio Communication From 1G to2G systems, 2.5G Mobile Radio networks, 3G/4G
Wireless networks, WLAN
Module-1
Introduction and Basic system Design: Cellular concept Cellular system, Frequency re-use , Co-
channel interference and its reduction GOS, Frequency Spectrum, utilization, Traffic and channel
assignments, various handoff strategies, Analog and digital cellular systems. Loss Models for Mobile Radio
Propagation: Point to point Propagation. Model, Foliage loss, Free space propagation model, Reflection,
Diffraction analysis using Fresnel zone geometry and knife Edge diffraction model, Outdoor Propagation
models, Indoor propagation models, signal penetration into buildings . scale Fading and Multipath: Causes
of fading ,Reciprocity theorem Amplitude and Selective fading Doppler shift ,Impulse response model of
multipath Channel, Doppler spread and Rican distributions, Statistical analysis of Multipath fading
channels, fading behavior analysis using channel models, Bit error rate and word error rate in fading
Environment.
Module-2
Design Parameter for Mobile Radio Network: Antenna location, Antenna Spacing and heights
for base station and mobile units, Antenna configurations for Base Environment, Frequency dependence of
mobile unit Diversity schemes of mobile Unit, Antenna connection’s locations on mobile unit. Modulation
techniques –MSK-GMSK spread spectrum modulation multicarrier modulation (OFDM,MC-CDMA
techniques).
Module-3
Multiple Access Techniques: Frequency division multiple access, Time division multiple access,
Spread spectrum multiple access, space division multiple access, Pure and slotted ALOHA, CSMA
protocols, Reservation protocols.
14 | P a g e

--- Page 16 ---
Module-4
Cellular systems: ARQ Techniques, Digital mobile telephony system, GSM architecture, services
and features, GSM channels, CDMA digital cellular standard, Forward and reverse CDMA channel.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. T. Rappaport, Wireless Communication, Pearson Education
2. A. Goldsmith, Wireless Communications, Cambridge University Press
3. D. Tse, P. Viswanath, Fundamentals of Wireless Communication, Cambridge University Press
4. V.K. Garg, Wireless Communications & Networking, Elsevier
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: To make students familiar with various generations of mobile communications and basics of
wireless communication.
CO2: Knowledge of GSM mobile communication standard, its architecture, logical channels,
advantages and limitations.
CO3: To understand the concept of tele-traffic engineering
CO4: To understand various Wireless LANs and multicarrier communication systems.
15 | P a g e

--- Page 17 ---
Switching and Communication Networks L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To understand the principles of switching systems from manual and electromechanical to
electronic systems.
 To provide the understanding of traffic engineering in telecommunication system along
with the network architecture of modern day communication systems.
 To familiarize with the theory of Data communication components, networks and systems.
 To provide the understanding of principle of ISDN.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction to Telecommunication Switching: Evolution of Telecommunications, Simplex-
duplex telephone communication, Elements of switching systems, Structure of rotary dial telephone, Step
by step switching, Touch tone dial telephone, Principles of crossbar switching & crossbar exchange
organizations. Electronic Space Division Switching: Centralized SPC with dual processor architecture,
Levels of processing in Distributed SPC, Enhanced services, Design and determination of blocking
probability of two stage and N stage networks. Time division multiplexing. Time Division Switching: Time
division space switching with input-controlled and output–controlled configuration, Time multiplexed
space switch.
Module-2
Telecommunication Traffic Modeling and Analysis: Various parameters of network traffic,
GOS and blocking probability, Types of stochastic processes, Markov and Birth-Death processes, Poisson
process, Blocking models and loss estimates, Erlang B formula, Delay systems with queuing configuration,
Erlang C formula.
Module-3
Introduction to Communication Networks and Services: Data communication components,
Data representation, Categories of networks (LAN, MAN, WAN), Unified view of OSI reference model,
TCP/IP architecture and protocols, Physical structure connection and topology. Circuit and Packet
Switching Systems: Circuit switched network routing tables; hierarchical routing, the Bellman-ford
algorithm, Dijkstra's algorithm.
Module-4
ISDN and Other Modern Networks: ISDN services, Network and protocol architecture,
Transmission channels & multiplexing schemes, ISDN message format and address structure,
Internetworking of ISDN with other networks, Broadband ISDN, Brief architecture and operation of cable
modem, DSL Technology, WLAN: IEEE 802.11, Introduction to Bluetooth.
16 | P a g e

--- Page 18 ---
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. Wireless Communication: Rappaport, Second Edition, Pearson
2. William C.Y.Lee, Mobile Cellular Telecommunications-Analog & Digital Systems, Mc.Graw Hill
3. Computer organization and design: the hardware/software interface/David A. Patterson, John L.
Hennessy
4. Telecommunication Switching Systems and Networks 2nd Edition by Thiagarajan Viswanathan.
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Describe and apply fundamentals of switching in telecommunication systems and its
associated technologies.
CO2: Apply the principles of queuing theory in evaluating the performance of congested
telecommunication networks and explain the reasons for switching, and the relative merits of the
possible switching modes, e.g. packet and circuit switching.
CO3: Understand the principles of the internal design and operation of telecommunication traffic
modelling.
CO4: Understand the principles of Data communication and Networks components, procedure and
types.
17 | P a g e

--- Page 19 ---
ELECTIVES
Antenna Theory and Design L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To provide an in-depth understanding of modern antenna concepts, and practical antenna
design for various applications.
 To familiarize with the essential parameters of antenna theory.
 To understand the basics of radiation pattern of different types of antennas.
 To study the different types of antenna and their application.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-I
Fundamental Concepts: Radiation pattern, near- and far-field regions, reciprocity, directivity and
gain, effective aperture, polarization, input impedance, efficiency, Friis transmission equation, radiation
integrals and auxiliary potential functions.
Module-2
Radiation from Wires and Loops: Infinitesimal dipole, finite-length dipole, linear elements near
conductors, dipoles for mobile communication, small circular loop.
Module-3
Aperture Antennas: Huygens’ Principle, radiation from rectangular and circular apertures, design
considerations, Babinet’s principle, and Fourier transform method in aperture antenna theory.
Module-4
Horn and Reflector Antennas: Radiation from sectoral and pyramidal horns, design concepts,
prime-focus parabolic reflector and casse-grain antennas.
Module-5
Microstrip Antennas: Basic characteristics, feeding methods, methods of analysis, design of
rectangular and circular patch antennas.
Module-6
Antenna Arrays: Analysis of uniformly spaced arrays with uniform and non-uniform excitation
amplitudes, beam forming, extension to planar arrays, synthesis of antenna arrays using Schelkunoff
polynomial method, Fourier transform.
18 | P a g e

--- Page 20 ---
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. C.A. Balanis, “Antenna Theory: Analysis and Design’, Wiley
2. J.D Kraus, R. J. Marhefka and A. Khan, Antennas and Wave Propagation, MGH
3. R. S. Elliot, “Antenna Theory and Design”, Wiley
4. R. Garg, P.Bhartia, I. Bhal and A. Ittipiboon, “Microstrip Antenna Design Handbook”, Artech House 6.
G. Kumar and K.P. Ray, Broad Band Microstrip Antennas, Artech House.
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Understand the basics and theory behind antenna radiation mechanisms, point sources, small-
wave dipoles, and half-wave dipoles.
CO2: Understand and apply the various figures of merit for antennas such as radiation pattern,
gain, polarization, efficiency, bandwidth, and others.
CO3: Learn about, and design various types of wire antennas, such as dipoles, loops, arrays,
Yagi-Uda and logarithmic.
CO4: Learn about patch antennas, microstrips, MIMOs, mobile antennas and smart antennas.
19 | P a g e

--- Page 21 ---
Smart Antenna L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To gain understanding and achieve familiarity with smart antenna environments.
 To understand algorithms and their implementation.
 To apply the concepts in Smart Antenna system design
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction, Need of Smart Antenna Systems, Overview of smart antenna systems, The Vector
Channel Impulse Response and the Spatial Signature, Spatial Processing Receivers, Fixed Beam
forming Networks, Switched Beam Systems, Hybrid Beamformer, Overview of distributed beam
forming, interference rejection using adaptive antennas.
Module-2
Adaptive Antenna Systems, Wideband Smart Antennas, Diversity Techniques, Multiple Input -
Multiple Output (MIMO) Communications Systems, MIMO for frequency selective scenarios.
SDMA using smart antennas
Module-3
Sample matrix inversion algorithm, unconstrained LMS algorithm, normalized LMS algorithm,
Constrained LMS algorithm, Perturbation algorithms, neural network approach, Adaptive beam
space processing, Implementation issues.
Module-4
Direction of Arrival (DOA) Estimation for smart antennas: Spectral estimation methods, linear
prediction method, Maximum entropy method, Maximum likelihood method, Eigen structure
methods, MUSIC algorithm – root music and cyclic music algorithm, the ESPRIT algorithm.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. R.A. Monzingo, R.A. Haupt, W.H. Miller, Introduction to Adaptive Arrays, SciTech Publishing Inc
2. Frank Gross, Smart Antennas for Wireless Communications, McGraw Hill
3. Ahmed El-Zooghby, Smart Antenna Engineering, Artech House Publishers
4. Constantine Balanis, Introduction to Smart Antennas, Morgan and Claypool Publishers
20 | P a g e

--- Page 22 ---
5. J. Liberti, T.S. Rappaport, Smart Antennas for Wireless Communications-IS-95 and Third Generation
CDMA Applications, Prentice Hall
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Compare the performances of digital radio receivers and software radios.
CO2: Study the CDMA spatial processors to analyze the multi-cell systems.
CO3: Analyze the channel models for smart antenna systems.
CO4: Study the environmental parameters for signal processing of smart antenna systems.
CO5: Evaluate the requirements for the design and implementation of smart antenna systems.
21 | P a g e

--- Page 23 ---
Microwave & Millimeter Wave Devices L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To understand the basics of microwave device physics.
 To familiarize with operation and characteristics of various microwave devices and circuits such
as klystron, TWT, magnetrons.
 To Study the application of RF and Microwave devices.
 To study three terminal Microwave devices.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
RF and Microwave tubes: Vacuum tube microwave device physics: Beam field interaction; power
frequency limitation, device size limitations; special features of microwave tubes. Non relativistic electron
tubes, Parallel field type – Klystron, Reflex Klystron, Helix TWT, coupled cavity TWT, Twystrons;
Crossed field type – magnetrons, FWCFA, carcinotron. Relativistic electron tubes: gyrotrons; free electron
LASER.
Module-2
RF and Microwave Devices: Diodes; high-frequency equivalent circuit; Schottky barrier diode;
varactor diode; PIN diode; Applications, Tunnel diodes, Quantum tunneling mechanism, Impact ionization;
IMPATT and other related diodes; small-signal analysis and model of IMPATT diode; TRAPATT;
BARRITT, Transferred electron devices; differential negative resistance and two-valley model of Gunn
Effect devices; modes of operation; waveguide cavity Gunn oscillator.
Module-3
Three terminal devices: BJT, MESFET, MOSFET, HFET, HEMT – device physics,
characteristics, model, Three terminal devices; BJT, MESFET, MOSFET, HFET, HEMT – device physics,
characteristics, model.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. A. S. Gilmour, “Microwave Tubes”, Artech House
2. K. C. Gupta, Microwaves, New Age International
3. S. Y. Liao, Microwave Devices and Circuits, Pearson Education
4. R. E. Collin, Foundations for Microwave Engineering, Wiley
5. S. Das, Microwave Engineering, Oxford University Press
6. M. L. Sisodia, “Microwave Active Devices: Vacuum and Solid State, New Age Publishers
COURSE OUTCOME:
22 | P a g e

--- Page 24 ---
The student after undergoing this course will be able to:
CO1: Explain different types of RF and Microwave tubes and their features.
CO2: Differentiate the working of various tubes and their applications.
CO3: Explain working of microwave active devices such as ATT, TED and tunnel diode etc
CO4: Describe and explain working of microwave tubes and solid-state devices.
23 | P a g e

--- Page 25 ---
Radar Signal Processing L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To achieve understanding of the principles of Signal Processing techniques used in Radar
Systems.
 To apply the concepts in real time processing of RADAR signals
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction: Radar Block Diagram, Radar Equation, Information Available from Radar Echo.
Review of Radar Range Performance– General Radar Range Equation, Radar Detection with Noise
Jamming, Beacon and Repeater Equations, Bistatic Radar, Matched Filter Receiver – Impulse
Response, Frequency Response Characteristic and its Derivation, Matched Filter and Correlation
Function, Correlation Detection and Cross-Correlation Receiver, Efficiency of Non Matched Filters,
Matched Filter for Non-White Noise.
Module-2
Detection of Radar Signals in Noise: Detection Criteria – Neyman-Pearson Observer, Likelihood-
Ratio Receiver, Inverse Probability Receiver, Sequential Observer, Detectors – Envelope Detector,
Logarithmic Detector, I/Q Detector. Automatic Detection - CFAR Receiver, Cell Averaging CFAR
Receiver, CFAR Loss, CFAR Uses in Radar, Radar Signal Management – Schematics, Component Parts,
Resources and Constraints, RADAR System Losses.
Module-3
Waveform Selection: Radar Ambiguity Function and Ambiguity Diagram – Principles and
Properties; Specific Cases – Ideal Case, Single Pulse of Sine Wave, Periodic Pulse Train, Single Linear
FM Pulse, Noise Like Waveforms, Waveform Design Requirements, Optimum Waveforms for
Detection in Clutter, Family of Radar Waveforms, Radar and its composite environment, Review of Radar
range performance computations, Detection Processes, Sequential and adaptive processes, Atmospheric
effects, Sea and land Back scatter, Signal Processing concepts and waveform designs MTI & CW radars,
phase coding techniques, FM pulse compression waveforms, Meteoroidal Radar and system performance
analysis, Monopulse radars, Amplitude Comparison Monopulse & Phase Comparison Monopulse, error
signal of amplitude comparison Monopulse, Phased Array RADAR.
Module-4
Pulse Compression in Radar Signals: Introduction, Significance, Types, Linear FM Pulse
Compression – Block Diagram, Characteristics, Reduction of Time Sidelobes, Stretch Techniques,
Generation and Decoding of FM Waveforms – Block Schematic and Characteristics of Passive
System, Digital Compression, SAW Pulse Compression.
24 | P a g e

--- Page 26 ---
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. R.J Sullivan, Radar Foundations for imaging and Advanced Concepts, PHI.
2. F.E Nathanson, Radar Design Principles, Signal Processing and the Environment, PHI.
3. J.C. Toomay, Principles of Radar, PHI.
4. M. Skolnik, Introduction to Radar Systems, McGraw Hill
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Understand the principles of Radar Systems and Signal Processing techniques.
CO2: Detect radar signals in noise using different receivers.
CO3: Analyze the properties of Ambiguity function and waveform design requirements.
CO4: Describe the concepts of pulse compression Radar.
25 | P a g e

--- Page 27 ---
Microwave Circuits, Systems and L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
Application
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To have the basic idea of microwave passive circuits and their methods of representation.
 To learn about the concept of periodic structures in microwave circuits
 To have some knowledge about the design principles of microwave oscillators and amplifiers
 To collect the basic knowledge of mobile communication
 To have some knowledge about the fundamentals of radar systems.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Microwave Circuits: Lumped and distributed circuit elements at RF and microwave frequencies,
transmission lines for RF & microwave circuits, Discontinuity Model, Impedance Matching Using Smith
Chart. Network Parameters, ABCD, Z, Y, S, S -parameter description of passive and active networks,
network concept. Periodic structures and Design of filters. Attenuators: Fixed Digital & Programmable
Attenuators
Module-2
Network concept. Periodic structures and Design of filters. Attenuators: Fixed Digital &
Programmable Attenuators.
Module-3.
Performance and design principles of amplifiers and oscillators using Klystron, Magnetrons: Co-
axial magnetron, inverted co-axial magnetron, voltage tunable magnetron, TWTs: Design of TWT
amplifiers, carcinotrons, Amplitrons
Module-4
Microwave Systems and Application: Mobile Communication: Frequencies, regulations, Signals,
Antennas, Signal propagation, Multiplexing, Modulation Techniques, Satellite networks, Wireless
Application Protocol.
Module-5
Radar: Radar equations for tracking, volume search, jamming and cluttering. Non coherent MTI,
MTI from moving platform, Pulse compression radar, Phased array, synthetic aperture radars, Radar
antenna systems, ECCM techniques
26 | P a g e

--- Page 28 ---
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. S. L. Liao, Microwave Devices and Circuits, Pearson
2. D.M. Pozar, Microwave Engineering, John Wiley
3. R.E. Collin, Foundations for Microwave Engineering, John Wiley
4. M. Skolnik, Introduction to Radar Systems, McGraw Hill
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: To be able to learn the basic difference between the concept of lower frequency circuits and
microwave circuits.
CO2: To collect the knowledge about the mathematical methods of representing the periodic microwave
passive structures.
CO3: To understand the concept of design of microwave oscillators and amplifiers.
CO4: To learn the basic idea about mobile communication techniques.
CO5: To understand the principles of various radar systems.
27 | P a g e

--- Page 29 ---
Cryptography & Network Security L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To have an understanding of the fundamentals of Cryptography.
 To know the goals of cryptography e.g. data secrecy, message integrity, non-repudiation and
authentication.
 To have a knowledge of the prominent techniques for private key encryption, hashing and message
authentication e.g, DES, AES, SHA-1, HMAC.
 To understand the difference between private key cryptography and public key cryptography.
 To have knowledge of the prominent techniques for public-key cryptosystems and digital signature
schemes e.g. RSA, ElGamal, EC.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
INTRODUCTION: Security Policies, Model of network security, Security attacks, services and
mechanisms, OSI security architecture, Classical encryption techniques
Module-2
SYMMETRIC KEY CRYPTOGRAPHY: Mathematics of symmetric key cryptography:
Modular arithmetic, Euclid’s algorithm, Linear Congruence, Matrices, Block ciphers and Stream ciphers,
Symmetric key ciphers: DES, Differential and linear cryptanalysis, AES, RC4.
Module-3
PUBLIC KEY CRYPTOGRAPHY: Mathematics of asymmetric key cryptography: Primes,
Primality Testing, Factorization, Euler‘s totient function, Fermat‘s and Euler‘s Theorem, Chinese
Remainder Theorem, Exponentiation and logarithm, Asymmetric Key Ciphers, RSA cryptosystem, Key
distribution, Key management, Diffie- Hellman key exchange , ElGamal cryptosystem, Elliptic curve
arithmetic, Elliptic curve cryptography.
Module-4
MESSAGE AUTHENTICATION AND INTEGRITY: Authentication function, MAC, Hash
function, Security of hash function and MAC, SHA, Digital signature and authentication protocols, DSS,
Entity Authentication: Biometrics, Passwords, Challenge Response protocols- Authentication applications
– Kerberos.
Module-5
SECURITY PRACTICE AND SYSTEM SECURITY: PGP, S/MIME, IP security, Web
Security, System Security: Intruders – Malicious software – viruses –Firewalls, SSL and TSL.
28 | P a g e

--- Page 30 ---
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. William Stallings, Cryptography and Network Security: Principles and Practice, PHI
2. Forouzan and Mukhopadhyay, Cryptography and Network Security, McGraw Hill.
COURSE OUTCOME:
After the completion of the course, students will:
CO1: Have an idea about the basics of cryptography.
CO2: Will understand the difference between private key and public key cryptography.
CO3: Will have knowledge of different enciphering techniques.
CO4: Will have knowledge of digital signature, hash function, key exchange, digital certificate, security
etc.
CO5: Will get an insight in to message authentication and integrity.
29 | P a g e

--- Page 31 ---
Light Wave Technology L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 The objective of this course is to provide an in-depth understanding of optical fiber communication.
To study various types of light sources, photo detectors, amplifiers in optical communication. To
understand the basics of Transmission characteristics of an optical fiber and to design and analyze
optical networks and optical fiber links.
 To provide an in-depth understanding of optical fiber communication
 To study various types of light sources, photo detectors, amplifiers in optical communication
 To understand the basics of Transmission characteristics of an optical fiber.
 To design and analyze opticalnetworks and optical fiber links.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction and fiber optics components: optical fiber; optical cables; splices and connectors;
couplers and dividers
Module-2
Optical sources, detectors and displays for communication: LED; semiconductor LASER; PIN,
APD; CCD; LCD.
Module-3
Transmission and detection systems: intensity modulation; direct and coherent detection; S/N ratio; BER;
WDM.
Module-4
LIDAR and its applications. Optical space communication.
Module-5
Application of fiber optics systems.
Module-6
Broadband technology: fiber optics links – design and systems; application of light wave technology to
microwaves
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. J. M. Senior, “Optical Fiber Communications: Principles and Practice”, Pearson Education India
2. G. Keiser, “Optical Fiber Communication”, McGraw Hill India.
3. T. L. Singal, “Optical Fiber Communications: Principles and Applications”, Cambridge University Press
30 | P a g e

--- Page 32 ---
4. M. Alhaider, “Optical Fiber Communications”, Notion Press
5. C. K. Sarkar and D. C. Sarkar, “Optoelectronics and Fiber Optic Communication”, New Age
International
6. J. Franz and V. K. Jain, “Optical Communication System”, Narosa Pub. House
7. M. Young, “Optics and Lasers including Fibres and Optical Waveguides”, Springer
COURSE OUTCOME:
The student after undergoing this course will be able to:
CO1: Working and design of Optical fiber cables, fiber alignment and splicing Techniques
CO2: Understand the basics of Transmission characteristics and the concept of absorption losses and
Dispersion.
CO3: Understand the construction and working of Optical sources- LEDs and LASERs
CO4: Design and analysis of Optical networks and Optical fiber link design
31 | P a g e

--- Page 33 ---
MIMO Communication Systems L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To provide a comprehensive coverage of MIMO communication systems.
 To introduce the coding techniques used in MIMO systems and their performance analysis.
 To apply the concepts in analysis and design of MIMO Communication Systems.
Module-1
Overview of MIMO communications: Introduction to MIMO, Introduction to Spatial Diversity and
Spatial Multiplexing, MIMO capacity formula, MIMO System Model. Application of MIMO Capacity.
Module-2
Phenomenology of multipath channels, Power law propagation, Impulse response of a multipath
channel, intrinsic multipath channel parameters, Classes of multipath channels, Statistics of small-scale
fading.
Module-3
MIMO channels in LOS geometry, Antenna spacing and scattering angle, Alamouti Coding and
Space-time Coding: Maximal ratio receive combining(MRRC), Maximum likelihood decoding in MRRC
and Alamouti receivers, Performance results, Space-time coding.
Module-4
Spatial Multiplexing: Overview of spatial multiplexing, BLAST architecture, Broadband MIMO,
Narrowband and Broadband MIMO channel estimation
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. Jerry R. Hampton, Introduction to MIMO Communications, Cambridge University Press.
2. Bliss and S. Govindasamy, Adaptive Wireless Communications: MIMO Channels and Networks,
Cambridge University Press
3. Simon Haykin, Michael Moher, Modern Wireless Communications, Pearson.
4. Andrea Goldsmith, Wireless Communication, Cambridge University Press.
5. Jafarkhani, Space-Time Coding: Theory and Practice, Cambridge University Press
COURSE OUTCOME:
32 | P a g e

--- Page 34 ---
CO1: Design precoders for MIMO communication systems.
CO2: Design MIMO communication transceivers with and without channel state information.
CO3: Design space time codes for MIMO systems.
CO4: Analyze and design optimum MIMO Communication systems for given channel conditions.
33 | P a g e

--- Page 35 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
Optical Communication Systems L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To provide an in-depth understanding of optical fiber communication.
 To study various types of light sources, photo detectors, amplifiers in optical communication.
 To understand the basics of Transmission characteristics of an optical fiber and to design and analyze
optical networks and optical fiber links.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Fundamentals of coherent systems: Basic concepts. Modulation and demodulation schemes.
System performance.
Module-2
Semiconductor optical amplifiers. EDFA and Raman amplifiers – modeling and analysis, Analysis
and digital transmission with high power fiber amplifiers.
Module-3
Multichannel systems: WDM light wave systems, TDM and code division multiplexing,
Advances in wavelength division multiplexing / demultiplexing technologies.
Module-4
SONET/SDH, ATM, IP, storage area networks. Wavelength routed networks. Next generation
optical Internets.
Module-5
Soliton systems: Nonlinear effects, Soliton – based communication. High speed and WDM
soliton systems, Fiber based grating, Broadband.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. G.P.Agrawal, “Fiber Optic Communication Systems (4/e)”, Wiley, 2010
2. B.P.Pal , “Guided Wave Optical Components and Devices”, Elsevier , 2006
3. C.S.Murthy&M.Gurusamy, “WDM Optical Networks”, PHI, 2002
4. R.Ramaswami, K.N. Sivarajan, “Optical Networks”, (2/e), Elsevier, 2002.
5. J.M. Senior, Optical Fiber Communications: Principles and Practice, Pearson
6. A Selvarajan, S. Kar, T. Srinivas, “Opticl fiber communication principles and systems”, Tata McGraw
Hill, 2005.
34 | P a g e

--- Page 36 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
COURSE OUTCOME:
At the end of the course student will be able
CO1: Understand the modulation and demodulation schemes in the coherent optical systems.
CO2: Understand the various types of the optical amplifiers
CO3: Analyze various multiplexing techniques used and evaluate the recent advances in this field
CO4: Compare the merits and demerits, potential applications of microwave semiconductor devices.
CO5: Analyze the operating principle of WDM solutions systems.
35 | P a g e

--- Page 37 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
Electromagnetic Metamaterials L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To understand the principles of Metamaterials
 To apply the concepts in design of Metamaterial components
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Definition of Metamaterials & Left handed materials, Theoretical Speculation by Viktor Veselago,
Conventional backward waves & Novelty of LH MTMs, Terminology, Transmission Line Approach
Composite right & Left handed(CRLH) MTMs, MTMS & Photonic Band Gap Structures(PBG), Historical
Germs of MTMs.
Module-2
Fundamentals of LH MTMs: Left handedness from Maxwell’s Equations, Entropy condition in
dispersive media, boundary Conditions, Reversals of Doppler Effect, Radiation, Snell’s Law,
Convergence & Divergence in Convex & Conclave Lenses. Sub wavelength Diffraction.
Module-3
TL Theory of MTMLs: Ideal Homogeneous CRLH TLs, LC Network Implementation, Real
Distributed1D CRLH Structures, Transmission Characteristics, Conversion to Constitutive Parameters.
Two Dimensional MTMs : Eigen Value Problem, Driven Problem by the Transmission Matrix
Method(TMM), Transmission Line Matrix Modelling(TLM), Negative Refractive Index(NRI) Effects,
Distributed 2D Structures, Guided Wave applications, Radiated wave applications.
Module-4
Guided-Wave Applications - Dual-Band Components: Dual-Band Property of CRLH TLs - Quarter
wavelength TL and Stubs - Passive Component Examples: Quadrature Hybrid and Wilkinson Power
Divider - Enhanced-Bandwidth Components: Principle of Bandwidth Enhancement - Rat-Race Coupler
Example .Tight Edge-Coupled Coupled-Line Couplers (CLCs): Generalities on Coupled-Line Couplers -
TEM and Quasi-TEM Symmetric Coupled-Line Structures with Small Interspacing: Impedance Coupling
(IC) - Non- TEM Symmetric Coupled-Line Structures with Relatively Large Spacing: Phase Coupling (PC)
- Summary on Symmetric Coupled-Line Structures - Asymmetric Coupled-Line Structures -Advantages of
MTM Couplers - Symmetric Impedance Coupler - Radiated-Wave Applications and examples - Uniform
and Periodic Leaky-Wave Structures - “Real-Artificial” Materials: the Challenge of Homogenization –
Special Topics of Interest.
36 | P a g e

--- Page 38 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. N. Engheta , R. W. Ziolkowski, Metamaterials: Physics and Engineering Explorations, John Wiley
2. F. Capolino, Theory and Phenomena of Metamaterials, CRC Press
3. C. Caloz, T. Itoh, Electromagnetic Metamaterials: Transmission Line Theory and Microwave
Applications, Wiley IEEE Press
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Learn and understand the principles of Metamaterials
CO2: Understand the theory of Transmission line theory of Metamaterials.
CO3: Learn the applications of and Principles of two dimensional MTMs.
CO4: Learn the principles of Guided Wave Applications of MTMs.
CO5: Learn the principles coupling theory and its applications in MTMs.
37 | P a g e

--- Page 39 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
Advanced Control System L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To study state variable approach for the analysis of control system
 To learn testing techniques for controllability and observability of a given system
 To acquire knowledge to design pole placement and state observer using state feedback
 To understand describing function and phase plane analysis of non-linear system.
 To study the analysis of non-linear system using Lyapunov function.
 To learn the concept of various linearization techniques.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1: State Space Analysis:
Introduction, State variable modelling, decomposition, solutions of state equations, state transition
matrix, Linear Transformations, Controllability & Observability, Pole-placement and Observer design.
Module- 2: Non-Linear System:
Classification of non-linearity, types of non-linearity in physical system, jump resonance, methods
of analysis of non-linear systems, linearization.
Module- 3 : Phase Plane Analysis:
Concept of phase plane, phase trajectory, phase portraits, methods of plotting phase plane
trajectories, Vander Pol’s equation, limit cycle.
stability from phase portrait, time response from trajectories, isoclines method, Pell's method of phase
trajectory, Delta method of phase trajectory construction.
singular points, Classification of singular points.
Module- 4: Describing function analysis:
Fundamentals, computation of Describing function, describing functions of common non-
linearities, Describing function method for stability analysis.
Module- 5: Lyapunov Stability Analysis:
Asymptotic stability, global stability, Concepts of definiteness, Lyapunov Stability theorem,
stability analysis by Lyapunov direct method, Lyapunov function, generation of Lyapunov function.
Module-6: Nonlinear Control Design:
Feedback linearization, Input Output linearization, sliding mode control
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
38 | P a g e

--- Page 40 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
1. Gopal - Modern Control System Theory, New Age International
2. John Doyle, Bruce Francis & Allen Tannenbaum - Feedback Control Theory, Macmillan Publishing
Co.
3. Tan, J - Modern Control Theory, Mc. Grawhill.
4. Ogata K - Modern Control Engg. PHI
5. Kuo B.C - Automatic Control System, PHI
6. Dorf R C & Bishop R.H - Modern Control System, Addison – Wisley.
7. Nagrath I J &Gopal M - Control Systems Engineering, New Age International Pub.
8. Hassan K. Khalil - Nonlinear systems, 3rd edition, Prentice Hall, 2002.
9. Stanislaw H. Zak - Systems and Control.
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Acquire knowledge to develop state models of a system and find solution of state equations for the
system.
CO2: Ability to test a system for controllability and observability.
CO3: Ability to design pole placement and state observer with the help of state feedback.
CO4: Acquire knowledge to analyse non-linear system behaviour by describing function and phase plane
techniques.
CO5: Acquire knowledge to perform stability analysis of non-linear system using Lyapunov function.
CO6: Ability to apply linearization techniques in the analysis of non-linear systems
39 | P a g e

--- Page 41 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
Digital Control System L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To introduce control theory in the analysis and design of computer-controlled system.
 To acquire knowledge on pulse transfer function and their analysis.
 To study stability concepts in discrete domain.
 To introduce state variable approach in discrete domain.
 To acquire knowledge about the design techniques of Digital controller.
 To study PID controller in discrete domain.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module- 1: Introduction to Discrete time control
Features of Discrete time control system, Structure of a computer-controlled system, Signal processing
in discrete time control.
Module- 2 : Modeling of discrete-time systems
Review of Z-transform, Mapping of S-plane to Z transform, Pulse transfer function, Pulse transfer function
of closed loop system
Module- 3: Stability analysis of discrete time systems
Jury stability test, Stability analysis by use of the Bi-linear transformation and Routh stability criterion,
Root locus
Module- 4: Design of Discrete time control system
Transient and steady state response analysis, design based on the frequency response method, Bi-linear
transformation and design procedure in the W-plane.
Module- 5: State Space representation of discrete-time system
Discrete state space model, Pulse transfer function matrix solving discrete time state space equations, state
transition matrix, Discretization of continuous time state space equations, Controllability, observability.
Module- 6: State feedback design
Pole placement by State feedback, State estimator
Module- 7 : Design of Controller in discrete domain
Digital controllers, Digital PID controller, Dead beat control design
40 | P a g e

--- Page 42 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. B. C. Kuo, “Digital Control Systems”, 2nd Edition, Oxford University Press, 2003.
2. K. Ogata, “Discrete-Time Control systems”, 2nd Edition. PHI, 2002.
3. M. Gopal, “Digital Control and State Variable Methods”, 3rd Edition, TMH, Sep-2008.
4. M. Gopal, “Modern Control Systems Theory”, Wiley Eastern, 1984
5. M. Gopal, “Digital control engineering”, New Age International Publications, 2003
6. Kannan M.Moddgalya, Digital Control, Wiley India, 2007.
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Acquire knowledge to understand the concepts of digital control system.
CO2: Ability to analyse the stability of discrete time system.
CO3: Acquire knowledge to analyse digital control system using transform techniques.
CO4: Ability to analyse and design discrete time system using state space method
CO5: Ability to design digital controller.
41 | P a g e

--- Page 43 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
Advanced Microwave Circuits L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To understand the basics of transmission lines & Waveguides.
 To familiarize with principle of various microwave circuits.
 To study Impedance transformers.
 To familiarize with Power Dividers, Couplers and filters.
 To understand the basics of Resonator circuits.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Transmission Lines and Waveguides: Review of TEM, TE, and TM mode solutions of Maxwell’s
equations; TEM mode transmission lines: lossless line, line with small losses, power flow in a terminated
line; Quasi- TEM mode lines: Fields in microstrip lines and strip lines, losses in microstrips, microstrip
discontinuities, coupled lines, slot lines and coplanar waveguides; Surface waveguides: Surface waves
along an impedance plane, dielectric-coated conducting plane, slab waveguide, corrugated plane; Wave
velocities.
Module-2
Microwave Circuit Theory Principles: Equivalent voltages and currents; Z, Y, S, and ABCD
parameters; Equivalent circuit representation of microwave junctions; Scattering parameter analysis of
microwave junctions; Coupling of waveguides through probes, loops, and apertures.
Module-3
Impedance Transformers: Review of single-, double- and triple-stub tuners, waveguide reactive
elements, quarter-wave transformers, design of maximally flat and Chebyshev transformers; Introduction
to tapered transmission lines.
Module-4
Power Dividers and Couplers: Scattering matrix of 3- and 4-port junctions; Design of T-junction
Filters: Analysis of periodic structures, Floquet’s theorem, filter design by insertion loss method,
maximally flat and Chebyshev designs.
Module-5
Resonators: Principles of microwave resonators, loaded, unloaded and external Q, open and
shorted TEM lines as resonators, microstrip resonators, dielectric resonators.
42 | P a g e

--- Page 44 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. S. L. Liao, Microwave Devices and Circuits, Pearson
2. D.M. Pozar, Microwave Engineering, John Wiley
3. R.E. Collin, Foundations for Microwave Engineering, John Wiley
4. S. Das, Microwave Engineering, Oxford University Press
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Explain different types of waveguides and their respective modes of propagation.
CO2: Analyze typical microwave networks using impedance, admittance, transmission and scattering
matrix representations.
CO3: Design microwave matching networks using L section, single and double stub and quarter wave
transformer.
CO4: Explain working of microwave passive circuits such as isolator, circulator, Directional couplers,
attenuators etc.
43 | P a g e

--- Page 45 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
Fundamentals of Antenna and L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
Design
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 The objective of this course is to provide a detailed idea of antenna parameters and numerical
methods to analyze and differentiate the antennas. The student will learn and understand radio wave
propagation concepts and radiation mechanism of various antennas and practical antenna design
for various applications.
 To understand the basics of antenna parameter.
 To familiarize with different types of antennas.
 To study antenna array and beam pattern.
 To familiarize with the theory of radio wave propagation.
 To understand the basics of link budget in communication system.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Antenna parameters; radiation from wires and loops; infinitesimal dipole; finite-length dipole;
linear elements near conductors; small circular loop.
Module-2
Aperture antenna: Huygens’ Principle; radiation from rectangular and circular apertures; design
considerations; Fourier transform method in aperture antenna theory.
Module-3
Horn and reflector antennas: radiation from sectoral and pyramidal horns; design techniques;
parabolic reflector.
Module-4
Printed antenna: basic characteristics; feeding methods; methods of analysis; design of rectangular
and circular patch antennas; bandwidth enhancement techniques.
Module-5
Antenna arrays and beam forming, beam pattern: analysis and synthesis; dielectric resonator
antennas; ultra wideband antennas; active antennas; antenna measurements.
44 | P a g e

--- Page 46 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
Module-6
Radio wave propagation: Antenna located over flat and spherical earth; coverage diagram, it’s
application and interference formulas. Modes of propagation: LOS and radio horizon; non-LOS propagation
– indirect, tropospheric and ionospheric propagation; propagation effects as a function of frequency. Need
for modeling propagation; model selection and application.
Module-7
Communication systems and link budget. Atmospheric effects; fading and multipath
characterization; indoor and outdoor propagation model; microwave and mm wave propagation and rain
drop attenuation.
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. C.A. Balanis, “Antenna Theory: Analysis and Design’, Wiley
2. J.D Kraus, R. J. Marhefka and A. Khan, Antennas and Wave Propagation, MGH
3. R. S. Elliot, “Antenna Theory and Design”, Wiley
4. S. R. Saunders and A. R. Zavala, “Antennas and Propagation for Wireless Communication Systems”,
Wiley
5. W. A. Stutzman and G. A Thiele, “Antenna Theory and Design”’ Wiley
6. R. Garg, P.Bhartia, I. Bhal, A. Ittipiboon, Microstrip Antenna Design Handbook, Artech
House
7. R. E. Collin, “Antenna and Radio Wave Propagation”, McGraw Hill
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Define various antenna parameters.
CO2: Analyze radiation patterns of antennas.
CO3: Analyze radiation patterns of antennas
CO4: Illustrate techniques for antenna parameter measurement.
45 | P a g e

--- Page 47 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
46 | P a g e

--- Page 48 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
Remote Sensing and Navigational L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
Systems
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To familiarize with the principle of Radar system.
 To study the basics of remote sensing.
 To understand the basics of satellite communications and different satellite
communication orbits
 Provide an in-depth understanding of satellite communication system operation,
launching techniques, satellite link design and earth station technology.
 To understand the basics of satellite based navigational systems.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Radar: Introduction; basic radar range equation and modification; CW, FM and pulsed radar; MTI and
pulsed Doppler radars; scanning and tracking radars; receiver; duplexer; display systems; ambiguity
diagram; pulse compression; radar antennas; ECM and ECCM .
Module-2
Remote sensing: Overview, earth’s atmosphere; land surface; oceans; land and sea ice; radiation budget;
climate; radar altimeters; synthetic aperture radars (SAR); wind scatterometers; multispectral imaging; IR
and microwave radiometers; concept of GIS.
Module-3
Satellite System: Kepler’s Laws, Newton’s law, orbital parameters, orbital perturbations, station keeping,
geo stationary and non-Geo-stationary orbits –Limits of visibility – Structure, Primary power, Attitude and
Orbit control, Thermal control and Propulsion, communication Payload and supporting subsystems.
Module-4
Satellite communication: Telemetry, Tracking and command-Transponders-Basic link analysis,
Interference analysis, Ionospheric characteristics, Link Design with and without frequency reuse,
INTELSAT Series, INSAT, VSAT, Mobile satellite services: GSM, GPS, INMARSAT, LEO, MEO,
Satellite Navigational System. GPS Position Location Principles, Differential GPS, Direct Broadcast
satellites (DBS/DTH).
Module-5
Satellite based navigational systems: Electronic navigation systems – global and regional; concepts of
satellite based navigation systems – GPS, GLONASS, Galileo, Beidou, QZSS, NaVIC; code and carrier
phase based measurement techniques; augmentation; relative positioning – DGPS, RTK; Precise Point
Positioning (PPP); Satnav applications.
47 | P a g e

--- Page 49 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. MerillSkolnik; Introduction to Radar Systems, 3rd Edition; Tata McGraw Hill
2. Satellite Communication- T. Pratt & W. Boston
3. Satellite Communication- Roddy
4. Fundamental of Remote Sensing, Noam Levin
5. James B. Campbell & Randolph H. Wynne., Introduction to Remote Sensing, The Guilford Press
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Understand the working principle of various RADAR techniques
CO2: Explain the concepts, methodologies and applications of Remote Sensing.
CO3: Understand satellite system
CO4: Illustrate techniques and concepts of satellite-based navigation systems.
48 | P a g e

--- Page 50 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
Optoelectronic Devices & Circuits L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To familiarize with the principle of optical systems.
 To study basics of semiconductor Optoelectronics.
 To study the basics of Photo detector, Optical Wave Guide and Optical Amplifier.
 To understand the basics of optical passive and active device, Filters etc.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module 1:
Introduction: Generic Optical Systems and Fundamental Building Blocks.
Module 2:
Basics of Semi-conductor Optoelectronics: Elemental and Compound Semiconductors.
Module 3:
Electronic Properties and Optical Processes in Semiconductors, P-N Junction Theory, LEDs and Photo
detectors.
Module 4:
Heterostructures, Confinement of Electron Waves, Optical Waveguides and Guided Modes.
Module 5:
Semiconductor Optical Amplifiers and Fabry-Perot Lasers, Coupled Mode Theory, DBR and DFB Lasers.
Module 6:
Silicon Photonics: Integrated Optical Passive and Active Components. Tunable Filters, Delay-Lines and
Switching Circuits in SOI Platform. CMOS Technology: Electrical vs. Optical Interconnects.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. Pallab Bhattacharya, Semiconductor Opto-Electronic Devices, Prentice Hall of India.
2. Yariv and P. Yeh, Photonics - Optical Electronics in Modern Communications, Oxford University
Press.
M. Jamal Deen and P.K. Basu, Silicon Photonics - Fundamentals and Devices, John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
49 | P a g e

--- Page 51 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
COURSE OUTCOME:
At the end of this course the students should be able to
CO1: Develop a basic understanding on the key concepts in quantum and statistical mechanics relevant to
physical, electrical and optoelectronic properties of materials and their applications to optoelectronic
devices and photonic integrated circuits that emit, modulate, switch, and detect photons.
CO2: Become proficient with the fundamental and applied optoelectronic device physics and its
applications.
CO3: Learn to analyze optoelectronic device characteristics in detail and brainstorm ways towards
improving them or adapting them to new applications.
CO4: Illustrate applications of quantum and statistical mechanics in opto electronic devices and photonic
integrated circuits that emit, modulate, switch, and detect photons.
50 | P a g e

--- Page 52 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
LASER Science & Technology L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To prepare the students understand fundamental physics behind laser light radiation
 To enable students familiar with Solid state, gas and semiconductor lasers
 How to generate ultra short laser pulses
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Laser fundamentals: Spontaneous and stimulated emission, absorption, Einstein’s coefficients, active
medium, population inversion, laser-pumping, laser gain, metastable state, condition for light amplification,
Optical resonator, Solid state laser: Ruby laser, Nd:YAG laser,
Module-2
Liquid lasers: Principle and main components of laser, levels of laser action, continuous wave lasers,
construction and working of dye laser.
Gas Laser: Principle, working and usefulness of gas laser, He-Ne laser, lasing action in Ion lasers.
Module-3
Semiconductor laser: Characteristics of semiconductor lasers, semiconductor diode lasers construction and
operation of ion lasers.
Laser fabrication, Laser in optical communication: Optical source for fiber optical communication, essential
characteristics of laser in fibre optic communication.
Module-4
Fundamentals of Nonlinear Optics: Nonlinear Wave Propagation, Second Harmonic Generation, Phase
Matching, Q-switching, mode locking.
TEXTS/REFERENCES:
1. Laser Fundamentals, 2nd Edition, William T. Silfvast
2. Lasers- Fundamentals & Applications, 2nd Edition, K. Thyagarayan and Ajay Ghatak
3. G.P.Agarwal, Nonlinear Fiber Optics, 4th edition, Academic
51 | P a g e

--- Page 53 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Understand the special characteristics of laser light and optical resonator function
CO2: Understand constructional features of different types of Lasers
CO3: Compare different ultra-short laser pulse generation
CO4: Explore laser fabrication and its various applications
52 | P a g e

--- Page 54 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
Metaheuristic Algorithms& their applications L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 Understanding computational intelligence techniques and methods, particularly
metaheuristic algorithms for optimization problem
 Learning the use of software tools which are specific for computational intelligence.
 Ability to conduct research activity and to prepare reports on a given topic.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction:
Classes of difficult problems (planning, assignment, selection, adaptation, prediction) and
corresponding search spaces, classes of metaheuristics, overall structure of a metaheuristic
algorithm.
Module-2
Overview of Heuristic and Meta-Heuristic Search:
Deterministic local search (Pattern Search, Nelder Mead), Random local search (Matyas and Solis-Wets
algorithms), Global search (restarted local search, iterated local search, simulated annealing, tabu search,
variable neighborhood search etc).
Module-3
Population-based metaheuristics:
Overall structure, Main components (exploration and exploitation operators), Operators for evolutionary
algorithms: mutation, crossover, selection, Encoding types, Genetic algorithms, evolution strategies,
evolutionary programming, genetic programming.
Swarm Intelligence: Ant colony optimization, Particle swarm optimization, Artificial bee colony.
Difference-based and Probabilistic Algorithms: Differential Evolution, Population Based Incremental
Learning, Estimation of Distribution Algorithms, Bayesian Optimization Algorithms.
Module-4
Scalability of Metaheuristic Algorithms: Cooperative coevolution, Parallel models for population-based
metaheuristics
Multi-objective/ multi-modal/ dynamic optimization:
Particularities of multi-objective optimization (non-domination, Pareto front etc), Apriori and aposteriori
techniques, Quality metrics, Multi-modal optimization and specific approaches (niching, sharing etc),
Techniques for dynamic optimization (hyper-mutation, random immigrants, ageing mechanisms).
Applications of metaheuristic algorithms in engineering.
53 | P a g e

--- Page 55 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. Mohammad Solgi, Hugo A. Loáiciga, OmidBozorg-Haddad, Meta-heuristic and Evolutionary
Algorithms for Engineering Optimization, Wiley
2. Ke-Lin Du, M. N. S. Swamy, Search and Optimization by Metaheuristics: Techniques and Algorithms
Inspired by Nature, Birkhauser
3. Xin-She Yang, Nature-Inspired Optimization Algorithms, Elsevier
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Present basic principles of metaheuristic techniques.
CO2: Identify& apply the appropriate technique to a given problem.
CO3: Implement and validate a computational model based on metaheuristic algorithms
CO4: Present examples of metaheuristics for global, multi-modal, multi-criteria and dynamic
optimization.
CO5: Solve a real-world problem using computational intelligence tools.
54 | P a g e

--- Page 56 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
Electromagnetic Interference & Compatibility L-3 T-1 P-0 4 credits
COURSE OBJECTIVE:
 To familiarize with the fundamentals that are essential for electronics industry in the field of EMI /
EMC
 To understand EMI sources and its measurements
 To understand the various techniques for electromagnetic compatibility.
 Acquire broad knowledge of various EM radiation measurement techniques.
 Model a given electromagnetic environment/system so as to comply with the standards.
COURSE CONTENT:
Module-1
Introduction, Natural and Nuclear Sources of EMI / EMC: Electromagnetic environment, History,
Concepts, Practical experiences and concerns, frequency spectrum conservations, An overview of EMI /
EMC, Natural and Nuclear sources of EMI.
Module-2
EMI from Apparatus, Circuits and Open Area Test Sites: Electromagnetic emissions, Noise from relays
and switches, Non-linearity in circuits, passive inter modulation, Cross talk in transmission lines, Transients
in power supply lines, Electromagnetic interference (EMI), Open area test sites and measurements.
Module-3
Radiated and Conducted Interference Measurements and ESD: Anechoic chamber, TEM cell, GH TEM
Cell, Characterization of conduction currents / voltages, Conducted EM noise on power lines, Conducted
EMI from equipment, Immunity to conducted EMI detectors and measurements, ESD, Electrical fast
transients / bursts, Electrical surges.
Module-4
Grounding, Shielding, Bonding, and EMI filters: Principles and types of grounding, Shielding, and bonding,
Characterization of filters, Power lines filter designs.
Module-5
Cables, Connectors, Components and EMC Standards: EMI suppression cables, EMC connectors, EMC
gaskets, Isolation transformers, optoisolators, National / International EMC standards.
55 | P a g e

--- Page 57 ---
Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering 2021
TEXTS/ REFERENCES:
1. Dr. V.P. Kodali, IEEE Publication, Engineering Electromagnetic Compatibility,S. Chand &
Co. Ltd.
2. Clayton R. Paul, Introduction to Electromagnetic Compatibility, Wiley
3. Henry W. Ott , Electromagnetic Compatibility Engineering, Wiley
COURSE OUTCOME:
CO1: Designing electronic systems that function without errors or problems related to electromagnetic
compatibility.
CO2: Diagnose and solve basic electromagnetic compatibility problems.
CO3: Real-world EMC design constraints and make appropriate tradeoffs to achieve the most cost-effective
design that meets all requirements.
CO4: Understand the effect of EM noise in system environment and its sources.
CO5: Identifying of EMI hotspot and various techniques like Grounding, Filtering, Soldering, etc
56 | P a g e