
--- Page 1 ---
Natiional Institute of Technology Agartala
Department of Mathematics
BTTMT in Computational Mathematics
ProposeedCourseStructureofDualDegreecourse
On
BTTMT in Computational Mathematics
Seemester – 1st 22 – Credits
Engineering Mathemattics-I 100 2 1 0 3
Engineering Physics – II 100 3 0 0 3
Engineering Chemistryy – I 100 3 0 0 3
Basic Electrical Engineeering (Gr.I) / Basic Electronics (Gr.II) 100 3 0 0 3
Engineering Mechanicss-I (Gr.I) / Disaster Management (Gr.II) 100 3/2 1/0 0/0 4/2
Communication in English (Gr.I) / Introduction to
100 3 0 0 3
Programming (Theory)) (Gr.II)
Chemistry Laboratory (Gr.I) / Engineering Physics Lab (Gr.II) 50 0 0 2 1
Workshop Practice (Grr.I) / Engineering Graphics (Gr.II) 50 0/1 0/0 2/2 1/2
Basic Electrical Labboratory (Gr.I) / Basic Electronics
50 0 0 2 1
Laboratory (Gr.II)
Computer Programminng Laboratory (Gr. II) 50 0 0 2 0/1
NSS / NCC - 0 0 3 0
Seemmester – 2nd 21 – Credits
Engineering Mathemattics – II 100 2 1 0 3
Engineering Physics – III 100 3 0 0 3
Engineering Chemistryy – II 50 2 0 0 2
Basic Electronics(Gr.I)) / Basic Electrical Engineering (Gr.II) 100 3 0 0 3
Disaster Management ((Gr.I) / Engineering Mechanics-I (Gr.II) 50 2/3 0/1 0/0 2/4
Introduction to PProgramming (Theory) (Gr.I) /
100 3 0 0 3
Communication in Engglish (Gr.II)
Engineering Physics Laab (Gr.I) / Chemistry Lab (Gr.II) 50 0 0 2 1
Engineering Graphics(GGr.I) / Workshop Practice (Gr.II) 50 1/0 0/0 2/2 2/1
Computer Programminng Laboratory (Gr. I) 50 0 0 2 1
Basic Electronics Laaboratory (Gr.I) / Basic Electrical
50 0 0 2 1/0
Laboratory (Gr.II)
NSS / NCC - 0 0 3 0
Page No. 1 of 4

--- Page 2 ---
Natiional Institute of Technology Agartala
Department of Mathematics
BTTMT in Computational Mathematics
Seemester – 3rd 22– Credits
Probability and Statistiics 100 3 1 0 4
Mathematical Analysis 100 3 1 0 4
Differential Equation 100 3 1 0 4
Discrete Mathematics aand Fuzzy set theory 100 3 1 0 4
Data Structure and Alggorithm (Theory) 100 3 1 0 4
Data Structure and Alggorithm (Practical) 50 0 0 2 2
Seemester – 4th 23 – Credits
Algebra 100 3 1 0 4
Numerical Analysis 100 3 1 0 4
LPP and Game Theoryy 100 3 1 0 4
Computer Organizationn 100 3 1 0 4
Object Oriented Prograamming (C++ and Python) (Theory) 100 3 1 0 4
Object Oriented Prograamming (C++ and Python) (Practical) 50 0 0 2 3
Seemester – 5th 19 – Credits
Soft Computing 100 3 1 0 4
Integral Transform 100 3 1 0 4
Financial Mathematics 100 3 1 0 4
Statistical Inference 100 3 1 0 4
Scientific Computing (PPractical) 100 0 0 3 3
(Student Activity – 1)
Industrial Training-1 // Internship-1 (during summer vacation minimum 15days)
Seemester – 6th 22 – Credits
Graph Theory 100 3 1 0 4
Number Theory and Crryptography 100 3 1 0 4
Design and Analysis of Algorithms 100 3 1 0 4
Machine Learning andData Mining 100 3 1 0 4
Data Base Managemenntt System (Theory) 100 3 1 0 4
Data Base Managemenntt System (Practical) 50 0 0 2 2
Seemester – 7th 16– Credits
Randomized Algorithmm 100 3 1 0 4
Image Processing 100 3 1 0 4
Page No. 2 of 4

--- Page 3 ---
Natiional Institute of Technology Agartala
Department of Mathematics
BTTMT in Computational Mathematics
OptimizationTechniquues 100 3 1 0 4
Stochastic Processes 100 3 1 0 4
(Student Activity – 2)
Industrial Training-2 // Internship-2 (during summer vacation minimum 15days)
Seemester – 8th 25 – Credits
Formal Language and AAutomata Theory 100 3 1 0 4
Artificial Intelligence 100 3 1 0 4
Deep Learning 100 3 1 0 4
Elective – I 100 3 1 0 4
Engineering Economics and Accountancy
Computer Networks and Security (Theory)
Non stationary data analysis
Operations Research-I
Mathematical Modeling and Simulation-I
Compiler Design
Dissertation – I 100 0 3 0 3
Grand Viva-I 100 0 0 3 3
Seminar Presentation-II 100 0 0 3 3
Seemester – 9th 18 – Credits
Complexity Theory andd Approximation Algorithm 100 3 1 0 4
Social Media Data Anaalysis (Theory) 100 3 1 0 4
Big Data Analytics (Praactical) 50 0 0 2 2
Elective – II 100 3 1 0 4
Data Communication
Human Computer Interaction
Operations Research-II
Mathematical Modeling and Simulation-II
Elective –III 100 3 1 0 4
Operating system
Deecision Theory and Computational Statistics
Stochastic Calculus
Mobile Computing
Page No. 3 of 4

--- Page 4 ---
Natiional Institute of Technology Agartala
Department of Mathematics
BTTMT in Computational Mathematics
Semmester – 10th 17– Credits
Option – 1
Dissertation – II 200 0 10 0 10
Grand Viva-II 100 0 0 4 4
Seminar Presentation-III 100 0 0 3 3
Option – 2
Industrial Project 200 0 0 10 10
ProjectSeminar 100 0 0 3 3
Grand Viva-II 100 0 0 4 4
1st Semester = 222 – Credits
2nd Semester = 221 – Credits
3rd Semester = 222 – Credits
4th Semester = 223 – Credits
5th Semester = 119 – Credits
6th Semester = 222 – Credits
7th Semester = 116 – Credits
8th Semester = 225 – Credits
9th Semester = 118 – Credits
10th Semester = 117 – Credits
Total = 2205 – Credits
BT -170 Credits
MT - 35 Credits
Page No. 4 of 4

--- Page 5 ---
NATIONAL INNSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGGY
AGARTALA
DEPARTMMENT OF MATHEMATICS
SYLLABUS
FOR
BTMT
IN
COMPUTAATIONAL MATHEMATICS

--- Page 6 ---
BTMT
COMPUTATIIONAL MATHEMAATICS
sst
1 SEMESTER
2

--- Page 7 ---
Engineering Mathematics - I
1. Infinite series: Convergence of SSequence, Bounded Sequence, Monotonic Sequence, Convergent,
Divergent and Oscillatory Series, GGeometric Series, Positive term series, p-series, Commparison Test,
D'Alembert's Ratio tests, Raabe's Test, Gauss's Test, Cauchy's Integral Test, Cauchhy's Root test,
Logarithmic Test.
2. Calculus of function of one varriable: Limit and continuity of functions, Uniform continuity and
differentiability, successive differenntiation, Leibnitz's theorem, Rolle's theorem,Mean VValue theorems
and Taylor's theorem, expansion oof functions into Taylor's and Maclaurin's series, Indeterminate
forms, Curvature, Asymptotes, Conncavity, Convexity and point of inflexion.
3. Function of Several Variables: LLimit, Continuity, Partial Derivatives, Chain Rule, Differentiation
of Implicit functions, Exact Differeentials, Euler's theorem on homogeneous function annd its converse,
Tangent planes and Normal planes,, Maxima, Minima and Saddle points, Simple probleems in extrema
of functions with constraints, Methood of Lagrangian Multipliers.
4. Ordinary Differential Equation:: First order ordinary differential equation, Linear equations and
Bernoulli's equation, Ordinary lineaar differential equation of nth order, Solution of hommogeneous and
non-homogeneous equations, Operaator method, method of undetermined coefficients aand variation of
parameters, Solution of simple ssimultaneous ordinary differential equation. Seriees solution of
differential equation.
5. Laplace Transform: Transforms of elementary functions, Inverse transforms, properrties of laplace
transform, Convolutions, Transformms of periodic functions, unit step functions, shiffting theorems,
Solution of ODE's using transformss.
Text/Reference Books:-
a) M. D. Raisinghania. Ordiinnary and Partial Differential Equation, S. Chandd, 19th Edition,
2017.
b) S. C. Malik and S. Aroraa, Mathematical Analysis, New Age International Publisher, 5th
Edition, 2017.
c) H. K. Das, Advanced Enginneering Mathematics, S. Chand, 1st Edition, 1988.
d) B. V. Ramana, Higher EEnngineering Mathematics, Tata McGraw Hill Eduucation (India)
Private Limitd, 20th Editionn, 2013.
e) E. Kreyszig, Advanced Enginneering Mathematics, Wiley, 10th Edition, 2015.
Engineering Physics - I
1. Mathematical Preliminary: Vector Differentiation, Scalar and Vector Fieldds, Directional
Derivatives, Vector Differential OOperator, Gradient, Divergence, Curl, Line, Surfacee and Volume
integrals and their applications, Greeen’s theorem.
2. Electromagnetics: Gauss’s Theeorem of Electrostatics, Ampere’s law, Magneto statiics and laws of
Electromagnetic Induction, Self andd Mutual induction, Concept of Displacement Curreent, Difference
3

--- Page 8 ---
between Conduction Current andd Displacement Current, Eddy Current, Maxwelll’s Equations,
Propagation of Electromagnetic Waves in Free Space, Solution of propagattion of Plane
Electromagnetic Wave in free spacce and medium, Eddy Current, Concept of Field Eneergy (Poynting
Vector)
3. Oscillations and Waves: Planne progressive wave, Energy of waves, Reverberaation, Sabine’s
law(derivation), Damped Vibrationn:-differential equation and solution, critical dampinng, logarithmic
decrement, analogy with electricaal circuit, Forced damped Vibration, Amplitude and Velocity
Resonance, sharpness of resonance and quality factor, applications of oscillatory motionns.
4. Interference: Coherence (tempooral and spatial), Fresnel’s Bi-prism, Conditions foor interference,
Techniques of obtaining interferencce: Interference of Light due to division of wave fronnt, Interference
of Light due to division of amplitudde; Newton’s Ring, colour of thin film.
5. Diffraction: Types of Diffractioon; Fresnel and Fraunhofer, Difference between Innterference and
Diffraction, Zone plate; positive aannd Negative Zone plates, action of zone plate as a convex lens,
Fraunhofer Diffraction at a Single SSlit and Double slit, Plane transmission diffraction ggrating spectra,
Comparison between Prism and Grraating Spectra, Resolving Power and limit of resolutiion, Rayleigh’s
criterion, Resolving Power of Microoscope, Telescope and prism.
6. Polarization: Polarization, typess of polarized light, polarizer and analyzer, Effect oof polarizer on
natural light, Effect of analyser on plane polarized light-Malus Law, Nicol’s Prrism; Polaroid,
Anisotropic crystal; Birefringencee, calcite crystal; Huygens’ explanation of doubble refraction;
Huygens’ construction of wave frronts; experimental determination of principal refrractive indices;
phase difference between o – ray and e – ray; superposition of waves linearly pollarized at right
angles; Conditions for obtaining llinearly polarized light, circularly polarized light aand elliptically
polarized light, retarders or wave pllates; Babinet Compensator.
Reference Books
1. D. J. Griffith, Introductioon to Electrodynamics, PHI Pubs.
2. G. B. Arfken and H. J. Weber, Mathematical Methods for Physicists, Elseevier Academic
Press. 3. H. J. Pain, The Phhysics of Vibrations and Waves, John Wiley and Sonss Ltd.
4. A. Ghatak, Optics, Tata MMc Graw Hill.
5. Optics, E. Hecht, Pearsoonn.
6. F. A. Jenkins and H. E. WWhite, Fundamentals of Optics, Tata Mc Graw Hill.
Engineering Chemistry - I
a) Chemical Bonding: - Ionic annd Covalent bonds; Valence Bond Theory (V.B.T) of covalency-
atomic orbital and their overlap, hyybridization of orbitals definition types and associatted geometries,
VSEPR theory, shapes of simple mmoolecules like-H2O, CO2, NH3, CH4,C2H6, C2H2 BBF3, PCl5, SF6
in the light of the hybridization sstate of the central atom and VSEPR effects; Molecular Orbital
Theory (M.O.T)- concept of mmoolecular orbital, molecular orbital energy levell diagrams of
homonuclear diatomic molecules-HHe2,O2, N2 and molecular ions, determination of boond order, bond
length and magnetic properties froom M.O diagrams; Noncovalent interactions- van dder Waals and
hydrogen bonding and their effect over physical properties of different substances, mmetallic bonds-
Electron sea model.
4

--- Page 9 ---
b) Fuels: - Definition and classificcaation of fuels; Characteristics of a good fuel, compaarison between
solid, liquid and gaseous fuel; Callorific value of fuels- definition, units, higher and lower calorific
value, determination of the calorificc value of a solid fuel by bomb calorimeter; Solid fueel- coal, origin,
types, proximate and ultimate anaalysis of coal; Liquid fuel- petroleum, origin, refining of crude,
cracking, synthetic petrol, Fischeer-Tropsch and Bergius method for the synthesis of gasoline,
knocking
c) Water: Introduction; Hardness oof Water- cause, types, units, disadvantages of using hard water for
domestic and industrial purposes (( e.g., scale and sludge formation in boilers, causticcembitterment,
boiler corrosion etc.), softening off hard water ( lime-soda, permutit and ion exchannge processes);
Chemical analysis of Waterestimmaation of free chlorine, total alkalinity, hardness and dissolved
oxygen, numerical based on determmination of hardness.
d) Pollution and its control:-- Pollution- introduction, air pollutants, particculates, smog,
photochemical smog, acid rain, grreen house effects, depletion of ozone layer, analyysis of gaseous
effluents-oxides of nitrogen, oxidess of sulphur and H2S, control of air pollution- particuulate emission,
gaseous pollutants, water pollution-- arsenic pollution and its remedies. Chemical analyysis of effluent
liquid streams, BOD, COD.
e) Electrochemistry: - Arrhenius theory of electrolytic dissociation, classification oof electrolytes;
degree of dissociation of acids, disssociation constant of weak acids, Debye-Huckel theoory, concept of
pH and pOH, buffer solutionss, solubility product, common ion effect, coonductance of
solutionsspecific, molar and equivaalent conductance, variation of molarconductance wwith dilution for
strong and weak electrolytes; Migrration of ions- Kohlrausch's law of independent miggration of ions,
Ostwald's dilution law; transport nuumber, Nernst equation for single electrode, electrochhemical cells.
f) Polymer Chemistry: - Introduccttion, types of polymerization, classification of polyymers based on
chain characteristics, source, methhod of synthesis and molecular forces involved, mechanism of
polymerization reaction: cationic, aannionic and catalytic polymerization; glass transition and crystalline
melting point temperatures, Facttoors influencing glass transition and crystalline melting point
temperatures. Preparation, propertiees and uses of the Polyethylene, PVC, Polystyrene,, PAN, Teflon,
Nylon- 6:6, polyester ; Rubber- moonomer, structure, compounding of rubber, vulcanizaation, synthetic
rubbers- Buna-S, Buna-N, neoprenee, butyl rubber and polyurethanes
Reference books:
1. Jain and Jain, EngineerinngChemistry; 15th Edition,
2. Engineering Chemistry; WWiley - India.
3. S. S Dara, S chand Publissher, A Text Book of Engineering Practical Chemisttry .
4. Sashi Chawla, A text boook of Engineering Chemistry;
5. S. S Dara, S chand Publissher, A Text Book of Engineering Chemistry;
6. A. K Dey, Environmentaal Chemistry, John Wiley.
Basic Electrical Engineering
Basic circuit analysis methods:
Kirchhoff‟s laws, mesh and nodal aanalysis. Network Theorems: Superposition theorem,, Thevenin-
Norton theorem, maximum powertrransfer theorem, star-delta transformation.
5

--- Page 10 ---
AC circuit analysis:
ACfundamentals, phasor diagrams,, Power in ac circuits, Series AC circuit and parallel AC circuit,
Resonance, Network analysis methoods, Poly-phase circuit.
Basics of Electrical Machines:
Basic principle of generator and mootor, emf induced in a coil, concept of rotating magneetic field,
introduction to transformer.
Reference Books:
1. Vincent Del Toro, „Electrical Ennggineering Fundamentals‟, Phi Learning, 2nd Editionn, 2014.
2. D. P. Kothari and I. J. Nagrath, „„BBasic Electrical Engineering‟, McGraw Higher Ed., 3rd Edition,
2009.
3. K.V.V. Murthy and M.S.Kamathh, „Basic Circuit Analysis‟, 1st Edition (reprinted witth corrections)
Jaico publishing, 1998.
4. W.H. Hayt and J.E. Kemmerley, „Engineering Circuit Analysis‟, Int. St. Ed.(4th) MccGraw Hill,
1986.
5. S.K.Bhattacharya, 'Electrical Maachines', Tata McGraw Hill Publishing company Ltdd., second
Edition, 2007
6. I. J. Nagrath and D. P. Kothari, 'EElectric Machines', Tata McGraw Hill, 1985
Engineering Mechanics -I
Force Systems and Equilibrium
Force moment and couple, princiiple of transmissibility, Varignon's theorem. Resuultant of force
system- concurrent and nonconcurrrent coplanar forces, free body diagram, equilibriumm equations and
their uses in solving elementary enggineering problems.
Plane trusses
Analysis of plane trusses and planne frames (Analytical and graphical methods). Meethod of joints,
methods of sections, graphical methhod.
Friction
Coulumb's laws of fraction, belt fraacction problems involving fraction related to practicall application.
Moment of Inertia and plane figuure:-
6

--- Page 11 ---
Moment of Inertia of a plane figuree with respect to an axis in its plane, Moment of Inerttia with respect
to an axis perpendicular to the planne of the figure. Parallel axis theorem, perpendicularr axis theorem.
Polar moment of inertia
Moment of inertia of material boddies:
Mass moment of inertia in case of ddisc cone cylinder sphere slender rod
Centre of gravity of rigid body
Centre of gravity of right circular coone, cylinder,hemisphere and composite rigid body.
Virtual work :
Work of a force principle of vviirtual work and itsapplication, Constriction of fforce polygon,
Raydiagram, Funicular polygon, Maxwelldiagrams. Mass moment of inertia in case of disc,
cone,cylinder, sphere slender rod.
Text/Reference Books:
1. Timoshenko and Young, Engineeering Mechanics.
2. R.S. Khurmi , A text Book of Ennggineering Mechanics.
3. R.K. Bansal , A text Book of Enggineering Mechanics.
Communication in English
Pronunciation, Vocabulary Extennsion, basic aspects of language skills, modees of writing,
comprehension, composition, wordd-order, structure of words etc. The fundamentalss of Grammar,
textual pieces for literary appreciattion, non-traditional materials, newspaper articles, aadvertisements,
notice writing,Soft Skills Developmment etc.
The following textual pieces from ""English for All" by Nilanjana Gupta, published by MMac Millan:
Text/Reference Books: -
1. Shakespeare's Sister by Virginia WWoolf
2. Scientific Research for Amateurrss by J.B.S. Haldane
3. When I Have Seen by William Shhakespeare
4. Lines Written in Early Spring byy William Wordsworth
5. On His Blindness by John Miltonn
6. Prospice by Robert Browning
7. After Twenty Years by O' Henry
8. The Adventures of the Blue Carbbuncle by Arthur Conan Doyle
7

--- Page 12 ---
Chemistry Laboratory
List of experiments:
1. Determinations of hardness of water.
2. Determinations of percentage purity of lime stone sample.
3. Determinations of dissolved oxygen in water.
4, Determinations of sodium carbonate and sodium bicarbonate in a mixture.
5. Determinations of iron content in a sample.
6. Determinations of chloride content of water.
7. Determinations of proximate analysis of coal.
8. Determinations of flash point of anoil by penskymartein's closed cup flash point Apparatus.
9. Determinations of viscosity of oil by redwood viscometer.
10. Determination of Dissociation constant of weak acids by conductometric Titration.
11. Determinations of carbon residue of oil by Conrad son's apparatus.

12. Determination of pH of an electrolyte by potentiometer Titration.

Workshop Practice
1. Fitting Shop
i) Introduction of hand Tools.
ii) Job No. 01:- Making of Square bar from round bar of mild steel by metal wearing process.
iit) Job No.02:- Making of V-Groove on Mild Steel Flat by metal cutting process.
2. Carpentry Shop
i) Introduction of Hand Tools.
ii) Job No.01:- Making of wooden End half lap joint.
iit) Job No.02:- Making of wooden T-Joint.
3. Smithy Shop
i) Introduction of Hand Tools
ii) Job No.01:- To make square bar from round bar of Mild Steel by heatingand hammering.

iit) Job No.02:- To make Hexagonal bar from round bar of Mild Steel by heating and hammering


--- Page 13 ---
Basic Electrical Laboratory
List of Experiments:
1) Study of different Electrical souurrces.
2) Verification of Thevenin‟s theorreem.
3) Verification of Norton‟s theoremm.
4) Verification of Maximum powerr transfer theorem.
5) Verification of Superposition theeorem.
6) Extension of meter range.
7) Study of characteristics of Fluoreescent lamp and Incandescent lamp.
8) Characteristics of R-L circuit, R--C circuit, R-L-C series circuit with AC source.
9) Determination of insulation resisstance by using Megger.
10) Study of different transformer cconnections.
11) Transformer testing
12) Starting of induction motor
9

--- Page 14 ---
BTMT
COMPUTATIIONAL MATHEMAATICS
nnd
2 SEMESTER
10

--- Page 15 ---
EEngineering Mathematics - II
1. Matrices: Algebra of matricees, Vector spaces, linear dependence of vectors, basis, Linear
Transformations, Rank and inverrse of a matrix, Solution of algebraic equationns, consistency
conditions, Hermitian, skew- Hermmitian and Unitary matrices, by-linear form, eigen vvalue and eigen
vectors. Cayley-Hamilton theorem.
2. Complex numbers: Exponentiaal complex numbers and logarithm of a complex nuumber, circular,
hyperbolic and inverse circular funcctions of complex numbers.
3. Function of a Complex Varriable: Limit, continuity and differentiation, Anaalytic function,
Cauchy- Riemann equations, Conjuugate functions, Application to two dimensional probblems, Taylor's
and Laurent's expansions, Branch points, zeros, poles, residues, Cauchy's Integral thheorem, simple
problems on Contour Integration.
4. Integral Calculus: Improper Inntegrals, Beta and Gamma function. Double and Triple Integrals,
Jacobians and transformation of co--ordinates.
5. Vectors: Scalar and vector tripple product, space curves, Seret - Frenet formulaa, velocity and
acceleration simple problems, momment of force, work done, angular velocity, relative velocitysimple
applications. Vector function of one variable, vector differentiation and integraation, gradient,
divergence and curl ---Applicationns. Stoke's theorem, Green's theorem, Gauss divergeence theorem -
simple applications to areas, Volummes and center of Pressure.
Text/Reference Books:
1. Malik and Arora, Mathematical AAnalysis:
2. H.K.Dass., Advanced Engineerinng Mathematics
3. B.V.Ramana. Higher Engg. Mathhematics
4. E. Kreyszig , Advanced Engineerring Mathematics.
5. G.B.Thomas and R.L.Finney, Caallculus and Analytic Geometry:
6. M.L.Khanna , Vector Calculas
11

--- Page 16 ---
Engineering Physics - II
1. Introduction to Quantum Meechanics: Blackbody Radiation, Planck’s Radiation Formula, de
Broglie’s hypothesis, Davisson Germer Experiment, Stern-Gerlach Experiment, Heisenberg’s
uncertainty principle and its applicaation, Wave packets, Phase velocity and group veloccity, probability
current density, Operators, Hermitiaan operators, expectation 1values, Interpretation of wave function,
Postulates of quantum mechanics, Orthogonal and orthonormal functions, Schrödingger equation in
one dimensional problems, Particlle in a box, Eigen values and Eigen function, staationary states,
Tunneling problems, Bound States.
2. Relativity: Reference Frames, Michelson - Morley Experiment and its consequeences, Lorentz
Transformation, Postulates of Rellativity, Relativistic Mass and Mass-Energy Equiivalence, Time
Dilation, Length Contraction, Relattiivistic Kinematics, Principle of Simultaneity, Twin PParadox.
3. Concepts of Solids: Statisticaal distributions, M-B, B-E and F-D statistics andd their simple
applications, Planck’s radiation laww, Degenerate Fermi Gas. Crystallographic planes, reeciprocal lattice
and miller indices, Inter-planer spaacing (cubic system only), Bragg’s diffraction, Lauee’s equation of
X-ray diffraction, Crystal structuree analysis, Lattice Vibration, Electrons in a crystalline solid, free
electron theory, electronic conductioon in solids, Band theory of solids, Kronig - Penny mmodel.
4. Introduction to Laser and Opttical Fibre: Spontaneous and stimulated emission, Einstein’s A-B
coefficients, Meta - Stable states, ppopulation inversion, basic principle of laser (three aand four level),
opticalcavityandresonator,RubyaandHe-Nelaser,holography.Propagationoflightinnfibre,stepand
graded index fibre, numerical aperrture, attenuation in optical fibre, introduction of opptical window,
application of laser and optical fibree.
Reference Books:
1. A. K. Ghatak and S. Lokanathan,, Quantum Mechanics, Macmillan India Ltd.
2. R. Eisberg and Resnick, Quanttum Physics of Atoms, Molecules, Solids, Nuclei and Particles,
Wiley India Pvt. Ltd.
3. Robert Resnick, Introduction to SSpecial Relativity, John Wiley and Sons.
4. F. Reif, Statistical Mechanics, MMcc Graw Hill.
5. B.K. Agarwal, Elements of Statisstical Mechanics
6. Kittel, Introduction solid State Phhysics, Willy Eastern Limited
7. K. Thyagrajan, A. Ghatak, Laserss, Fundamentals and Applications, Springer Pub.
8. D. J. Griffiths, Introduction to QQuantum Mechanics, Pearson
9. M. Ali Omar, Elementary Solid SState Physics: Principles and Applications, Pearson PPub.
Engineering Chemistry –II
(a) Cement: - Introduction, classiffication; Portland Cement definition, raw materialss, manufacture,
ideal composition and physical reequirement according to I.S code, chemical constitution of the
12

--- Page 17 ---
finished product, setting and harddeening, heat of hydration; Special Cements- high-aalumina, white
portland,water-proofcementsetc.
(b) Refractories: - Definition, objeective of using, classification based on chemical natuure; Properties-
refractoriness, strength, dimensioonnal stability, chemical inertness, thermal expannsion, thermal
conductivity, porosity, spalling, eleecctrical conductivity etc. and interrelations between tthem; selection
of good refractory; Common Refracctory Bricks- silica, fireclay, high alumina, magnesite and zirconia
bricks, properties and uses.
(c) Corrosion: - Introduction, definnition, classification; Dry Corrosion factors effectingg dry corrosion,
mechanism, types, oxidation corroosion, Pilling-Bedworth rule, corrosion by other gaases, hydrogen
related corrosion, liquid metal corrroosion; Wet Corrosion- types, chemical corrosion, faactors affecting
chemical corrosion, mechanism off wet corrosion- electrochemical mechanism, evoluttion of H2 and
absorption of O2 types; Differentiaal aeration theory, passivity, pitting, waterline and sttress corrosion;
Corrosion Control purification, allooyying, application of protective coatings, cathodic prootection etc.
(d) Lubricants: - Introduction; MMechanism- thick-film, thin-film and extreme pressuure lubrication;
Classification of Lubricantslubricaating oils, greases and solid lubricants, their propeerties, use and
additives required (e.g., anti-oxidaants, corrosion preventers etc.); Properties of Lubbricating Oils-
viscosity, flash and fire-point, clooud and pour point, oiliness, carbon residue, anilline point etc.;
Cutting fluids.
(e) Thermochemistry: - Differentt types of energy and other definitions; Endothermiic/ Exothermic
Reactions and Energy Diagrams; thermochemistry stoichiometry, enthalpy, standarrd enthalpy of
formation and reaction, Hess's Law,, heat of solution, heat of neutralization.
Text/Reference Books:
1. Jain and Jain, Engineering Chemmiistry; 15th Edition.
2. Engineering Chemistry;Wiley - IIndia.
3. S.S Dara, S chand Publisher, A TText Book of Engineering Practical Chemistry.
4. Sashi Chawla, A text book of Ennggineering Chemistry
5. S.S Dara, S Chand Publisher, A TText Book of Engineering Chemistry.
6. A.K Dey, Environmental Chemisstry, John Wiley.
7. Ashim K Das, Environmental cheemistry with Green chemistry, Books and Allied Pvtt. Ltd.
8. Vanloon Duffy, Environmental CChemistry, 2/E, Oxford University Press.
9. O. G. Palanna, Engineering Chemmistry, Tata Mc-Graw Hill Education Private Ltd. Neew Delhi.
13

--- Page 18 ---
Basic Electronics
Elementary Physics of Semiconduuctor Material
PN Junction Diode- Operation Characteristics and Modelling, Zener Diode- OOperation and
Application; Diode Rectifiers, Filteers, Clipper, Clamper. BJT Operation and Characterristic, NPN and
PNP transistor, BJT biasing, Difffeerent circuit configurations with Circuit Models. IIntroduction to
JFET Operation, Main Carriers in BBJT and FET and Characteristics.
Operational Amplifiers
Inverting and Non inverting Conffiguration and its Common Applications IC-555 TTimer Circuit-
Astable, Monostable and Bistable OOperations. Cathode Ray Oscilloscope. Elementaryy Construction,
Connections for Viewing Signals,, Measuring Voltage, Frequency and Time Periood. Elementary
Physics of Opto-electronic Devicess like LED, LCD Devices, Photo-Diode, PhotoTranssistor, LDR, 7-
segment Display, Opto isolators.
Text/Reference Books: -
1. Vladimir V.Mitin, Viatcheslav AA. Kochelap, Michael A. Stroscio, Introduction to Naanoelectronics -
Science, Nanotechnology,Engineeriing and Application, Cambridge University Press.
2. D. De and K. P. Ghatak , Basic EElectronics, Pearson Education.
3. R.F. Pierret, Semiconductor Deviice Fundamentals, Pearson Education.
4. Robert F Pierret and Gerold WW.Neudeck , Modular Services on Solid State Deevice, Addison
Wesley Publishing Company
5. K. Sedra and Smith, Microelectrronic Circuits , Oxford
6. D. Carlo and Lin , Linear Circuitt Analysis, Oxford University Press
Disaster Management
Elements of Engineering Seismoloogy:- Earthquake occurrence in the world, causes oof Earthquake,
Plate tectonics, Earthquake mechhanism, seismic zoning map of India and its usse. Earthquake
phenomenon:- Focus, Epicenter, seeismic waves, magnitude, intensity scale its corelatiion assessment
and Do's and Don's for protectionn of life and property during disaster. Landslides:- Geo-technical
aspects of landslides and control off Landslide Hazard. Flood:- Flood control as a measure of Disaster
Management and Mitigation Cycloone and Fire:- Cyclone Disaster Mitigation and ensuuring wind and
fire hazard safety during disaster.
Text/Reference Books:
1. A.K.Mukhopadhay, Crisis andd Disaster Management Turbulence and Aftermaath, New Age
International Publishers.
2. H.N.Srivastava, S.N. Bhattacharyya. G.D.Gupta, Earthquake Geography and Managemment, New Age
International Publishers.
14

--- Page 19 ---
3. Thomas D. Schneid, Larry Colllins, Disaster Management and Preparedness, Lewwis Publishers,
2001.
4. C. V. R. Murty, IITK-BMTPCC Earthquake Tips: Learning Seismic Design andd Construction,
National Information Centre of Eartthquake Engineering.
Introduction to Programming(Thheory)
BASIC OF COMPUTERS:
Computer fundamentals: Bits and Bytes , CPU, Memory, Input and output devicess, I/O devices,
operating system, Application software's , Number system- Decimal, BBinary, Octal,
Hexadecimal.Need for high level laannguages, Program design using flow charts
C LANGUAGE PRELIMINARIEES:
C character set, Identifier and keywwords, data types, declaration, expression, statementss and symbolic
constants.
Pre-processor commands: #includde, #define, #ifdef
Input-Output: getchar, putchar, sccaanf, printf, gets,puts.
Operators and expressions: Arrithmetic, unary,assignment, logical, conditional, and bit wise
operators.
Control statements: if else, for, whhile, do-while, switch, break, continue, nested loops.
Storage types: Automatic, externall, register andstatic variables.
Functions : Definiting and acccessing , Passing arguments, Function prototypees, Recursion,
Libraryfunctions, Static functions.
Arrays: Definiting and processing, Passing arrays to afunction, Multi-dimension arrayss.
Pointers: Basic concepts, malloc, ppointer and arrays, simple single linked list example.
Text/Reference Books:
1. Introduction to Computer Sciencee- ITL Education Solutions Limited , Pearson Educaation
2. Paul Deitel , C How to Program -5th Edition, PHI.
3. Dennis Ritchie and Brian Kernigghhan, The C Programming Language, PHI.
4. Behrouz A. Forouzan, Richarrd F. Gilberg, Computer Science: A Structured Programming
Approach Using C , Course Technoology
5. Gottfried, Byron S, Programmingg with C , TMH
Engineering Physics Lab
15

--- Page 20 ---
List of Experiments
1. To study the linear motion under virtually frictionless conditions using Linear Air Traack.
2. Determination of the Co-efficiennt of viscosity of a liquid from its rate of flow throuugh a capillary
tube.
3. Construction of one ohm coil.
4. Determination of the frequency oof a tuning fork by Melde’s apparatus.
5. Determination of acceleration due to gravity (g) by a Kater’s pendulum. 6. MMeasurementof
unknownwavelengthofalaserwithhadiffractiongrating
Engineering Graphics
Drawing instruments and their usees, lines, lettering and dimensioning, scales, plainss and diagonal
scale, curves used in engineeriing practice, ellipse, parabola, hyperbola, cycloid, involutes
orthographic projection, planes off projection, four quadrant, first angle projection, reference line,
convention employed. Projection oof points and lines, true length, true inclinations with reference
plane, traces of a line, end view, and illustrative problems. Projection of planes, traaces, end view
planes perpendicular to one inclinneed to other reference planes. Projections of solid such as prism,
pyramid, cone, cylinder, cube etc.
Text/Reference Books:
1. N.D. Bhatt , Elementary Engineeerring Drawing (Plane and solid geometry).
2. R.B Gupta , A text Book of Enginneering Drawing.
3. K.Venugopal , A text Book of Enngineering Drawing.
4. N.D. Bhatt, Machine Drawing.
5. R. K. Dhawan , A text Book of MMachine Drawing (In first angle projection)
Commputer Programming Laboratory
Programming simple problems exerrcising different features of C.
Basic Electronics Laboratory
Selected experiments based on Baasic Electronics.
1) Study of characteristics of transsistor indifferent modes i.e. common a emitter, commmon base and
common collector configuration.
2) Experiments on class-A, class-BB and AB of transistor power amplifiers.
16

--- Page 21 ---
3) Experiment on uncontrolled Diodde-Bridge rectifier.
4) Determination of hybrid parametters of a transistor.
5) Characteristics of JFET, MOSFEET.
6) Study of characteristics of MMoono-stable, Bistable and a-stable multi vibrators using bipolar
transistors.
7) Experiment on Schmitt Trigger CCircuit.
8) Study of LED, photo-Diodes, Phhoto-Transistors, Light Development Resistors and OOptoIsolators.
Text/Reference Books: -
1. Vladimir V.Mitin, Viatcheslav AA.Kochelap, Michael A. Stroscio, Introduction to Naanoelectronics -
Science, Nanotechnology,Engineeriing and Application, Cambridge University Press.
2. D. De and K. P. Ghatak , Basic EElectronics, Pearson Education.
3. R.F. Pierret, Semiconductor Deviice Fundamentals, Pearson Education.
4. Robert F Pierret and Gerold WW.Neudeck , Modular Services on Solid State Deevice, Addison
WesleyPublishingCompany
5. K. Sedra and Smith, Microelectroonic Circuits , Oxford
6. D. Carlo and Lin , Linear Circuitt Analysis, Oxford University Press
17

--- Page 22 ---
BTMT
COMPUTATIIONAL MATHEMAATICS
rrd
3 SEMESTER
18

--- Page 23 ---
BTMT 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Probability and Statistics
Probability
Introduction
Random experiment, σ-field, samplle space, probability as a set function, probability axxioms, probability
space, finite sample spaces, condittional probability, Baye’s theorem, independence, rrandom variables
(discrete and continuous), cumulaative distribution function, probability mass funcction, probability
density function, mathematical exxpectation, moments, moment generating functioon, characteristic
function, function of two random vaariables.
Discrete Distribution
Uniform, binomial, Poisson, geomeetric, negative binomial, hyper geometric distributionn.
Continuous Distribution
Uniform, normal, exponential, gammmma distribution.
Joint Distribution Function
Joint cumulative distribution functiioon and its properties, joint probability density functiion, marginal and
conditional distribution, expectatiioon of function of two random variables, momeents, covariance,
correlation coefficient, independennt random variables, joint moment generating functtion (JMGF) and
calculation of covariance from JMGGF, characteristic function, conditional expectation, linear regression
for two variables, regression curvess, bivariate normal distribution.
Statistics
Introduction
Markov and Chebyshev’s inequalitty, convergence in probability, statement and interppretation of weak
law of large numbers and central limit theorem for independent and identically distributed random
variables with finite variance.
Sampling and Sampling Distributtion
Population and sample, random saammple, distribution of the sample, simple random saampling with and
without replacement, sample characcteristics.
Sampling Distribution
Statistic, sample moments, sampplle variance, sampling from the normal distributtion, Chi-square,
Student’s t distribution and F-distribbution.
19

--- Page 24 ---
Estimation of Parameters
Point estimation and interval eestimation, mean-squared error, properties of ggood estimators:
unbiasedness, consistency, sufficciiency, Minimum Variance Unbiased Estimator (MVUE) (only
definition).
Method of Maximum Likelihood
Likelihood function, ML estimatorss for discrete and continuous models.
Bivariate Frequency Distribution
Bivariate data, scatter diagram, coorrelation, linear regression, principle of least squarres and fitting of
polynomialsandexponentialcurvess.
Reference Books
a) W. Feller, AnIntroduction to Probability Theory and Its Application, Wiley, 3rd Edition, 1970.
b) R. V. Hogg, J. W. McKean and Allen T. Craig, Introduction to Mathematiical Statistics,
Pearson Education, Asia, 20000.
c) R. L. Berger and G. Casella,, Statistical Inference, Duxbury Thomson Learning, 2nd Edition,
2002.
d) Meyer and Meyer, Introduccttory Probability and Statistical Applications, Oxxfford and IBH
Publishing, 2nd Edition, 20177.
e) N.G. Das, Statistical Methodss, Combined Edition (vol. I and II), Mc. Graw Hilll Education, 1st
Edition, 2017.
********
BTMT 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Mathematical Analysis
Point Set Topology
Limit points of a set and isolated ppoint of a set, closed sets, dense sets, countable and uncountable sets,
neighbourhood of a point, interiorr point, open set, union, intersection of open sets and closed sets,
Bolzano-Weierstrass theorem, seriies and sequence, Abel’s test, Dirichlet’s test, MMertens’ theorem,
Abel’s theorem, limit of a function.
Metrics and Norms
Metric spaces, normed vector spacees, convergence in metric spaces, continuous functionns, completeness,
20

--- Page 25 ---
Baire Category theorem, contractiion mapping theorem, connectedness, intermediatee value theorem,
compactness,Heine-Boreltheorem..
Integration
Function of bounded variation, Rieemmann-Stieltjes integral and relation with Riemann inntegral, Darboux-
Stieltjes integral, mean value theoreems.
Sequence and Series of Functions
Sequence andseriesoffunctions,uuniformconvergence,powerseries, Fourierseries,DDirichlet’sKernel,
Riemann-Lebesgue theorem, pointwwise convergence of Fourier series of functions of bounded variation,
Weierstrass approximation theoremm, equicontinuity, Arzela-Ascoli theorem.
Reference Books
a) K. R. Stromberg, Introductionn to Classical Real Analysis, Wadsworth Internationaal, Springer, 1981.
b) J. M. Howie, A First Course iin Real Analysis, Springer, 2001.
c) H. L. Royden, Real Analysis, MMacmillan USA, 3rd Edition, 1988.
d) R. G. Bartle and D. R. Sherbeert, Introduction to Real Analysis, Wiley, 4th Edition, 2011.
e) S. C. Malik, Principles of Reaal Analysis, New Age International Publishers, 1st Eddition, 2017.
f) S. K. Mapa, Introduction to Reeal Analysis, Sarat Book Distributor, 8th Edition, 20119.
g) Shanti Narayan and M. D. Raiisinghania, Elements of Real Analysis, S. Chand, 19665.
********
BTMT 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Differential Equation
Ordiinary Differential Equation (ODE)
Introduction
Introduction, formation of ODE, significance of ODE, geometrical and physical consideration,
solution of ODE in separable form.
First Order ODE
Exact and non-exact differential equations, simultaneous equations, first order linnear equations,
Bernoulli’s equation, first order higgher degree equations solvable for x, y and p, Clairraut’s form and
singular solutions.
21

--- Page 26 ---
Second Order ODE
Linear differential equations with constant coefficients, homogeneous and non-homoogeneous linear
ordinary differential equations of higher order, complementary function, method off undetermined
coefficients, series solution.
Parrtial Differential Equation (PDE)
Introduction
OriginofPDE,order,degree,lineaarr,non-linear, surfacesand curves, classificationofffirst orderPDE,
quasi-linear equations, derivation off PDE.
Linear PDE
Solutions of PDE of order one: Laggrange’s solution (type 1, type 2, type 3 and type 4), separation of
variables.
Non-linear PDE
Complete integral, particular integrral, singular integral, general integral, solution of nnon-linear PDE:
Charpit’s method.
Reference Books
a) W. E. Boyce and R. C. Dii Prima, Elementary Differential Equations and BBoundary Value
Problems, Wiley India, 9th EEdition, 2009.
b) E. A. Coddington, An Introdduction to Ordinary Differential Equations, PHI Learrning, 1999.
c) M. Braun, Differential Equaations and Their Applications, Springer-Verlag, 3rd EEdition, 1983.
d) T. Amarnath, An Elementaryy Course in Partial Differential Equations, Alpha Science International
Ltd, 2nd Edition, 2003.
e) P. Hartman, Ordinary Differrential Equations, John Wiley and sons, New York, 11964.
f) M. Hirsch, S. Smale and R. DDeveney, Differential Equations, Dynamical Systemms and Introduction
to Chaos, Academic Press, 22nd Edition, 2004.
g) I. N. Sneddon, Elements of PPartial Differential Equations, Dover, 2006.
h) S.L.Ross,DifferentialEquaations,WileyIndia,3rd Edition,1984.
i) R. Haberman, Elementaryy Applied Partial Differential Equations with Foourier Series and
Boundary Value Problem, PPrentice Hall, 4th Edition, 1998.
j) L. C. Evans, Partial Differenntial Equations, American Mathematical Society, Rhhode Island, 1998.
k) F. John, Partial Differentiall Equations, Narosa Publishing House, New Delhi, 11979.
l) M. D. Raisinghania, Ordinaary and Partial Differential Equation, S. Chand, 20117.
********
22

--- Page 27 ---
BTMT 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Discretee Mathematics and Fuzzy Set Theory
Set Theory
Sets and classes, relations and funcctions, recursivedefinitions, posets, lattice, Zorn’s leemma, cardinal
and ordinal numbers.
Logic
Propositional and predicate calculuus, well-formed formulae, tautology, equivalence, normal forms,
theory of inference.
Combinatorics
Permutation and combination, ppartition, Pigeonhole principle, Inclusion-Exclussion principle,
generating functions, recurrence rellaations.
Fuzzy Sets
Fuzzy sets, support of fuzzy set, 𝛼--level sets, strong and weak 𝛼-cut, fuzzy point, convvex fuzzy sets,
basic set theoretic operations on fuuzzy sets, cartesian products, algebraic products, bouunded sum and
difference, probabilistic sum of fuuzzzy sets, t-norms and t-conorms, quasi-coincidencee of two fuzzy
subsets and fuzzy points, fuzzy nummbers, triangular and trapezoidal fuzzy numbers.
Reference Books
a) C. L. Liu, Elements of Discrette Mathematics, Tata McGraw-Hill, 2nd Edition, 20000.
b) G. Bojadzieve and M. Bojaadzieve, Fuzzy Sets, Fuzzy Logic Applications, Woorld Scientific,
Illustrated Edition, 1996.
c) G. J. Klir, U. S. Clair and BB. Yuan, Fuzzy Set Theory: Foundation and Applicaation, Prentice
Hall, 1997.
d) H. J. Zimmermann, Fuzzy Sett Theory and Its Applications, Kluwer Academic, 3rd Edition, 1992.
e) J. L. Hein, Discrete Structureess, Logic and Computability, Jones and Bartlett, 3rd EEdition, 2010.
f) J. P. Tremblay and R. Maanohar, Discrete Mathematical Structures with AApplications to
Computer Science, McGraw HHill Education, 1st Edition, 2017.
g) K. H. Rosen, Discrete Mathemmatics and Its Applications, Tata McGraw-Hill, 6th EEdition, 2007.
h) L. H. Tsoukalas and R. E. Uhhrig, Fuzzy and Neural Approaches in Engineering, JJohn Wiley and
Sons, 1997.
i) N. Deo, Graph Theory, Prenttice Hall of India, 1974.
j) V. K. Balakrishnan, Introducttory Discrete Mathematics, Dover Publication, 20100.
********
23

--- Page 28 ---
BTMT 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Data Structure and Algorithm (Theory)
Basic concepts
Mathematical background, compleexity analysis. Arrays: one dimensional, multi-ddimensional, sparse
matrix, elementary operations, asymmptotic notations- o, O, θ, Θ, ω, Ω and their propertiees.
Preliminaries
Growth of functions, recurrence reellation, generating functions, solution of difference equations, Master's
theorem (without proof), sorting annd order statistics: bubble sort, merge sort, heap sort, quick sort, sorting
in linear time, median and order staattistics.
Linear Data Structure
Stacks: representation, elementary ooperations and applications such as infix to postfix, postfix evaluation,
parenthesis matching. Queues: siimple queue, circular queue, dequeue, elementaary operations and
applications. Linked lists: linear, ciircular and doubly linked lists, elementary operations and applications
such as polynomial manipulation.
Non-Linear Data Structure
Trees: binary tree representation, tree traversal, complete binary tree, heap, binary search tree, height
balanced trees like AVL tree and trries, red-black tree, other operations and applicationns of trees. Graphs:
representation, adjacency list, graphh traversal, path matrix, connected components, DAAG, topological sort,
spanning tree, radix sort. Searchingg: linear and binary search. Hashing: hash tables, haash functions, open
addressing.
File Structures
Introduction, data file types, file orgganization, file access methods.
Reference Books
a) Alfred V. Aho, Jeffrey D. Ullman, John E. Hopcroft, Data Structures and AAlgorithms, Addison
Wesley, 1983.
b) M. A. Weiss, Data Structurees and Algorithm Analysis in CTT, Addison-Wiesley, 3rd Edition, 2013.
c) A. M. Tenenbaum, Y. Langgssam, and M. J. Augenstein, Data Structures Using CC, PHI, New Delhi,
2009.
d) S. K. Srivastava, Data Strucctures Through C in Depth, BPB Publications, 2004..
e) T. H. Cormen, C. E. Leiserrsson, R.. L. Rivest and C. Stein, Introduction to Algoorithms, 3rd Edition,
PHI, 2009.
f) D. Samanta, Classical Dataa Structure, PHI Pvt. Ltd., 2011.
********
24

--- Page 29 ---
BTMT 3rd Semester
[Compulsory]
Data SStructure and Algorithm (Practical)
1. Write a C-program for a treeeDFS in matrix form.
2. Write a C-program for impllementation of linked list.
3. Write a C-program for impllementation of linked queue.
4. Write a C-program to displaay a single linked list.
5. Write a C-program to displaay a record in ascending and descending order using linked list.
6. Write a C-program to add and display records (name and enrolment no.) in aa double linked
list.
7. Write a C-program to displaay a record using linked list.
8. Write a C-program to displaay all the operations in a stack.
9. Write a C-program to insertt, delete, peek and display elements in a queue.
10. Write a C-program to displaay the adjacency matrix of a graph.
11. Write a C-program to displaay the nth term of Fibonacci series by iteration and reecursion.
12. Write a C-program Tower oof Hanoi.
13. Write a C-program to insertt and delete node in a tree.
14. Write a C-program to consttruct an AVL tree.
15. Write a C-program to impleement the depth-first search algorithm.
16. Write a C-program to read aand display a 2D matrix of integers, its transpose.
17. Write a C-program to multiiply two matrices.
Reference Books
a) T.H. Cormen, C.E. Leisersoon, R.L. Rivest and C. Stein, Introduction to Algorithhms, PHI, New
Delhi, 3rd Edition, 2009.
b) D. Samanta, Classical Data Structure, PHI Pvt. Ltd., 2011.
c) Alfred V. Aho, Jeffrey D. Ulllman, John E. Hopcroft, Data Structures and Algorrithms, Addison
Wesley, 1983.
d) M.A. Weiss, Data Structurees and Algorithm Analysis in CTT, Addison-Wesleey, 3rd Edition,
2013.
********
25

--- Page 30 ---
BTMT
COMPUTATIONAL MATHEMATICS
4" SEMESTER


--- Page 31 ---
BTMT 4th Semester
[Compulsory]
Algebra
Abstract Algebra
Groups, permutation group, symmmetric group, subgroups, coset, normal subgroupp, centralizers,
normalizers, stabilizers, kernels, cyyclic groups, subgroups generated by a subset of a ggroup, quotient
groups, Lagrange’s theorem, hhomomorphisms, isomorphism theorems, compoosition series,
epimorphism, endomorphism, auttoomorphisms, rings, ring homomorphisms, Booleaan ring, ideal,
quotient ring, ring embeddings, inttegral domain, properties, fields with examples, chaaracteristic of a
field, properties of field.
Linear Algebra
Vector spaces, bases and dimennsions, change of bases and change of coordinaattes, sums and
direct sums, spanning sets and iindependence, the dimension of a vector spacee,, existence of
eigen values, eigen vectors, eigenn space, generalized eigenvectors, the complexifiication of a real
vector space, quotient space, linearr transformations, the kernel and image of a linear ttransformation,
the rank and nullity theorem, channge of bases for linear transformations, solvabilityy of system of
linear equations.
Reference Books
a) S. Axler, Linear Algebra Done RRight, Springer International Student Edition, 2nd Edition, 1997.
b) K. Hoffman and R. Kunze, Lineear Algebra, Prentice Hall Int. Inc., Englewood Cliffffs, 2nd Edition,
1971.
c) S. Lang, Algebra, Addison-Wesslley, 3rd Edition, 1999.
d) J. A. Gallian, Contemporary Abbstract Algebra, Narosa, 4th Edition, 1999.
e) M.Artin,Algebra,PrenticeHalllinc.,1994.
f) I. N. Herstein, Topics in Algebrra, John-Wiley, 1995.
g) M. T. Nair and A. Singh, Linearr Algebra, Springer, 2018.
h) D. S. Dummit and R. M. Foote, Abstract Algebra, John-Wiley, 2nd Edition, 1999.
********
BTMT 4th Semester
[Compulsory]
Numerical Analysis
Error Analysis
Definition and sources of errors, propagation of errors, backward error analysis, ssensitivity and
conditioning, stability andaccuracyy, floating-point arithmetic and round-off error.
27

--- Page 32 ---
Algebraic and Transcendental Eqquation
Nonlinear equations, bisection methhod, secant method, Newton's method and its variannts, fixed point
iterations, convergence analysis, Neewton's method for non-linear systems.
Interpolation
Finite differences, polynomial inteerpolation, Hermite interpolation, spline interpolattion, b-splines,
numerical differentiation.
Numerical Integration
Trapezoidal and Simpson's rulees, Newton-Cotes formula, Gaussian quadraturee, Richardson
extrapolation.
Ordinary Differential Equation
Taylor series method, Picard’s iteerrative method, Euler and modified Euler methodss, Runge-Kutta
methods, multistep methods, preddictor-corrector methods, accuracy and stability, finite element
method, finite difference method.
Reference Books
a) James L. Buchanan and PPeter R. Turner, Numerical Methods and Analysis, MMcGraw-Hill, 1992.
b) John H. Mathews, Numeerrical Methods for Mathematics, Science and Engiineering, Prentice-
Hall, 2nd edition, 1992.
c) Kendall E. Atkinson, An Inntroduction to Numerical Analysis, John Wiley and SSons, 1989.
d) M. K. Jain, S. R. K. Iyenngar, R. K. Jain, Numerical Methods for Scientificc and Engineering
Competition, Wiley Easterrn, 1985.
e) S. S. Sastry, Introductory MMethods of Numerical Analysis, PHI, 5th Edition, 20112.
********
BTMT 4th Semester
[Compulsory]
LPP and Game Theory
Linear Programming
Lines and hyperplanes, convex sets, convex hull and their properties. formulaation of a linear
programming problem, theorems ddealing with vertices of feasible regions and opttimality, graphical
solution, simplex method (includinng Big-M method and two phase method), infeasibble and unbounded
LPPs, alternate optima, dual probleem and duality theorems, dual simplex method andd its application in
post optimality analysis, revised simmplex method, sensitivity analysis, parametric progrramming.
28

--- Page 33 ---
Transportation Problem
Introduction, existence of solutioonn, degeneracy, MODI method (including the theory), assignment
problem, Hungarian method for solvving assignment problems, travelling salesman probllem.
Introduction to Game Theory
Introduction, minimax (maximin), criterion and optimal strategy, solution of games wwith saddle points,
rectangular games without saddle ppoints – 2 × 2 games – dominance principle – m × 22 and 2 × n games
–graphical method.
Reference Books
a) K. Swarup, Operations Reesearch, Sultan Chand and Co., 2014.
b) S. D. Sharma ,Operations Research, Kedarnath, Ramnath and Co., 2002.
c) J. K. Sharma, Operation RResearch, MacMilan, 2006.
d) Hiller and Libermann, Inttrroduction to Operation Research, TMH, 2017.
e) Wayne L.Winston, Operattiion Research, Thomson BrooCole, 2003.
f) H. A. Taha, An Introductioon to Operations Research, PHI, 2010.
g) J. G. Chakravorty and P.. R. Ghosh, Linear Programming and Game theoryy, Moulik Library,
2012.
********
BTMT 4th Semester
[Compulsory]
Computer Organization
Digital Logic
Boolean algebra, logic gates.
Computing and Computer
Evolution of computer: mechanniical era, electronic computers, integrated circuuits, processor
architecture, system architecture.
Design Methodology
System design: system representaation, design process, gate level, register level: register level
components, programmable logic ddevices, register level design, the processor level: pprocessor level
components, processor level designn.
29

--- Page 34 ---
Processor Basic

Computer organization, fundamentals, additional features, data representation: basic formats, fixed
point numbers, floating numbers, instruction sets: instruction formats, instruction types, programming
considerations.

Control Design

Instruction sequencing and instruction interpretation, hardwired control: design methods, multiplier
control unit, CPU control unit, micro programmed control: micro instructions and their encoding.

Memory

C.P.U memory interaction, memory array organization and technology, memory hierarchies, main
memory allocation, segment, pages and files, high speed memories, interleaved memories, caches and
associative memories, cache coherence: sequential and weak consistency, snoopy bus protocol and
directory based.

Input-Output Organization

Addressing I/O devices, data transfer synchronization, interrupt handling I/O channels, computer
peripherals and interfacing, direct memory access, examples of I/O buses: PCI, SCSI, USB.

Basics of Pipelining

Instruction and data pipelining, speedup, definitions of pipeline hazards: structural, data, control and
simple techniques for handling them.

Text Books

a) MM. Mano, Computer System Architecture, P.H.I 34 Edition, 2012.

b) J. P Hayes, Computer Architecture and Organisation, McGraw-Hill, 37 Edition, 2017.

¢) Carl Hamacher, Computer Organization,. McGraw-Hill, 5" Edition, 2011.

d) Stallings, Computer Organization and Architecture, Pearson Education India, 1 0” Edition
2016.

e) A. P. Malvino, Digital Computer Electronics, McGraw-Hill, 3 Edition, 1992.

3 oo 2k 2 os 2 28

BTMT 4" Semester
[Compulsory]

Object Oriented Programming (C++ and Python) (Theory)
Introduction to Object Oriented Programming

Evolution of programming methodologies, introduction to OOP and its basic features,
differences from procedural languages, data encapsulation, overloading binary operators,
overloading binary operators using friends, inheritance and polymorphism.

30


--- Page 35 ---
Introduction to C++
Basic components of a C++, proogram and program structure, compiling and exxecuting C++
Program.
Tokens, Expressions andControll Structures
Tokens, keywords, identifiers and constants, basic data types, user-defined and derivved, data types,
type compatibility, reference, variaables, scope resolution operator, type casting, implicit conversion,
operator precedence, control structuures, structure and function.
Classes and Objects Initializationn
Class specification, class objects, accessing class members, data hiding, pointers wwithin a class,
passing objects as arguments, friennd functions and friend classes, constant parameterrs and member
functions, structures and classes, sstatic members, constructors, destructor, constructoor overloading,
order of construction and destructtion, constructors with default arguments, dynamic initialization
through constructors, constructors with dynamic operations, constant objects and connstructor, static
data members with constructors andd destructors, nested classes.
Operator Overloading and Type CConversion
Defining operator overloading, oveerloading unary operators, manipulation of strings uusing operators,
rules for overloading operators, typee conversions.
Inheritance and Polymorphism
Deriving derived classes, single, mmultilevel, multiple, hierarchical, hybrid inheritance, constructors
and destructors in derived classes,, constructors invocation and data members, initiallization, virtual
base classes, abstract classes, delegaation, pointers to derived classes, virtual functions, implementation
of run-time polymorphism, pure virrtual functions.
Fundamental Concepts of Pythonn
Introduction to Python, history, uniqque features of Python, literals, variables and identiffiers, operators,
expressions and data types.
Control Structures
Selection control, iterative control.
Lists
List structures, lists (sequences), iteerating over lists.
31

--- Page 36 ---
Functions
Program routines, calling value-rettuurning functions, calling non value-returning functiions, parameter
passing, variable scope, dictionariess and sets, recursion, Python built in function, Pythoon user defined
functions, Python packages functioons, defining and calling function, the anonymous fuunctions, loops
and statement in Python, yield and ggenerators, Python modules and packages.
Text Files
Using text files, string passing, Pyytthon exceptions handling, handling an exception tryy, except, else,
try-finally clause, argument of an eexception, Python standard exceptions, raising an exxceptions, user-
defined exceptions.
Python Regular Expressions
Regular expressions, the match fuunction, the search function, matching vs searchinng, search and
replace, extended regular expressionns.
Reference Books
a) K. R. Venugopal, Rajkumaarr, T. Ravishankar, Mastering C++, TMH, 2006.
b) Lip man and Lajole, C++ PPrimer, Addison Wesley, 5th Edition, 2012.
c) Bjarne Stroustrup, The C+++ Programming Language, Addition-Wesley, 4th Ediition, 2013.
d) Robert Leffore, Object Oriieented Programming in C++, Galgotia Publications Pvt Ltd, 1999.
e) Balaguruswamy, Object Orriented Programming with C++, TMH, 7th Edition, 22017.
f) Timthy Budd, An Introducttiion to Object Oriented Programming with C++, Adddition-Wesley,
3rd Edition, 1991.
g) Kip R. Irvine, C++ and Obbjject-Oriented Programming, Prentice Hall, 1st Editioon 1996.
h) Kenneth A. Lambert, The FFundamentals of Python: First Programs, Course TTechnology Inc,
2nd Edition , 2017.
i) Eric Matthes, Python CCrash Course: A Hands-On Project-Based Inntroduction to
Programming, No Starch PPress, 2nd Edition, 2019.
j) Paul Barry, Head-First Pytthon: A Brain-Friendly Guide, Shroff/O'Reilly, 2nd Eddition, 2016.
k) Zed Shaw, Learn Python thhee Hard Way, Addison-Wesley, 1st Edition, 2017.
l) Charles Dierbach, Introducction to Computer Science using Python a Computattional Problem
Solving Focus, John-Wiley and Sons, 2013.
*********
32

--- Page 37 ---
BTMT 4th Semester
[Compulsory]
Object Orienteed Programming (C++ and Python) (Practical)
Programming in C++
Accessing class members, data hhiding, friend functions and friend classes, memmber functions,
structures and classes, constructoors, destructor, constructor overloading, dynamicc initialization
through constructors, operator ooverloading, overloading unary operators, overlooading binary
operators, manipulation of strings uusing operators, rules for overloading operators, typpe conversions,
single, multilevel, multiple, hieraarchical, hybrid inheritance, constructors invocattion and data
members, virtual base classes, abbstract classes, delegation, pointers to derived cclasses, virtual
functions, implementation of run-timme polymorphism, pure virtual functions.
Programming in Python
Literals, variables and identifiers, operators, expressions and data types, selection coontrol, iterative
control, list structures, lists (sequennces), iterating over lists, program routines, calling vvalue-returning
functions, calling non value-returnniing functions, parameter passing, variable scope, ddictionaries and
sets, recursion, yield and generatorss, using text files, string passing, exception handling..
Reference Book
a) K. R. Venugopal, Rajkumaarr, T. Ravishankar, Mastering C++, TMH, 2006.
b) Lip man and Lajole, C++ PPrimer, Addison Wesley, 5th Edition, 2012.
c) Bjarne Stroustrup, The C+++ Programming Language, Addition-Wesley, 4th Ediition, 2013.
d) Robert Leffore, Object Oriieented Programming in C++, Galgotia Publications Pvt Ltd, 1999.
e) Balaguruswamy, Object Orriented Programming with C++, TMH, 7th Edition, 22017.
f) Timthy Budd, An Introducttiion to Object Oriented Programming with C++, Adddition-Wesley,
3rd Edition, 1991.
g) Kip R. Irvine, C++ and Obbjject-Oriented Programming, Prentice Hall, 1st Editioon 1996.
h) Kenneth A. Lambert, The FFundamentals of Python: First Programs, Course TTechnology Inc,
2nd Edition, 2017.
i) Eric Matthes, Python CCrash Course: A Hands-On Project-Based Inntroduction to
Programming, No Starch PPress, 2nd Edition, 2019.
j) Paul Barry, Head-First Pytthon: A Brain-Friendly Guide, Shroff/O'Reilly, 2nd Eddition, 2016.
k) Zed Shaw, Learn Python thhee Hard Way, Addison-Wesley, 1st Edition , 2017.
l) Charles Dierbach, Introducction to Computer Science using Python a Computattional Problem
Solving Focus, John-Wiley and Sons, 2013.
**********
33

--- Page 38 ---
BTMT
COMPUTATIIONAL MATHEMAATICS
tth
5 SEMESTER
34

--- Page 39 ---
BTMT 5th Semester
[Compulsory]
Soft Computing
Artificial Neural Networks
Neural networks: overview of biioological neuro-system, mathematical models of nneurons, ANN
architecture, learning rules, learningg paradigms: supervised, unsupervised and reinforceement learning.
ANN training algorithms: percepptions, training rules, delta, multilayer perceptionn model, back
propagation algorithm, competitivee learning networks, Kohonen self organizing netwworks, Hebbian
learning, Hopfield networks, associiaative memories, applications of artificial neural netwworks.
Fuzzy Logic
Introduction to fuzzy logic, linguiistic variables, linguistic modifiers, propositions oof fuzzy logic,
measures of fuzziness, fuzzy infereence rules and fuzzy reasoning, fuzzification and ddefuzzification,
Mamdani- Sugeno inference rule, appproximate reasoning.
Population Based Optimization AAlgorithms
Genetic algorithms, evolution sstrategies, evolutionary programming, genetic programming,
differential evolution, selection, croossover, mutation, schema analysis, analysis of seleection, Markov
and other stochastic models, simulaated annealing, particle swarm optimization.
Reference books
a) J. S. R Jang, C.T. Sun and MMizutani E. Neuro, Fuzzy and Soft Computing, Pearrson Education
India, 1st Edition, 2015.
b) S. Haykin, Neural Networkks and Learning Machines, Pearson Education Ltdd., 3rd Edition,
2008.
c) Melani Mitchel, An Introduuction to Genetic Algorithm, MIT Press, 1996.
d) David Goldberg, Genetic AAlgorithm in Search, Optimization and Machine Learning, Addison
Wesley, 13th Edition, 1989.
e) Klir and Yuan, Fuzzy Sets aand Fuzzy Logic, Pearson, 1st Edition, 1995.
f) A. Das Bhattacharjee, Artiifficial Intelligence and Soft Computing for Beginneers, Shroff/X-
Team, 3rd Edition, 2018.
g) H. J. Zimmermann, Fuzzyy Set Theory and Its Applications, Allied Publissher’s Limited,
Springer, 2nd Edition, 19911.
h) George Klir, Fuzzy Sets andd Fuzzy Logic: Theory and Applications, Pearson, 19995.
********
35

--- Page 40 ---
BTMT 5th Semester
[Compulsory]
Integral Transform
Integral Transform
Basic concepts and definitions, inteeggral transform operator, kernel of the transformationn.
Fourier Transform
Definition and properties of Fouurrier transform, Fourier sine and cosine transformm, convolution
theorem for Fourier transform, Parsseval’s identity, finite Fourier sine and cosine transfoorm, inversion.
Laplace Transform
Laplace transform and its applicatioons.
Hankel Transform
Definition and properties of Hankkeel transform with examples, inversion formula, baasic concept of
Bessel’s equation and Bessel’s ffunction, recurrence relations of Bessel’s functioon, operational
properties of Hankel transform, Parrseval’s theorem, Hankel transform of derivatives, appplications.
Mellin Transform
Definition of Mellin transform anndd examples, Mellin transform of some special funnctions, Mellin
transform of derivatives and integraals, Parseval’s theorem, convolution theorem, applicaations.
Z-Transform
Definition and properties of Z-trannsform, inverse Z-transform (using partial fraction and residues),
convolution theorem, formation off difference equations, solution of difference equations using Z -
transform.
Reference Books
a) I. N. Sneddon, The Uses of IIntegral Transforms, McGraw-Hill Inc., US, 1972.
b) C. J. Tranter, Integral Trannsforms in Mathematical Physics, Methuen and Co., 1959.
c) I. N. Sneddon, Fourier Trannsform, McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1951.
d) W.V. Lovitt, Linear Integrall Equations, Dover Publications Inc., Reissue Edition, 2005.
e) F.G. Tricomi, Integral Equaations, Dover Publications, 1985.
f) L.C. Andrews and B. K. Shhivamoggi, Integral Transforms for Engineers, Prentice Hall India
Learning Private Limited, 22003.
g) Dr. G. S. Sandhu, Integraal Transforms and Their Applications, First Worldd Publications,
2015.
36

--- Page 41 ---
h) L. Debnath and D. Bhattta, Integral Transforms and Their Applications, Chapman and
Hall/CRC,2ndEdition,20066.
********
BTMT 5th Semester
[Compulsory]
Financial Mathematics
Introduction
Some basic definitions and terminollogy.
Basic Theory of Option Pricing
Single and multi-period binomial pricing models, Cox-Ross Rubinstein (CRR) moodel, Black-
Scholes formula for option pricing aas a limit of CRR model.
Stochastic Calculus
Brownian and geometric Browniann motion, theory of martingales, stochastic calculus, stochastic
differential equations, Ito’s formulla to solve SDE’s, applications of stochastic calculus in option
pricing.
Mean-Variance Portfolio Theory
Markowitz model of portfolio optimmization and Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM)), limitations
of Markowitz model and new measuures of risk.
Interest Rates and Interest Rate DDerivatives
Binomial lattice model, vasicek, huulll and white models for bond pricing.
Reference Books
a) Thomas Mikosch, Elemenntary Stochastic Calculus with Finance in vieew, World
Scientific, 1998.
b) Suresh Chandra, S. Dhaarmaraja, Aparna Mehra, R. Khemchandani, Financial
Mathematics: An Introducttion, Narosa Publishing House, Illustrated Editionn ,2013.
c) S. E. Shreve, Stochastic Caalculus for Finance, Vol. I and Vol. II, Springer, 1st Edition,
2004 .
d) Sean Dineen, Probability Theory in Finance: A Mathematical Guide to tthe Black-
Scholes Formula, AmericannMathematical Society, New Edition, 2006.
e) D. G. Luenberger, Investmeent Science, Oxford University Press, 2nd Edition, 2013.
f) M. Capińsky and T. Zasstawniak, Mathematics for Finance: An Introdduction to
37

--- Page 42 ---
Financial Engineering, Sprringer, 2nd Edition, 2011.
********
BTMT 5th Semester
[Compulsory]
Statistical Inference
Parametric models, parameters, ranndom sample and its likelihood function, statistic annd its sampling
distributions, problems of inferencce, overview of Bernoulli, binomial, Poisson, negaative binomial,
normal, exponential, gamma, Weeiibull, Pareto etc., concept of sufficiency, minimmal sufficiency,
Neyman factorization criterion, FFisher information, maximum likelihood estimators, method of
moment estimators, percentile eestimators, least squares estimators, minimum mean squares
estimators, uniformly minimum vvariance unbiased estimators, Cramer-Rao lowerr bound, Rao-
Blackwell theorem, different exammples, expectation maximization, statistical hypotheses-simple and
composite, statistical tests, critical rregions, type-I and type-II errors, size and power of a test, Neyman
Pearson lemma and its different aapplications, most powerful test, uniformly most powerful test,
unbiased test and uniformly most uunbiased test, likelihood ratio test, interval estimation, confidence
intervals, construction of confidennce intervals, shortest expected length, confidence interval, most
accurate one sided confidence intervval and its relation to uniformly most powerful test.
References Books
a) R. L. Berger and G. Casellaa, Statistical Inference, Cengage, 1st Edition, 2006.
b) E. L. Lehmann, G. Casella, Theory of Point Estimation Springer, 2nd Edition, 19998, (Corr. 4th
printing 2003 Edition, 20033).
c) T. S. Ferguson, Statistical DDecision Theory, Academic Press, 2014.
d) E. L. Lehmann, Testing of SStatistical Hypotheses, Wiley–Blackwell, 1966.
e) P. J. Bickel and K. A. Dokssuum, Mathematical Statistics, Chapman and Hall/CRRC, 2nd Edition,
2015.
f) J. O. Berger, Statistical DDecision Theory, Springer; 2nd Edition, 1985. (Corrr. 3rd printing
1993 Edition, 1993).
********
BTMT 5th Semester
[Compulsory]
Sccientific Computing (Practical)
Starting with MATLAB
MATLAB windows, arithmetic ooperations, elementary built-in-functions, elemennt by element
operations, scalar variables, compleex number, floating point arithmetic.
38

--- Page 43 ---
Array and Array Operations
Simple array, array addressing oor indexing, array construction, array orientationn, scalar array
Mathematics, array manipulation, aarray sorting, sub array searching, array size, arrayy and memory
utilization, multidimensional array construction and its manipulation, numeric data typpe: integer data
type, floating point data types.
Script M file
Creating and saving script file, inpuut to a script file, running a script file.
Function and Function File
Creating a function file, structure off a function file, comparison between script and funcction file.
Cell Array and Structure
Cell array creation and its manipuulation, retrieving cell array content, comma sepaarated list, cell
functions, cell array of strings, structure creation, structure manipulation, structture functions,
character string: string constructionn, string evaluation, string functions, cell array of strinngs.
Relational and Logical Operatorss
Relational and logical functions, opperator precedence. Control flow: for loops, while looops, if else end
construction, switch case constructiion, nested loop, break and continue command.
Application to Numerical Analysiis
Iterative method, bisection methodd, Newton Raphson method, Regula Falsi method, Graffe’s root
squaring method, power method, L.U. decomposition method, Romberg method, MMuller method,
Adams Moulton method, Newton’ss interpolation (forward and backward), Lagrange’ss interpolation,
divided difference method, numeriical differentiation (1st and 2nd Order), numerical integration, least
square method, Gauss eliminationn method, Gauss Seidal method, Jacobi iteration mmethod, Runge
Kutta method, Euler method, Milnee’s method, Adams Bashforth method.
Reference Books
a) A. Gilat, MATLAB: An Introducction withApplications, John Wiley and Sons, 6th Eddition, 2016.
b) L.V . Fausett, Applied Numericaal Analysis Using MATLAB, Pearson Education, 2ndd Edition, 2016.
c) S. C. Chapra and R. P. Cannaale, Numerical Methods for Engineers, McGraw HHill, 6th Edition,
2005.
d) R. Pratab, Getting Started with Matlab: A Quick Introduction for Scientists and Enggineers,
OUP USA, 7th Edition, 2016.
e) S. C. Chapra, Applied Numeerrical Methods with Matlab for Engineers and SScientists, Tata
McGraw Hill, 2008.
********
39

--- Page 44 ---
BTMT
COMPUTATIIONAL MATHEMAATICS
tth
6 SEMESTER
40

--- Page 45 ---
BTMT 6th Semester
[Compulsory]
Graph Theory
Introduction to Graphs
The concept of a graph, paths in ggraphs, graph models, graph terminology and special types of graphs,
bipartite graphs, complete graphss, external graphs, intersection graphs, operationss on graph, graph
isomorphism.
Blocks
Cutpoints, bridges and blocks, blockk graphs and cutpoint graphs.
Trees
Introduction to trees and characterizzations, applications of trees, spanning trees, minimmum spanning trees,
trees in computer science, centres and centroids, block cutpoint trees, independent cyycles and cocycles,
matroids.
Connectivity
Connectivity and line-connectivityy, graphical version of Menger's theorem, traverssability : Eulerian
graphs, Hamiltonian graphs.
Coverings and Matching
Coverings and independence, criticcal points and lines, matching, maximum matching pproblem, minimum
covering problems.
Representing Graphs
Adjacency matrix, incidence matrixx, cycle matrix.
Planarity
Plane and planar graphs, outerplaanar graphs, Kuratowski's theorem, other characterrizations of planar
graphs.
Colorability
Vertex coloring, chromatic numbeer, edge coloring, five color theorem, four color conjecture, unique
colorable graphs.
41

--- Page 46 ---
Directed Graphs
Basic definitions, types of connecteedness, covers and bases, distance concepts and mattrices, connectivity,
acyclic digraphs, cycles and traversaability, orientations and tournaments.
Network Flows
Max flow - min cut theorem, Mengeer's theorem, Ford-Fulkerson algorithm.
Reference Books
a) F. Harary, Graph Theoryy, Narosa Publishing House, 7th Edition, 2001.
b) Douglas B. West, Introduuction to Graph Theory, Prentice-Hall of India Pvt. LLtd., 2nd Edition,
1999.
c) Narsingh Deo, Graph Thheory with Applications to Engineering and Computeer Science,
Prentice-Hall of India Pvvt. Ltd., New Edition, 1979.
d) K.R. Parthasarathi, Basicc Graph Theory, Tata McGraw-Hill Publ. Co. Ltd., 11994.
e) Bondy and Murty, Graphh Theory with Applications, Elsevier Science Ltd, 19776.
********
BTMT 6th Semester
[Compulsory]
Nuumber Theory and Cryptography
Number Theory
Basis Representation
Principles of Mathematical inductiioon, the basis representation theorem, the fundamenntal theorem of
arithmetic, Euclid’s division lemmaa, divisibility, the linear Diophantine equation.
Combinatorial and Computationaal Number Theory
Fermat’s little theorem, Wilson’s theorem, generating functions, the use of computters in number
theory, fundamentals of congruencees, basic properties of congruences, residue systems, riffling.
Solving Congruences
Linear congruences, the theorems of Fermat and Wilson revisited, the Chinese remaainder theorem,
polynomial congruences.
42

--- Page 47 ---
Arithmatic Functions
Combinatorial study of ∅(n), formmulae for d(n) and ∅(n), multiplicative arithmetic functions, the
Mobius inversion formula, primitiive roots, properties of reduced residue systems, primitive root
modulo p.
Cryptography
Introduction
Basic objects of cryptography, seccrret-key and public-key cryptography, one-way andd trapdoor one-
way functions, cryptanalysis attack models, classical cryptography.
Block and Stream Ciphers
Modes of operation, DES and its vvariants, RCS, IDEA, SAFER, FEAL, BlowFish, AAES, linear and
differential cryptanalysis, streamm ciphers based on linear feedback shift reggisters, SEAL,
unconditional security.
Message Digest
Properties of hash function, MD2, MMD5 and SHA-1, keyed hash function, attack on hash function.
Public Key Parameters
Modular arithmetic, GCD, primalityy testing, modular square root, finite fields.
Intractable Problems
Integer factorization problem, RSSA problem, modular square root problem, discrete logarithm
problem, Diffie-Hellman problem, kknown algorithm for solving the intractable problemms.
Public Key Encryption
RSA, Rabin and EIGamalscemes, side channel attacks. Key exchange: Diffie-Hellmman and MQV
algorithms.
Reference Books
a) Douglas R. Stinson, Cryptooggraphy, Theory and Practice, CRC Press, 2nd Edition, 2002.
b) Alfred J. Menezes, Paul CC. Van Oorschot and Scott A. Vanstone, Handboook of Applied
Cryptography, CRC Press, 2001.
c) Johannes. A. Buchmann, Inntroduction to Cryptography, Springer, 1st Edition, 20001.
d) Steven D. Galbraith, Matheematics of Public Key Cryptography, Cambridge Unniversity Press,
2012.
e) Jonathan Katz, Yehuda LLindell, Introduction to Modern Cryptography, Chapman and
Hall/CRC, 1st Edition, 20077.
43

--- Page 48 ---
f) Jay R Goldman, The Queeen of Mathematics: A Historically Motivated Guiide to Number
Theory,AKPetersLtd.,1stEdition,1997.
g) Saban Alaca, Kenneth S WWilliams, Introduction to Algebraic Number Theorry, Cambridge
University Press, 1st Editionn, 2004.
h) Richard A Mollin, Advanceed Number Theory with Applications, CRC Press, A Chapman and
Hall Book,1st Edition , 20177.
i) Kenneth. H. Rosen, Elemeenntary Number Theory and Its Applications, Pearsoon, 6th Edition,
2011.
j) Kenneth Ireland and Michhael Rosen, A Classical Introduction to Modern NNuumber Theory,
Springer-Verlag, 5th Editionn, 1998.
* * * * * *
BTMT 6th Semester
[Compulsory]
Deesign and Analysis of Algorithms
Introduction
Definition, asymptotic notations annd complexity analysis (best, worst, and average caase), notions of
optimality, amortize analysis.
Algorithm Design Techniques
Greedy, divide and conquer, dynaamic programming with examples, fractional knappsack and 0-1
knapsack problems, integer, matrixx and polynomial multiplication, convex hull, closeest pairs, string
matching, FFT, extended Euclid's aallgorithm.
Graphs and Graph Algorithms
Definition, representations of grapphhs, depth first search, breadth first search, Kruskaal’s and Prim’s
algorithm for minimum spanningg tree, Dijkstra’s single source shortest path algoorithm, Floyd-
Warshallall-pairs shortest path algoorithm.
Computational Complexity
Introduction to NP completeness, the classes P and NP, polynomial reduction, NPP hard and NP
complete problems, introduction to branch-and-bound, backtracking and approximationn algorithms.
Reference Books
a) Thomas. H. Corman, Chaarles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest and C. Stein, IIntroduction to
Algorithms, PHI Learningg Pvt. Ltd., 3rd Edition, 2010.
b) G. Brassard and P. Brattley, Fundamentals of Algorithms, Prentice Hall IIndia Learning
Private Limited, 2nd Editioon, 1996.
c) Alfred V. Aho, Jhon E. HHoopcroft and J. D. Ullman, The Design and Analysiis of Computer
Algorithms, Addison -Weslley Publishing Company, 1974.
d) E. Horowitz, S. Sahni andd S. Rajsekaran, Fundamentals of Computer Algorithms, Golgotia
Publications (P) Ltd , 2nd EEdition , 2008.
********
44

--- Page 49 ---
BTMT 6th Semester
[Compulsory]
Machhine Learning and Data Mining
Machine Learning
Introduction
Introduction to machine learninng. Supervised learning: regression and classiffiication, linear
regression, logistic regression. CClassification algorithms: minimum distance classsifier, nearest
neighbour, Baye’s classifier, nneural classifier. Support vector machine, ddeecision trees,
random forest.
Evaluation Measures
Precision, recall, F-measure, ROOC curve.
Unsupervised Learning
K-means clustering, DBSCAN, hierarchical clustering, graph based clustering.
Learnability
Reinforcement learning, statisticcaal relational learning.
Dimensionality Reduction
Sequential forward and backwarrd search, singular value decomposition, princippaal component
analysis.
Data Mining
Basic concepts on data mining aand knowledge discovery in data bases, relationn to statistics,
databases, steps in data mininngg process, architecture of a typical data minning systems,
classification of data miningg systems, overview of data mining techhniques, data
preprocessing, data cleaning, daata integration, data transformation and data reeduction, data
generalization and summarizatiioon based characterization, a statistical perspeecctive on data
mining, association rules in largee databases, web mining, spatial mining, temporraal mining.
Reference books:
a) T.M. Mitchell, Machine Leaarning, Mc Graw Hill, 1st Edition,2017.
b) Kevin Murphy, Machine Learning: A Probabilistic Perspective, MIT Preess, Illustrated
Edition, 2012.
c) Dolf Zantinge and Pieter AAdriaans, Data Mining, Addison-Wesley, 1st Edition, 1996.
45

--- Page 50 ---
d) M.H. Dunham, Data Miniing Introductory and Advanced Topics, Pearson Education, 1st
Edition,2006.
e) Jiawei Han and Michelinne Kamber, Data Mining: Concepts and Techniiques, Morgan
Kaufmann, 3rd Edition , 20111.
f) Charu C Agarwal, Data Miining- The Text Book, Springer, 2015.
********
BTMT 6th Semester
[Compulsory]
Databbase Management System (Theory)
An Overview of Database
Database, database system, DBMSS components, data independence, data abstractionn, DDL, DML,
data dictionary, data integration, daattabase access method, advantages of using a DBMS..
Database System Architecture
Data models, schemas and instancees, DBMS architecture, data independence, database languages and
interfaces, database system environnmment, classification of database management systemms.
Data Model Using E-R Model andd Object Model
High-level conceptual, data modeels, entity types, entity sets, attributes and keys,, relationships,
relationship types, roles and structtural constraints, weak entity types, refining the EER design, ER
diagrams, naming conventions and ddesign issues, subclasses, super classes, inheritance.
File Organization
Secondary storage devices, paralleelizing disk access using RAID technology, bufferring of blocks,
placing file records on disk, operatiioons on files, files of unordered records (heap files), ffiles of ordered
records (sorted files), hashing tecchniques, other primary file organizations, types of single-level
ordered index, multilevel indexes, dynamic multilevel indexes using B-Trees and B+ Trees, indexes
on multiple keys, other types of inddeexes.
Relational Model
Relational model concepts, relationnal constraints and relational database schemas, upddate operations
and dealing with constraint violaations, basic relational algebra operations, additioonal relational
operations, relational calculus, tuplee calculus, domain calculus.
46

--- Page 51 ---
Relational Database Standard
Data definition, constraints, schemaa changes in SQL, basic queries in SQL, insert, dellete and update
statements in SQL, views (virtuaal tables) in SQL, specifying general constraintss as assertion,
additional features of SQL.
Normalization for Relational Dataabase
Functional dependencies, normal foorms based on primary keys: 1NF, 2NF, 3NF, Boycee-Codd normal
form,normalizationthroughsyntheesis,normalizationusingjoindependency.
Database Design and Tuning
Database design process, physicaal database design in relational databases, databbase tuning in
relational systems.
DatabaseRecoveryandSecurity
Transactions, recovery concepts, ttrransaction recovery, system recovery, media recovery, recovery
technique, recovery in multi databaase systems, database security issues, access controll for multilevel
security, data encryption.
Advanced Topics
Object-oriented and object relatiional databases, logical databases, web databasees, distributed
databases, data warehousing and daatta mining, no SQL.
Reference Books
a) Ramez Elmasri and Shaamkant B. Navathe, Fundamentals of Database Systtems, Pearson
Education, 7th Edition , 2017.
b) Henry F. Korth, Databaasse System Concepts, McGraw-Hill Publication, 6th EEdition, 2013.
c) Raghu Ramakrishnan, JJohannes Gehrke, Data Base Management System,, McGraw Hill
Education, 3rd Edition, 22014.
********
BTMT 6th Semester
[Compulsory]
Databasse Management System (Practical)
SQL query programming, designingg databases and accessing them for reasonably large applications.
Reference Books
a) R. Elmasriand S. Navathee, Fundamentals of Database Systems, Pearson, 6th EEdition, 2010.
47

--- Page 52 ---
b) Abraham Silberschatz, HHenry Korth, and S. Sudarshan, Database Systtem Concepts,
McGraw-Hill,6th Editionn,2013.
c) Raghu Ramakrishnan, DDaatabase Management Systems, WCB/McGraw-Hilll, 3rd Edition,
2014.
d) Bipin Desai, An Introductiion to Database Systems, Galgotia Publications PVTT LTD, 2012.
e) Serge Abiteboul, Richardd Hull and Victor Vianu, Foundations of Databaases., Pearson,
Facsimile Edition , 1994.
***********
48

--- Page 53 ---
BTMT
COMPUTATIIONAL MATHEMAATICS
tth
7 SEMESTER
49

--- Page 54 ---
BTMT 7th Semester
[Compulsory]
Randomized Algorithms
Introduction: what randomized allgorithms are, motivation for the design and use oof randomized
algorithms, types of randomized algorithms (Las Vegas and Monte Carlo), polynnomial identity
testing.
Events and probability, axioms off probability, the union bound, inclusion-exclusionn principle, the
balls and bins problem, conditionaal events, Bayes Law, Karger's randomized min-cuut algorithm.
Discrete random variables (BBernoulli, Binomial, Geometric), expectation, linearity of
expectation, coupon collector's problem, analysis of randomized quick sortt, conditional
expectation.
Markov's inequality, variance andd Chebyshev's inequality, randomized selection.
Chernoff-Hoeffding (CH) Boundss: derivation and different versions, load balancing, randomized
quicksort, packet routing in netwoorks, skip lists.
The probabilistic method, the exppectation argument, max-cut, maxSAT, the samplle and modify
method, independent sets, seconnd moment method, threshold behavior in ranndom graphs.
Derandomization: method of condditional expectations.
Lovaszlocallemma,derivationanndthetwoversions,edgedisjointpaths,satisfiability.
Algorithmic versions of the Lovaasz local lemma: Beck's algorithm, the algorithm of Moser and
Tardos. Distributed Maximal Indeependent Set (MIS) algorithms and the use of Beck's algorithm
in this context.
Randomized rounding to solve pprroblems in combinatorial optimization, maxSATT, max-cut, set
cover. Randomized rounding of ssemi definite programs, introduction to semi definnite programs,
the Goemans-Williamson algorithhmm for finding large cuts.
Markov Chains, applications to 2--SAT and 3-SAT, random walks on graphs, electrrical networks,
cover time, hitting time, s-t connecctivity algorithm.
Reference Books:
a) Rajeev Motwani, Prabhakkaar Raghavan, Randomized Algorithms, Cambridge University
Press, 1st Edition, 2004.
b) David Williamson, David SShmoys, The Design of Approximation Algorithmss, Cambridge
University Press, Illustratted Edition, 2011.
c) Devdatt Dubhashi, Alessanndro Panconesi, Concentration Of Measure For TThe Analysis
Of Randomized Algorithmmss, Cambridge University Press, New Edition, 20099.
********
50

--- Page 55 ---
BTMT 7th Semester
[Compulsory]
Image Processing
Introduction
Image definition and its representaation, neighborhood. Orthogonal transformations likke DFT, DCT,
wavelet.
Enhancement and Restoration
Contrast enhancement, smoothing aand sharpening, filtering and restoration.
Segmentation
Pixel classification, global/local graay level thresholding, region growing, split/merge techniques, edge
detection operators, Hough transforrm. Image feature/primitive extraction, component laabeling, medial
axis transform, skeletonization/thinnning, shape properties, textural features-moments, gray level co-
occurrence matrix, structural featurees. Fourier descriptor, polygonal approximation.
Compression
Coding, quantization, spatial and traansform domain based compression. Color image proocessing: color
model, enhancement, and segmentaattion.
Mathematical Morphology
Basic concepts, erosion, dilation, opening, closing. Advanced applications like biommedical image
processing, digital watermarking, ettc.
Reference Books:
a) R. C. Gonzalez and R. E. Woodss,, Digital Image Processing, Pearson, 4th Edition, 2018.
b) B. Chanda and D. Dutta Majuumder, Digital Image Processing and Analysis, Prrentice Hall of
India, 2nd Edition, 2011.
c) Azriel Rosenfel and Avinash C. Kak , Digital Picture Processing, Vol. 1 and 2, Accademic Press,
2nd Edition, 1982.
d) T. Y. Young and K. S. Fu, Handdbook of Pattern Recognition and Image Processingg, Vols. 1and 2,
Academic Press, New York, 19866.
e) A. Jain, Fundamentals of Digitaall Image Processing, Prentice Hall of India, 1989.
f) K. R. Castleman, Digital Image PProcessing, Pearson, 4th Edition, 1995.
********
51

--- Page 56 ---
BTMT 7th Semester
[Compulsory]
Optimization Techniques
Mathematical Foundations and BBasic Definitions
Concepts from linear algebra, geommetry and multivariable calculus.
Revised Simplex Method (with aand without artificial variables) Parametric and Post Optimal
Analysis
Overview of Simplex method, chaange in the objective function, change in the requiirement vector,
addition of a variable, addition of a constraint, parametric analysis of cost and requirement vector.
Search Method
Fibonacci and Goldsen section methhod.
Gradient Method
Method of conjugate directions forr quadratic function, steepest descent and Devidon-FFletcher-Powell
method.
Constrained Optimization
Method of feasible direction, cuttingg hyperplane method.
Non-linear Optimization
Unconstrained and constrained optiimization of several variables, Lagranges multiplierss, Khun-Tucker
theory. Numerical methods for optimmization.
Quadratic Optimization
Quadratic programming method due to Beale, Wolf and Vandepanne dualityy in quadratic
programming. Self -duality.
Integer Programming
Gomory’s cutting plane algorithm,, Gomory’s mixed integer problem algorithm. Brannch and bound
algorithm.
Numerical Optimization Techniqquues
Line search methods, gradient mmethods, Newton's method, conjugate direction mmethods, quasi-
Newton methods, projected gradiennt methods, penalty methods.
52

--- Page 57 ---
Software
Introduction to software for optimizzation techniques (LINGO/LINDO).
Reference Books
a) E.K.P. Chong and S.H. Zakk, An Introduction to Optimization, 2nd Edition, Wileyy, 2010.
b) R. Fletcher, Practical Methhods of Optimization, John Wiley, 2nd Edition, 2009.
c) D. G. Luenberger and Y. YYee, Linear and Nonlinear Programming, Springer Inddia, 3rd Edition,
2010.
d) M.S.Bazarra, J.J. Jarvis,aandH.D.Sherali,LinearProgrammingandNetworrkFlows,Wiley
India, 3rd Edition, 2008.
e) U. Faigle, W. Kern, and G. Still, Algorithmic Principles of Mathematical Programming,
Kluwe, 2002.
f) N. S. Kambo, Mathematicall Programming Techniques, East West Press, 1997.
g) D.P. Bertsekas, Nonlinear PProgramming, Athena Scientific, 2nd Edition, 1999.
h) M. S. Bazarra, H.D. Sheerali, and C. M. Shetty, Nonlinear Programmingg: Theory and
Algorithms, Wiley, 3rd Editiion, 2006.
********
BTMT 7th Semester
[Compulsory]
Stochastic Processes
Stochastic Processes
Definition and examples of stochhastic processes, classifications of stochastic processes, Markov
chains: definition and examples, trransition probability matrices, classification of statees of a Markov
chain, determination of higher orrder transition probabilities, stability of a Markovv chain, graph
theoretic approach, Markov chainss with denumerable number of states, reducible MMarkov chains,
Markov Chains with continuous state spaces, non-homogeneous Markov Chainss, Martingales,
Markov chains in continuous time: general pure birth and death processes, birth and ddeath processes
with absorbing states, Renewal proocesses: renewal processes in continuous time, rennewal equation,
renewal theorems, residual and eexxcess lifetime, renewal reward processes, regenerative renewal
processes, regenerative inventory ssystems, generalization of the classical renewal theeory, stochastic
processes in queuing and reliabilityy: general concepts of queuing systems, steady state and transient
behavior, birth and death processs in queuing theory, network of Markovian queeuing systems,
reliability, introduction to Browniaan motion: Wiener processes, differential equationss for a Wiener
process, Kolmogorov’s equations, the first passage time distribution for a Wiener pprocess, recent
developments.
Reference Books :
a) J. Medhi, Stochastic Processses, New Age Publishers, 2nd Edition, Reprint 2007.
b) S.Karlin and H. M. Taylor, A First Course in Stochastic Processes, Academic PPress,
1975.
********
53

--- Page 58 ---
BTMT
COMPUTATIIONAL MATHEMAATICS
tth
8 SEMESTER
54

--- Page 59 ---
BTMT 8th Semester
[Compulsory]
Formmaal Language and Automata Theory
Introduction
Introduction to language theory, allpphabets, definition of phrase structure grammar, production rules,
sentences, sentential forms, languagge, derivation. Chomsky Hierarchy of languages.
Regular Languages
Regular grammars, regular langguuage models, finite state machines (determinisstic and non-
deterministic), regular expressions,, equivalence of regular expressions, closure propeerties. Pumping
lemma of regular sets.
Finite Automata
Finite automaton, deterministic andd non-deterministic finite automata and their equivaleence.
Context -Free Languages
Context free grammar, derivation trrees, ambiguity simplification, normal forms, applicaations.
Pushdown Automata
Pushdown automata, definitions, cconstruction of PDA for simple CFLs, linear bounnded automata,
closure properties. Pumping Lemmaa for CFL.
Turing Machines
Turing machines, deterministic andd non-deterministic Turing machines, Multi-tape Tuuring machines,
Universal Turing machines, techniiques for construction of Turing machines, unrestriicted grammar,
Chomsky Hierarchy, computable fuunctions, computably enumerable languages, decidaable languages,
algorithmic solvable problems. Alltternative models of computation such as post macchine. Lambda
Calculus.
Reference Books
a) J. E. Hopcropt and J.D. Ullmaan, Introduction to Automata Theory, Language annd Computing,
Norasa Publishing, 2000.
b) M. Sipser, Introduction to theoryy of computation, Cengage Learning, 3rd Edition, 2014.
c) A. Singh, Elements of Computatiion theory, Springer Nature, 2011.
d) P. Linz, Introduction to formal laanguage and automata, Jones and Bartlett, 6thEditioon, 2016.
********
55

--- Page 60 ---
BTMT 8th Semester
[Compulsory]
Artificial Intelligence
Introduction
The foundation of AI. Importance oof AI and related fields.
Logic
Review of clausal form in propoositional logic, resolution principle, review of predicate logic,
Skolemization, unification, resolutioon principle for predicate logic.
Rules
Working memory, rule base, connflict set, conflict resolution strategies, backwardd and forward
chaining and meta rules.
Reasoning under Uncertainty
Probabilistic reasoning, Bayesian neetworks, certainty factor methods, Dampster-Shafer theory.
Structure Representation
Semantic networks, frames, conceppttual dependency, scripts, inheritance, default values.
General Issues in Knowledge Reppresentation and Interference
Logical agents, reasoning and resoollution, adequacy, richness, granularity, ease of reprresentation and
use, modeling uncertainty, the famee problem, declarative and procedural representation..
Problem Solving by Searching
State space representation, heuristiccs, heuristic evaluation function and problem reducttion. Searching
for solutions. Informed and uninforrmmed search strategies.
Search Methods
Generate and test, hill climbing, mmeans-ends analysis, depth-first, breadth-first, best ffirst, exploiting
domain constraints, dependency-ddirected back tracking, minimax, alpha- beta pruuning, iterative
deepening, A*, AO*.
Planning
Planning by forward and backward reasoning, nonlinear planning, scheduling.
56

--- Page 61 ---
Ethical Issues of AI
Reference Books
a) E. Rich and K. Knight, Artificiaal Intelligence, McGraw Hill Education, 3rd Edition, 2017.
b) Russell, Peter Norvig, Artificiial Intelligence a Modern Approach-Stuart, Pearsson, 3rdEdition,
2010.
c) P.H.Winston, Artificial Intelliggence, Addison- Wesley, 3rd Edition, 1994.
d) D.W. Patterson, Introduction ooff Artificial Intelligence and expert systems, PHI, 3rdd Edition, 1990.
********
BTMT 8th Semester
[Compulsory]
Deep Learning
Introduction
Historical context and motivation ffor deep learning, basic supervised classification taask, optimizing
logistic classifier using gradient deescent, stochastic gradient descent, momentum andd adaptive sub-
gradient method. Back propagationn. Vanishing gradient problem.
Neural Networks
Feed forward neural networks, deeep networks, regularizing a deep network, model eexploration and
hyper-parameter tuning.
Convolution Neural Networks
Introduction to convolution neuraal networks, stacking, striding and pooling, CNNN architectures,
applicationslikeimageandtextclasssification.AdvancedCNNsforcomputervision.
Sequence Modeling
Recurrent Nets, unfolding computaational graphs, Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs)), bidirectional
RNNs, encoder-decoder sequence too sequence architectures, deep recurrent networks, aadvanced RNN:
LSTM, GRU.
Advanced Deep architectures
Generative Adversarial Networks (GGANs). Advanced GANs.
57

--- Page 62 ---
Auto Encoders
Under complete auto encoders, reegularized auto encoders, sparse auto encoders, ddenoising auto
encoders, representational power, layer, size and depth of auto encoders, stochasticc encoders and
decoders.
Structuring Machine Learning Prrojects
Orthogonalization, evaluation mettrrics, size of the training, validation and test setss, cleaning up
incorrectly labeled data, bias and variance with mismatched data distributions, trannsfer learning,
multi-task learning.
Reference Books
a) Ian Goodfellow, Deep Learninngg, MIT Press, Illustrated Edition, 2017.
b) Jeff Heaton, Deep Learning annd Neural Networks, Heaton Research Inc, 1st Editionn, 2015.
c) Mindy L Hall, Deep Learning, VDM Verlag, 2011
d) Li Deng, Dong Yu, Deep Learnning: Methods and Applications , Foundations and TTrends in
Signal Processing, Now Publisshers Inc, 2014. https://doi.org/10.1561/20000000339
********
BTMT 8th Semester
[Elective – I]
Enginneeering Economics and Accountancy
Engineering Economics
Meaning, nature, scope and subject matter.
Utility
Definition, total, marginal and averaage, cardinal utility theory, indifference curves theorry.
Demand
Factors effecting demand, elasticittyy of demand, different types of elasticity, classification of goods
based on various elasticityof demannd.
Production
Production function, Iso-quant, retuurns to scale, total, average and marginal product, llaw of variable
proportions, Cobb-Douglas produucction function, ISO-cost curve, derivation of cost curve from
production function, production opttimization, expansion path.
58

--- Page 63 ---
Cost
Short run and long run cost (the ‘EEnvelope Curve’), shape of different types of cost cuurves, revenue,
total revenue and marginal revenue,, relation between marginal revenue and price elasticcity of demand.
Firm
Different types of firm and its charaacteristics, traditional theory of firm, objectives of firrm.
Introduction to Accounting
Definition of accounting and accouuntancy, objectives of accounting, users of accountinng information,
double entry system of Book-Keepiing, Journal and Ledger, cash book, trial balance.
Final Accounts
Basic concepts, uses and preparatiioon of trading account, profit and loss account and balance sheet.
issue and forfeiture of share and re-iissue of company.
Introduction to Costing
Elements of cost, direct materials,, direct labor, direct expenses, overheads, productiion, office and
administration, selling and distribuution, allocation of overhead, machine hour rate, laabor hour rate,
practical problems.
Reference Books
a) A. Koutsoyiannis, Modern Miccroeconomics, Macmillan, 2nd Edition, 1979.
b) A. Sen, Microeconomics: Theoory and Applications, Oxford University Press, Indiann Branch,
2000.
c) R.S. Pindyck and D.L. Rubinfeelld, Microeconomics, Prentice-Hall, 8th Edition, 20177.
d) Hal Varian, Microeconomic Annalysis,Viva Books, 3rd Revised Edition, 2019.
e) Mukherjee and Haniff, Modernn Accountancy, Volume I, McGraw Hill Education, 33rd Edition,
2018.
f) Basu and Das, Theory and Praactice of Costing, Rabindra Library, 9th Edition,20011.
********
59

--- Page 64 ---
BTMT 8th Semester
[Elective – I]
Compuuter Networks and Security (Theory)
Introduction
Network criteria, physical structuure (type of connection, topology), categories of nnetwork (LAN,
MAN, WAN), internet, brief hisstory, protocols and standards, reference models: OSI reference
model, TCP/IP reference model. DDesign issues of layers.
Physical Level
Overview of data, signal, transmmission and transmission media (guided and ungguided), circuit
switching and packet switching, teellephone network.
Data Link Layer
Types of errors, framing (characteer and bit stuffing), error detection and correction methods, flow
control. Protocols: stop and wait AARQ, Go-Back- N ARQ, selective repeat ARQ, HHDLC, medium
access sublayer: point to point prootocol, LCP, NCP, token ring, reservation, polling. MMultiple access
protocols: pure ALOHA, slotted ALOHA, CSMA, CSMA/CD, CSMA/CA. Traditiional Ethernet.
Fast Ethernet.
Network Layer
Internetworking and devices: reppeaters, hubs, bridges, switches, router, gateway. AAddressing: IP
addressing, sub netting. Routing: techniques, static vs. dynamic routing. Unicast rouuting protocols:
RIP, OSPF, BGP. Other protocols:: ARP, IP, ICMP, IPV6. Congestion Control algorithhms. Quality of
service: Leaky bucket algorithm, TToken bucket algorithm.
Transport Layer
Process to process delivery, sockett address, UDP, TCP.
Application Layer
Introduction to DNS, SMTP, SNMMP, FTP, HTTP and WWW.
Security
IDPS and firewalls, cryptography bbasics, symmetric and asymmetric cryptography: DEES, AES, RSA,
hashing, digital signature, digital CCertificates.
60

--- Page 65 ---
Reference Books
a) J. Kurose and K. Ross, Commputer Networking: A Top-Down Approach, Pearsoon, 7th Edition,
2016.
b) A. S. Tanenbaum , Computer NNetworks, Pearson Education India, 5th Edition , 20113.
c) L.L. Peterson and B.S. Davie, Computer Networks: A Systems Approach, Morgann Kaufman, 6th
Edition, 2020.
d) S. William, Cryptography andd Network Security - Principles and Practice, Pearsoon, 6th Edition,
2013.
e) Forouzan and Mukhopadhyayy, Cryptography and Network Security, Mc Graw Hill India, 3rd
Edition,2015.
********
BTMT 8th Semester
[Elective – I]
NNon Stationary Data Analysis
Exploratory Analysis of Time Serries
Introduction, examples, simple deescriptive techniques, trend, seasonality, stochasticc and deterministic
approaches, numerical and experriimental data sets, challenges in data analysis aand data graphical
representation, interpretation, statiisstical tests, significance and power of a test, chooice of the critical
region, constructing test statistics: tthe fisher discriminate, mean and variance test, testing goodness-of-fit,
stationary time series process (ARMMA Processes), ARIMA Process, GARCH Process/MModel.
Analysisof Stochastic Series
Model identification and non-statioonary time series models, forecasting with classical regression models,
forecasting with autocorrelations, ffoorecasting with lagged dependent variable, forecast error statistics and
evaluation, singularity detection, spectral density function, the period gram, spectral analysis,
correlogram, wavelet cross-correlattiion, multi-resolution analysis, examples and applicattions.
Clustering and Classification of Nonn stationary data.
Reference Books
a) Box and Jenkins, Time Seriiees Analysis, Prentice-Hall, 5th Edition, 1991.
b) Peck and Devore, Statisticss: The Exploration and Analysis of Data, Thomson-BBrooks/Cole , 7th
Edition,2012.
c) D. Montgomery, C.L. Jennnings and M. Kulahci, Introduction to Time Serries Analysis and
Forecasting, Wiley, 1st Ediittion 2008.
d) C. Chatfield, The Analysis oof Time Series, Chapman and. Hall/CRC , 6th Editioon, 2004.
e) Petre Stoica and L. Mosees Randolph, Introduction to Spectral Analysis, PPrentice Hall, 6th
Edition,1997.
f) H. Robert, Shumway and SS. Stoffer David, Time Series Analysis and Its Apppplications with R
61

--- Page 66 ---
Examples, Springer Texts inn Statistics , 3rd Edition, 2006.
g) M. Rao Raghuveer and Ajit S. Bopardikar, Wavelet Transform, Pearsoon Education, 1st
Edition,1998.
********
BTMT 8th Semester
[Elective – I]
Operation Research – I
Goal Programming
Introduction, difference between liinear programming and goal programming approacch, concept of goal
programming, graphical solution-mmethod of goal programming, modified simplexx method of goal
programming.
Dynamic Programming
Introduction, nature of dynamicc programming, deterministic processes, non-ssequential discrete
optimization, allocation problems,, assortment problems, sequential discrete optimmization, long-term
planning problem, multi-stage deccision process, application of dynamic programmming in production
scheduling and routine problems.
Inventory Control
Inventory control, deterministic incclluding price breaks and multi-item with constraints. Probabilistic (with
and without lead time). Fuzzy and ddynamic inventory models.
Queuing Theory
Basic structure of queuing models. Poisson queues, M/M/I, M/M/C or finite and inffinite queue length,
Non-Poisson queue- M/G/I, Machinne-Maintenance (steady state).
ReplacementandMaintenanceMModels
Introduction. Failure Mechanism off items, replacement of items deteriorates with time, replacement policy
for equipment when value of moneey changes with constant rate during the period. Repplacement of items
that fail completely individual repplacement policy and group replacement policy. Other replacement
problems staffing problem. Equipmment renewal problem.
Simulation
Introduction. Steps of simulationn process, advantages and disadvantages of simuulation. Stochastic
simulation and random numbers. MMonte–Carlo simulation. Random number. Generattion. Simulation of
62

--- Page 67 ---
inventory problems, simulation off Queuing problems, role of computers in simulation. Application of
simulations.
Reference Books
a) A.P. Verma, Introduction to OOperations Research, S.K. Kataria and Sons, 3rd Edittion 2014.
b) A. Taha Hamdy, Operations RResearch: An Introduction, Pearson Education India,, 10th Edition, 2017.
c) P K Gupta, Operations Researrch, S Chand, 5th Edition, 1976.
d) J K Sharma, Operations Reseaarch, Theory and Applications, Macmillan India Ltdd, 3rd Edition,2006.
e) D.S Hira and P K Gupta, Opeerations Research, S Chand,4th Edition, 2015.
********
BTMT 8th Semester
[Elective – I]
Mathemmatical Modelling and Simulation – I
Mathematical Models
Deterministic and stochastic. Sinngle species population models. P-V Logistic equation.
Population growth model-an age strructured model.
Interactions Between Two Speciess
Host-Parasite type of interactions, competitive type of interactions. Trajectories of intteractions
of H-P and competitive types betwween two species. Effect of migration on H-P inteeractions.
Some consequences of Lotka-Voollterra equations. Generalized L-V equations. Connstant of
motion in the dynamical system.
Stochastic Processes and Need of Stochastic Models
Pure birth process, pure death procceess, birth and death process. Linear birth-death-immmigration-
emigration processes. Effects off both immigration and emigration on the dynaamics of
population.
Biological Mechanisms Responsibble for "Time-Delay"
Discrete and continuous time-delayy. The single species logistic model with the effectt of time-
delay. Stability of equilibrium poosition for the logistic model with general delay function.
Stability of logistic model for disccrete time lag. Time-delayed H-P model together wwith their
stability analysis.
63

--- Page 68 ---
Mathematical Theory of Epidemiics
Some basic definitions. Simple epiddemic model, general epidemic model. Kermack-MMcKendrik
threshold theorem. Recurring epidemmic model. A comparative study of these models.
Control of an Epidemic
Stochastic epidemic model withoouut removal. Models having multiple infections. EEpidemic
model with multiple infections. Stoochastic epidemic model with removal. Stochastic epidemic
model with removal, immigration aand emigration. Special discussion on the stochastic epidemic
modelwithcarriers.
Simple Extensions of SIR Model
Different case studies - (i) loss of iimmunity, (ii) inclusion of immigration and emigraation, (iii)
immunization. SIR endemic diseasee model.
ReferenceBooks
a) X. Q. Zhao, Dynamical Sysstems in Population Biology, Canadian Mathemaatical Society, 3rd
Edition,2003.
b) R M Andersson and R M May,, Infectious Diseases of Humans. Oxford University Press, Revised ed.
Edition , 1992.
c) J. N. Kapur, Mathematical MMoodels in Biology and Medicine, East West Press Pvt Ltd ,1st Edition,
1985.
d) R. Habermann, Mathematicall Models: Mechanical Vibrations, Population Dynaamics, and Traffic
Flow : An Introduction to Apppllied Mathematics, Prentice Hall, 1st Edition 1977.
e) E. C. Pielou, An Introduction tto Mathematical Ecology, Wiley, 1st Edition, 1970.
f) R. Rosen, Foundation of Maathematical Biology (vol. Iand II): Supercellular SSystems, Academic
Press. 2013.
g) Mark Kot, Elements of Mathemmatical Ecology, Cambridge University Press, 2001.
h) J. D. Murray, Mathematical BBiology, Springer-Verlag, Berlin 1989.
********
BTMT 8th Semester
[Elective – I]
Compiler Design
Introductory Concepts
Analysis-synthesis model of coompilation, various phases of a compiler, crooss compilers,
bootstrapping.
Lexical Analysis
64

--- Page 69 ---
Interface with input, parser and ssymbol table, token, lexeme and patterns, difficullties in lexical
analysis,errorreportingandimplemmentation.Regulardefinition,transitiondiagramandd LEX.
Syntax Analysis
Context free grammars, ambiguityy, associativity, precedence, top down parsing, reccursive descent
parsing, transformation on the grammmars, predictive parsing, bottom up parsing, operaator precedence
grammars, LR parsers (SLR,LALRR, LR), YACC. SYNTAX DIRECTED TRANSLATTION: inherited
and synthesized attributes, dependeenncy graph, evaluation order, bottom up and top downn evaluation of
attributes, L- and S-attributed definiitions.
Type Checking
Type system, type expressions, struuctural and name equivalence of types, type conversiion, overloaded
functions and operators, polymorphhic functions.
Run Time System
Storage organization, activation trreee, activation record, parameter passing, symbol ttable, dynamic
storage allocation.
Intermediate Code Generation
Intermediate representations, trannslation of declarations, assignments and interrmediate code
generation for control flow. Booleann expressions and procedure calls, implementation isssues.
Code Generation and Instructionn Selection
Issues, basic blocks and flow grapphs, register allocation, code generation, DAG reppresentation of
programs, code generation fromm dags, peep hole optimization, code generatoor generators,
specifications of machine.
Code Optimization
Source of optimizations, optimizattion of basic blocks, loops, global dataflow analyssis, solution to
iterative dataflow equations, code iimmproving transformations, dealing with aliases, dataa flow analysis
of structured flow graphs.
Reference Books
a) Aho Ullman, Shetty, Compiilers: Principles, Techniques and Tools, Pearson ,2ndd Edition,2008.
b) Kenneth C. Louden, Compiiller Construction: Principles and Practice,Thomson Books Course
Technology Inc, Internationnal Edition, 1997.
********
65

--- Page 70 ---
BTMT
COMPUTATIIONAL MATHEMAATICS
tth
9 SEMESTER
66

--- Page 71 ---
BTMT 9th Semester
[Compulsory]
Complexityy Theory and Approximation Algorithms
Computability
Review of decidability, acceptancce problem, halting problem, problem reduction, Rice theorem.
Undecidable problems: about finiite automata, about pushdown automata, post’s ccorrespondence
problem. Undecidable logical theorries, recursion theorem.
Complexity Theory
Complexity classes, space compllexity, time complexity, classes P and NP, polynomial time
reductions, NP-completeness, Cookk-Levin theorem, vertex cover problems, Hamilton path problem.
Subset sum problem, Hierarchy theoorems, circuit complexity.
Approximation Algorithms
Set cover, max-SAT, knapsack, bbin packing, scheduling, spanners, steiner trees, cuuts, clustering,
facility location, traveling salesmaan tour, network design, metric embeddings. Design techniques:
greedy, local search, dynamic proggramming, linear program formulations, dual fittinng, primal-dual
method, rounding of linear/semi deeffinite programs, random sampling, derandomizationn, power of two
solutions. Lower bounds on approxiimations and the relevant complexity classes.
Reference Books
a) M. Sipser, Introduction to tthheory of computation, Cengage Learning, 3rd Editioon, 2014.
b) A. Singh, Elements of Compputation Theory, Springer, 2009.
c) David P. Williamson and DDavid B. Shmoys, The Design of Approximation Algorrithms,
Cambridge University Presss, Illustrated edition , 2011.
d) Vijay V. Vazirani, Approximmation Algorithms, Springer, Illustrated Edition, 20110.
e) Dorit S. Hochbaum , Approoximation Algorithms for NP-hard Problemsedited, CCourse
Technology, 1996.
f) Sariel Har-Peled, Geometriic Approximation Algorithms, American Mathematiccal Society,
2011.
********
67

--- Page 72 ---
BTMT 9th Semester
[Compulsory]
Sociial Media Data Analysis (Theory)
Online Social Networks (OSNs)
Introduction, types of social networrks (e.g. Twitter, Facebook), measurement and colleection of social
network data, social networks-basicc structure and measures, basics of text processing ovver social data,
entity linking and entity resolution ffor social data.
Studying Characteristics of OSNss
Information diffusion, experimentall studies over OSNs, sampling.
Fundamentals of Social Data Anaalytics
Topic models, random walks, heteroogeneous information networks.
Applied Social Data Analytics
Recommendation systems, communnity identification and link prediction.
Other Advanced Topics
Online experiments for computationnal social science, big data sampling.
Reference Books
a) Matthew A. Russell, Mining the SSocial Web: Data Mining Facebook, Twitter, Linkeddin, Google+,
Github and More, O'Reilly Media, 2nd Edition 2013.
b) Jennifer Golbeck, Analyzing the social web, Morgan Kaufmann, 1st Edition, 2013.
c) Charu Aggarwal, Social Networrkk Data Analytics, Springer, 2011.
********
BTMT 9th Semester
[Compulsory]
BBig Data Analytics (Practical)
Identification of Spam and non-sspam (ham) mails from your mail account, moviie reviews for
recommendation (IMdb data sets arre available), share market values prediction (Yahooo Finance, BSE
and many other data sheets are available), text analysis and search (in different languages)-an
assignments could be search based oon “context”, image analysis and search.
*********
68

--- Page 73 ---
BTMT 9th Semester
[Elective-II]
Data Communication
Introduction
Basic goals of communication, ssiignals for communication: time-domain and freqquency domain
representation of signals. Analog/ddigital/sampled, periodic/a periodic, deterministic/raandom signals.
Fourier series, Fourier transform ffrrequency spectrum, filtering and bandwidth. Messaage transducers
and signal converters. Communiiccation channel: important characteristics of a ccommunication
channel. Available communicatiion channels (media) and their properties. BBaseband data
communication: basic concepts oof analog and digital communication in the baseeband. Various
encoding formats for data. Attenuattion and distortion problems and remedies. Maximumm data rate of a
channel. Analog modulation and ddemodulation techniques: AM/FM/PM, principle off demodulating
various kinds of modulated siggnals. Coherent and incoherent receiver digitaal modulation-
ASK/FSK/PSK, Binary and M-arraay data modulation, continuous phase modulation-binary and M-
array CPFSK, MSK, partial responnse CPM. Pulse modulation and pulse coded modulaation schemes-
PAM/PWM/PPM, PCM/DPCM/AADPCM/DM etc. Reliable and efficient asynchronous and
synchronous data communication:: block error handling and channel coding. Bit and character
oriented framing. Transparent daatta communication. Error detection and correctioon in a frame
LRC/VRC/Checksum/ CRC and Haamming code.
Protocols for Data Communicatioon
Stop and wait protocol and its effiiciency, sliding window protocols-go-back-n and seelective repeat.
Modem technologies: QAM/MSK/CCPFSK/ADSL/Cable Modem.
Wireless Communication
Data communication over radio/mmicrowave/satellite/infrared links. Principles of sppread spectrum
communication- DSSS, FHSS.
Optical Communication Technoloogy
Basic principles and components ffoor point-to-point communication. Multimedia commmunication and
data compression.
Reference Books
a) S. Haykin, Communication Sysstems,John Wiley, 3rd Edition, 1994.
b) H. Taub and D. Schilling, Prinnciples of Communication Systems, Tata McGraw HHill, 3rd Edition,
2007.
c) W. Stallings, Data and Compuuter Communications, Pearson education Asia (IPEE), 6th Edition,
2000.
69

--- Page 74 ---
d) F. Halshall, Data Communicaations, Computer networks and Open Systems, Pearrson Education
Asia(IPE),4thEdition,1996.
e) B. A. Forouzan, Data Communnications and Networking, Tata McGraw Hill, 3rd Eddition, 2003.
f) D. Bertrekas and R. Gallagar, Data Networks, Prentice Hall (EEE), 2nd Edition, 19992.
g) J. G. Proakis and M. Salehi, CCoommunication System Engineering, Pearson, 2nd Ediition, 2002.
h) Schiller, Mobile Communicatioons, Pearson Education Asia, 2nd Edition, 2000.
********
BTMT 9th Semester
[Elective –II]
HHuman Computer Interaction
Introduction to HCI methods. Intteeraction styles and general design. Various user interfaces and
interaction strategies. Programminng usable interfaces, software architectures for uuser interface.
Cognitive models, communication and collaboration models, collaborative systems. Screen design.
Task analysis. Usability evaluationn, groupware and coordination technologies, HCI annd World Wide
Web.
Reference Books
a) Alan Dix, Janet Finley, GGregory Abowd, Russell Beale, Human Computeer Interaction,
Pearson, 3rd Edition, 2004..
b) B. Shneiderma., Designingg the User Interface, Addison Wesley (Indian Reepprint), A joint
venture by IIS, 2000.
c) Wickens, Lee, Liu and Gorddon-Becker, Introduction to Human Factors Engineeering, Pearson,
2nd Edition, 2004.
d) Shneiderman, Plaisant, Coohen and Jacobs, Designing the User Interface: Strategies for
Effective Human-Computerr Interaction, Addison Wesley, 5th Edition, 2009.
********
BTMT 9th Semester
[Elective – II]
Operation Research – II
Stochastic Programming
Chance constraint programming tecchniques.
Geometric Programming
Geometric programming (both uncoonstrained and constrained), fuzzy geometric programmming.
70

--- Page 75 ---
Games
Preliminaries concepts of continuoous game, bimatrix games, nash equilibrium, solution of bimatrix
games through quadratic programmming (relation with non-linear programming). Multioobjective linear
and non-linear programming, compplete optimal solution, Pareto and Weak Pareto opptimal solution,
utility function method, global criteerion method, fuzzy programming technique.
Optimal Control
Performance indices, methods off calculus of variation, transversally conditions, ssimple optimal
problems of mechanics, Pontryaggin’s principle (with proof assuming smooth conndition), linear
regulator, application of dynamic prrogramming in proving Pontryagin’s Principle, Bangg-Bang control.
Sequencing
Problem with n jobs two machines, n jobs three machines and n jobs m machines.
Reliability
Concepts, reliability definition, syystem reliability, system failure rate, reliability oof the systems
connected in series or/ and parallel.
Information Theory
Introduction, communication proceesss-memory less channel, the channel matrix, probability relation in
a channel, noiseless channel. Measuure of information, properties of entropy function, mmeasure of other
information quantities, marginal and joint entropies, conditional entropies, exppected mutual
information, axiom for an entroppy function, properties of entropy function. Chaannel capacity,
efficiency and redundancy.
Encoding
Objectives of encoding, Shannon--Fano encoding procedure, necessary and sufficieent condition for
noiseless encoding.
Reference Books
a) A.P. Verma, Introduction to Opperations Research, S.K. Kataria and Sons, 3rd Editioon 2014.
b) A. Taha Hamdy, Operations Reesearch: An Introduction, Pearson Education India, 10th Edition, 2017.
c) P K Gupta, Operations Researcch, S Chand, 5th Edition, 1976.
d) J K Sharma, Operations Researrch, Theory and Applications, Macmillan India Ltd, 1997.
e) D.S Hira and P K Gupta, Operraations Research, S Chand, 2015.
********
71

--- Page 76 ---
BTMT 9th Semester
[Elective – II]
Mathemmatical Modelling and Simulation – II
Some Mathematical Aspects of Osscillations of the Biological Systems
Introduction, biological clock, moddel for the circadian oscillator. Pharmacokinetics. Maathematical models
in pharmacokinetics, compartmmental analysis. Technique. Two compartmennt model-clinical
bromsulphalein (BSP) Test. Basic equations for an n-compartment system. Distributiions of drugs in n-
compartment model for (i) given innitial dose, (ii) repeated medication, (iii) constant raate of infusion and
(iv) truncated infusion. Compartmeent model for diabetes mellitus. Stochastic compartmment models. Drug
action. Some general principles ffoor real biological oscillations. Cellular mechanissm and genesis of
Atherosclerosis.
Arterial Biomechanics
Importance of studies on the mecchanics of blood vessels. Structure and functions of blood vessels.
Mechanical properties. Viscoelastiicity, linear discrete viscoelastic (spring-dashpot) models: Maxwell
fluid, Kelvin solid, Kelvin chainns and Maxwell models. Creep compliance, reelaxation modulus.
Hereditary integrals, Stieltjes Integgrrals. Constituents of blood. Structure and functions of the constituents
of blood. Mechanical properties off blood. Equations of motion applicable to blood floww. Non-Newtonian
fluids-Power law, Bingham plasticc, Herschel-Bulkley and Casson fluids. Steady nonn- Newtonian fluid
flow in a rigid circular tube. Fahrraeus-Lindqvist effect. Pulsatile flow in both rigidd and elastic tubes.
Blood flow through arteries with mmild stenosis. Shear stress on surface of the stenosis.. Two-layered flow
in a tube with mild stenosis. Large ddeformation theory. Various forms of strain energy ffunctions. The base
vectors and metric tensors. Greeenn's deformation and Lagrangian strain tensors. CCylindrical model,
Constitutive equations for blood vesssels. Equations of motion for the vascular wall.
Biological Diffusion and Diffusionn-Reaction Models
Fick’s laws of diffusion, one-dimmensional diffusion model and its solution, some solutions of two-
dimensional diffusion equation, varrious modifications of diffusion equation to diffusioon-reaction models
arising in pharmacokinetics and eecology. Hemodialyser and dialysis of blood, basic equations for a
circular-duct and a parallel-plate ddiialyser, Pecletnumber, sherwood number. Solutionss of basic equation
for a circular-duct dialyser by (i) sseparation of variables method and (ii) Galerki’s meethod. Solution for
parallel-plate dialyser.
Reference Books
a) D. A. MacDonald, Blood FFlow in Arteries, The Williams and Wilkins Compaany, Baltimore, 2nd
Edition, 1974.
b) Y. C. Fung, Biomechanics off Soft Biological Tissues, Springer Verlag, 1stEditionn, 1981.
c) R. Habermann, Mathematiccal models : mechanical vibrations, population dynnamics, and traffic
flow : an introduction to appplied mathematics, Prentice Hall, 1977.
d) R. W. Poole, An Introductionn to Quantitative Ecology, McGraw- Hill, 1974.
e) E. C. Pielou, An Introductionn to Mathematical Ecology, Wiley, New York , 1977..
72

--- Page 77 ---
f) R. Rosen, Foundation of Maatthematical Biology (vol. Iand II), Academic Press, 22013.
g) WFlugge,Viscoelasticity,SSpringer-Verlag,2ndEdition,1975.
h) M. Zamir and E. L. Ritman, The Physics of Pulsatile Flow. Springer, 2012.
i) J. N. Kapur, Mathematical MModels in Biology and Medicine, East West Press Pvvt Ltd ,1985.
********
BTMT 9th Semester
[Elective – III]
Operating System
Introduction
What is an operating system, funnction of operating system, operating system struucture: system
components, operating system serviices, system calls.
Processes
Process concept, process state andd state transitions, process control block, suspend and resume of
process, interrupt processing, contexxt switching.
Process Synchronization and Inteer Process Communication
The critical-section problem, Dekkker’s algorithm, semaphores, synchronization hardwware: test-and-
set, compare-and-swap, solution of producer-consumer problem.
Deadlocks
System model, deadlock characteerrization, methods for handling deadlocks, deadlock prevention,
deadlock avoidance and banker’s allgorithm, deadlock detection, deadlock recovery.
Threads
Single and multithreading models, tthreading issues, P threads, solaris 2 threads, windoww 2000 threads,
linux threads, java threads.
CPU Scheduling
Basic concepts, scheduling levels, scheduling criteria, pre-emptive and non-preemptiive scheduling,
scheduling algorithms, multi-processsor scheduling.
Memory Management
Memory organization, storage hierrarchy, storage management strategies, swapping, ccontiguous and
non contiguous memory allocation,, virtual memory: paging, segmentation, segmentatioon with paging,
notion of locality and working sets, thrashing, page replacement algorithms.
73

--- Page 78 ---
File-System Interface
File concepts, file organization, aaccess methods, directory structure, file-system mounting, file
sharing, protection.
File-System Implementation
File-system structure, file system immplementation, directory implementation, allocation methods, free-
space management, efficiency and pperformance, recovery.
Disk Scheduling
Disk structure, disk caching, diskk scheduling, disk management, swap-space managgement, RAID
structure, disk attachment, stable-stoorage implementation.
Protection
Goals of protection, domain of prrotection, implementation of access matrix, revocaation of access
rights, capability-based systems, lannguage-based protection.
Security
The security problem, user authenntication, program threats, system threats, securingg systems and
facilities, intrusion detection, cryptoography, computer-security classifications.
Reference Books
a) Abraham Silberschatz, Peteer Baer Galvin and Greg Gagne, Operating System CConcepts, John
Wiley and Sons, Inc., 9th Eddition, 2018.
b) H. M. Deitel, Operating Sysstem, Pearson Education, 3rd Edition, 2004.
c) Pramod Chandra P. Bhatt, An Introduction to Operating System Concepts andd Practice, PHI
Pvt Ltd, 2nd revised Edition,, 2007.
********
BTMT 9th Semester
[Elective – III]
Decision Theory and Computational Statistics
Decision Theory
Games and statistical games, Statiistical decision problem, decision function, risk fuunction, prior and
posterior distribution, Baye’s risk and Baye’s rules.
Least favourable prior, minimaxxiity, admissibility and complete classes, admissiibility of Baye’s
rules, existence of minimal complleete class and Baye’s rules.
74

--- Page 79 ---
The supporting and separating hyperplane theorems, essential completeness of the class of
nonrandomized rules, minimax annd complete class theorems.
Solving for minimax rules, essenntial completeness of class of rules based on suffficient statistics,
continuity of risk function, Invariaant decision problems, admissible and minimax innvariant decision
rules.
Computational Statistics
Analysis of variance, one- way annd two – way classification, concept of design of eexperiment, some
standard design: completely randdomized design, randomized block design, latin squares, Graeco
latin squares and factorial design confounding and blocking in factorial design, fraactional factorial
design.
Simple and multiple regression models, classical techniques of time series anaalysis, ANOVA,
MANOVA, multivariate analyysis of covariance model (MANCOVA), smoothing and
decomposition, factor analysis.
Reference Books
a) James O Berger, SStatistical Decision Theory and Bayesian Analyssis, Springer series,
2nd Edition, 2010
b) James O. Berger, Statistical Decision Theory, Foundation, Conccepts and Methods,
Springer series in SStatistics, 1st Edition 1980
c) James E. Gentle and Wolfgang Karl Hardle and Yuichi MMori, Handbook of
computational statiistics: Concepts and methods, Springer, 1st Editioon. 2004.
********
BTMT 9th Semester
[Elective – III]
Stochastic Calculus
Review of Brownian motion and stoochastic integration with respect to Brownian motion, extension of
stochastic integral for a larger class of integrands, stopping times, local martingales.
Stochastic integration with respecctt to right continuous with left limits (RCLL) squuare integrable
martingales, Doob Meyer decompoosition, Ito's formula for martingales, continuous mmartingales, the
representation theorem for martiingales, stochastic differential equations, diffusiion processes,
Girsanov's representation theorem, llocal time, Tanaka's formula, multiple Weiner-Ito inntegrals.
75

--- Page 80 ---
References Books
a) K.L.Chung and R.J.Williamms, Introduction to Stochastic Integration, Birkhäusser; 2nd Edition,
2013.
b) Hui-Hsiung Kuo, Introducttion to Stochastic Integration, Springer; 6th Edition, 2005.
c) N. Ikeda and S. Watanaabe, Stochastic Differential Equations and Diffusiion Processes,
Elsevier, 2nd Edition, 20144.
********
BTMT 9th Semester
[Elective – III]
Mobile Computing
Introduction to Personal Communnications Services (PCS)
PCS architecture, mobility manageemment, networks signaling.
Global System for Mobile Commuunication (GSM) Overview
GSM architecture, mobility managgeement, network signaling.
General Packet Radio Services (GGPRS)
GPRS architecture, GPRS network nodes.
Mobile Data Communication
WLANs (Wireless LANs), IEEE 8002.11 standard, mobile IP, Bluetooth, routing algorithhms for mobile
ad -hoc networks.
Wireless Application Protocol (WWAP)
The mobile internet standard, WAPP gateway and protocols, wireless mark-up languagess (WML).
Third Generation (3G) Mobile Seervices
Introduction to international mobille telecommunications 2000 (IMT 2000) vision, wwideb and code
division multiple access (W-CDMAA), and CDMA 2000, quality of services in 3G.
Wireless Local Loop (WLL)
Introduction to WLL architecture, wireless local loop technologies, global mobile sattellite systems,
case studies of the IRIDIUM and GGLLOBALSTAR systems.
References Books
a) Yi-Bing Lin and Imrich Chhlamtac, Wireless and Mobile Networks Architectuures, Wiley, 1st
Edition, 2008.
76

--- Page 81 ---
b) Raj Pandya, Mobile and PPersonal Communication Systems and Services, Prrentice Hall of
India,2001.
c) U. Hansmann, Lothar MMerk, Martin Nicklous, Thomas Stober, Principlles of Mobile
Computing, Dreamtech Preess, 2nd Edition, 2006.
********
77

--- Page 82 ---
BTMT
COMPUTATIIONAL MATHEMAATICS
th
100 SEMESTER
Semmester – 10th 17– Credits
Option – 1
Dissertation – II 200 0 0 10 10
Grand Viva-II 100 0 0 4 4
Seminar Presentation-III 100 0 0 3 3
Option–2
Industrial Project 200 0 0 0 10
Project Seminar 100 0 0 3 3
Grand Viva-II 100 0 0 4 4
78