
--- Page 1 ---
Technology Development (Td) Project Proposal Format For
Texmin-Mining Cps Coe
1. Project Title:
2. Project Leader's Name and Contact Information:
3. Co-Principal Investigator(s) Name and Contact Information:
4. Principal Implementing Institution(s):
5. Funding Requested:
6. Industry Collaboration Agreement for Product Commercialization (Attach Consent
Letter)
7. Primary Focus Area of the Proposal (please select one or more):
☐Critical and Rare-Earth Minerals (encompassing Exploration to Processing)
☐Green Mining Initiatives
☐4S Mining (Safe, Smart, Sustainable, and Social Mining)
☐Mineral Exploration, Processing, and Beneficiation (including innovative approaches
integrating Cyber-Physical Systems)
☐Circular Economy
☐Other Advanced Technologies relevant to the Mining and Exploration Sector
8. Executive Summary: Provide a detailed overview including Problem Statement,
Research Plan, Purpose, and Significance (500–1000 words).
9. Project Objective (Vision Statement): Please summarize in approximately 200 words.
10. Challenges Addressed by the Proposal:
11. Expected Outcomes and Deliverables:
12. Product Validation/Testing:If applicable, attach Validation/Testing Details.
13. Third-Party Intellectual Property (IP): If IP is owned by an external party, please
upload confirmation of freedom to operate or a No Objection Certificate (NOC).
14. Scope of Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) Technology Development(Please select
applicable scope)
☐ Commercialized Products
Proposal Format Page 1 of 4

--- Page 2 ---
☐Product/Solution Testing and Validation (Field-Scale Testing)
☐Proof of Concept (PoC) – Laboratory-Scale Testing
15. Technology Readiness Level (TRL) Index:
16. Novelty and Relevance of Proposed Solution/Innovation: Describe how it advances
the current state of knowledge in the mining, exploration, or energy sector, and how it
may bridge the gap between national and global capabilities or enhance national
advantage (1000 words).
17. Import Substitution Potential: If applicable, please explain how the solution aids in
import substitution.
18. Methodology Outline: Provide a brief outline of the methodology to achieve each
Objective/Deliverable.
19. Organization of Work Elements&Individual responsibilities of the PI’s
20. Timeline & Milestones: Provide a time schedule and target milestones to achieve each
objective/deliverable, including a bar chart or PERT chart (in months).
21. Available Facilities: Outline facilities available with the Project Proponent (Host
Institute/Startup/Other) to execute the project.
22. Non-Financial Support Required from TEXMiN (e.g., IT Infrastructure, Mentorship,
Marketing).
23. Sustainability Promotion: Explain how the proposed solution promotes sustainability.
24. Regulatory Clearances/Approvals: Specify if regulatory clearances are in place for
project execution.
25. Risk Management: Provide a risk management plan to address potential technical,
financial, or operational risks.
26. Industry Benefits: Describe how the proposed project benefits the industry.
27. Commercialization Plan for the Proposed Solution:
28. Details of experience with existing Intellectual Property (IP), publications, or
proprietary know-how:
29. Detailed Biodata of Investigators.
Publications, Books, Research Papers, and Patents.
Proposal Format Page 2 of 4

--- Page 3 ---
List of Projects Completed (Last 5 Years/Ongoing): Include title, sponsoring
agency, duration, and project outcomes.
30. Proposed Outlay Details (INR Lakhs):Maximum Funding of 15Lakhs only-
Funding Allocation Breakdown
Sl.No. Head Year-wise Outlay (Rs.) Total Outlay (Rs.)
A Capital 1 st Year 2 nd Year Total
A1 Equipment
Totalcapital
B Revenueexpenditure
B1 Salaries/allowance
B2 Travel (TA/DA)
B3 Othercosts
(a)Contingency
(b)Consumables
Total(othercosts)
TotalRevenue
Institute
C Overhead(@10%ofTotalReven
ueExpenditure)
D Total Cost (A+B+C)
E Total Outlay
a. Justification for equipment procurement
b. Justification for Manpower Allocation
c. Justifications for other associated costs
d. Justifications for Travel&Transportation Expenses
31. Any other relevant information(Diagram, Chart & Writeup)
Proposal Format Page 3 of 4

--- Page 4 ---
(The formats are for reference only; official letterhead is recommended)
CERTIFICATE FROM THE PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR
Project Title:
I/We hereby agree to fully comply with the terms and conditions associated with the Grant.
1. I/We confirm that this proposal has not been submitted elsewhere for financial support.
2. I/We have thoroughly ensured that the necessary basic facilities, as outlined in the
proposal, will be made available when required for the execution of the project.
3. I/We undertake not to request financial support for the procurement of items that are
already available at the host institute.
4. I/We acknowledge that the technology developed and/or intellectual property generated
during the project will be owned in accordance with the guidelines set forth by the
Department of Science and Technology (DST) for the Technology Innovation Hub,
TEXMiN at IIT (ISM) Dhanbad.
5. I/We undertake that any equipment purchased, or facilities created under this project
will be the property of the TEXMiN.
6. I/We have enclosed the following Documents as attachments for your reference:
Attachments: Tick Mark (Yes/No)
Soft copy of the project proposal in the form of (Yes/No)
Plagiarism report of the project proposal (Yes/No)
Detail Biodata of PI & Co-PI (Yes/No)
Proposal Format Page 4 of 4

--- Page 5 ---
Any other supporting document (Yes/No)
(Name & Signature)
Principal Investigator
Designation/Position
Institution/Organization Name
Date:
Place:
Proposal Format Page 5 of 4