
--- Page 1 ---
 

Form PPIM-1B
[Para 1.17(ii)]

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA — 799 046, TRIPURA

Limited Tender Enquiry
Department: - CCD

Enquiry No. F. NITA.72/(58-CCD)/CCD/TRANSPORT/2019-20 150 Date: 36 fo cfoo £2.

 

Important Dates
Event | Date | Time |

 

submission of
quotation

ale :
| Quotation Opening 0 1] 0+] 720 4712.30 P.M.
| date

Last Date of | 30/0 0b /202134-90 P.M. |

 

 

 

 

(if possible) |

Dear Sir,

NIT Agartala intends to empanel some Vehicle/Transpcrt Agencies for hiring of vehicle(s}
as per scope of transport services provided in Annexure A and invites quotation in accordance
with the terms and conditions detailed in the bid document. Interested registered Transporters may
take part in the said tendering process and accordingly may quote prices against the transport
services provide in Annexure A within the time mentioned above after fulfilling all the terms and
conditions marked in the bid documents.

_ .
ihe Registrar,
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
| AGARTALA - 799 046, TRIPURA Yours sincerely,
a ed
omer = | :
Registrar = ae

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

Enel ¢
(1) Specifications of Insurance coverage. number of students and discipline etc.
“ (2) Bid document containing detail terms and conditions.

]


--- Page 2 ---
8 (a)

Schedule of requirements

 

 

 

 

SI. Description Duration
| No.
1 Empanelment of Transport Agencies for hiring of vehicles for One (01) year |
NITA for occasionally on call basis / irregular basis for a period
of one year |

 

 

Approximate annual financial involvement for hiring of vehicles annually - Rs. 2.25 lakhs.

The bid envelope should be super-scribed with

 
  
 

  

Bid for Hiring of vehicles for NITA for occasionally on call basis /
irregular basis for a period of one year vide Enquiry No. F. NITA-
:72/(51-CCD)/CCD Transport/2019-20

 
   

Quotations should be valid for a period of 90 days from the opening date of the bid.

Some important dates:

Le Last date for receipt of
quotation: Date: 3.61 ob [202-2 Time: 4.00 P.M
ii, | Opening of bid Date: 01/0/20 1= Time: 12.30 P.M.

(if possible)

Please go through the enclosed “bid document” carefully for other bidding instructions.

Please send your sealed quotations by Registered/Speed Post or Courier (*) Service to:

The Registrar
National Institute of Technology, Agartala

Agartala, Jirania - 799 046

 


--- Page 3 ---
(b) Drop the sealed quotation in the Tender Box kept in the office of the Purchase Section during
the normal working hours (9.00 A.M. to 5.00 P.M.) of the Institute. Please do not hand over
the quotation to any person by hand.

(*) Tenders /Quotations received after the date & time stipulated in the notice are liable for
rejection.

9 . For any query, you may contact

Mr. Himangshu Paul,
Section Officer (Purchase),

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Mob. No. 9436453020

 

Yours sincerely,

TeBhoalky{e,

, ADD 4
Registrar all eis 2
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

AGARTALA — 799 046, TRIPURA


--- Page 4 ---
Form PPIM-1B (Contd.)
[Para 1.17(ii)]

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA — 799 046, TRIPURA

BID DOCUMENT

Instructions to the bidders

1.1

1.2

1.3

1.4

jee

1.6

1.7

1.8

1.9

1.10

Sealed bids are invited on behalf of National Institute of Technology (NIT), Agartala
— 799 046, Tripura from the intending Vehicle / Transport Agencies registered
under Government of Tripura for empanelment for hiring of vehicles for use of
NITA.

NITA will hire vehicle(s) occasionally as an when required on call basis / irregular
basis from the empanelled Vehicle / Transport Agencies.

Vehicle / Transport Agencies may be empanelled initially for 1(one) year which may
be extended yearly basis for next consecutive two years subject to requirement and
performance of the Agencies.

Hiring charges of the vehicle(s) to be engaged shall be as per rate prescribed by
Government of Tripura from time to time.

The interested Vehicle / Transport Agencies registered under Government of
Tripura are requested to submit their quotation with the documents and terms &
conditions mentioned below

The bidder should have registered office in Agartala having all the facilities required
for running an office such as Land line/ Telephone Number/ Fax/ Mobile and valid
e-mail Id.

Bidder should have valid Registration/License for travel agency under Government
of Tripura.

Bidder should have valid Permanent Account Number (PAN) under Income Tax
Department.

Bidder should have valid GST registration.

Hiring Car/vehicles should not be more than 03 (three) years old from its
manufacturing.

The vehicle Registration Book, Insurance Copy, Emission Certificate, Road Tax
payment certificate, Commercial Vehicle permit and Driver license should be
available with the vehicle at all times.

4


--- Page 5 ---
1.12

1.14

1.15

1.16

1.17

1.18

1.19

 

 

Fitness certificate, in respect of the hired car/vehicles, issued, within three months,
by the Agency authorized by government.

Insurance coverage for all parties including third party against the hired car/vehicles.
The hired car/vehicle should be looking smart and shiny.

Police verification certificate as to whether the vehicle is not involved in any
criminal offence.

Valid driving license of the Driver of the car/vehicle provided by the agency at the
time of service.

Qualification of the driver of the vehicle should be minimum 10(ten) class pass.

Bidder should submit character certificate of the driver issued by Government
Agency.

The driver of the vehicle under contract/requisition must share his live location with
the CCD while plying the vehicles under this contract or tender.

Bhat
Registrar
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA
AGARTALA — 799 046, TRIPURA

24
294-05-+22_


--- Page 6 ---
 

Conditions of the bid

2.1

Luke

2.3

2.4

2.3

2.6

2.7

2.8

2.9

2.10

2.11

212

The bid should remain valid for a period of 90 days from the date of opening of bid.

The bidder has to furnish up to date GST and Income Tax return of last financial
year along with valid trade license along with the bid.

The bidders should quote their rates in clear terms without ambiguity. The
quotation should be only in Indian Rupees.

If any bidder is willing to quote rate for hiring of vehicle(s) less than the prescribed
rate of Government of Tripura, in that case the bidder(s) should quote their rates in
clear terms without ambiguity.

The price quoted by the bidder should be INCLUSIVE of all taxes including
GST and all other statutory obligations including any fee to be paid to the Civic
Authorities. Breakup of basic rate, statutory taxes & duties etc. shall be
mentioned while submitting of bid.

The rates should be quoted both in figures and words and legibly written without any
over-writings against the appropriate column mentioned in Annexure — A meant for
Hiring of vehicles. In case of any correction, the same must be attested by the bidder
with full signature. However, no over-writing is permissible.

In case of any discrepancy between the rates in figures and that in words, the rate in
words will be accepted as correct.

Conditional discount, if any, offered by the bidder shall not be considered at the
time of evaluation.

The last date for receipt of the bid is marked in the enquiry. In case the above date is
declared a holiday for NIT, Agartala, and the bids will be received up to the
appointed time on the next working day.

The bid may be sent by registered or speed post or by courier service, so as to reach
the Purchase Section before the last date of receipt, or alternatively, be dropped in
the tender box kept in the office of the Purchase Section of NITA during the normal
working hours (10:00 A.M. to 4.00 P.M.) of the Institute. NIT Agartala will not be
responsible any Postal or Courier delay.

Bids received after the deadline of receipt indicated in the “Top of the Tender
Document’, shall not be taken into consideration.

Each bidder shall submit only one bid. A bidder, who submits more than one bid,
shall be disqualified and considered non-responsive.


--- Page 7 ---
7.13

2.14

2.16

2nd

2.18

2.19

2.20

2.21

2.22

2nd

2.24

 

The bids will be opened in the Purchase Section of NITA at the date and time given
on the top of the document. The bidders may send their authorized representatives
to attend the bid opening, if they so desire. In the event of the above bid opening
date being declared holiday for the NIT Agartala, the bids will be opened at the
appointed time and place on the next working day.

The bidder has to sign in full at all pages of the bidding document.

The Vehicle/Transport Agency shall bear the cost of fuel, salaries of his driver,
repair and maintenance, road tax insurance, commercial permit etc. of the vehicles
provided and shall also maintain the vehicles in good working condition for
24x7x365 days.

The driver shall keep documents such as vehicle Registration Book, Pollution Check
Certificate, etc. of the vehicle with him all the time. In case any penalty for any
violation of rules / law, only the firm/diver shall be solely responsible for the same.

Log book shall be maintained and usages details therein shall be certified by an
authorized officer/official on daily basis.

The start and end points of the journey as per the Institute requirement as instructed
by the concerned official of the Institute from time to time. Accordingly the KM
should be counted and log book should be maintained.

The bidder should strictly comply the guidelines of Govt. of India and Govt. of
Tripura issued from time to time in respect of covid-19 Pandemic.

National Institute of Technology, Agartala is following and abide by the Public
Procurement (Preference to Make in India), Order 2017, DIPP, MoCI Order No. P-
45021/2/2017-B.E.II dated 15th June 2017 and subsequent amendments to the order.
Accordingly preference will be given, if applicable, to the Make in India products
while evaluating the bids, however, it is the sole responsibility of the bidder(s) to
specify the product quoted by them is of Make in India product along with respective
documentary evidence as stipulated in the aforesaid order in the technical bid itself.

The successful bidder may be required to execute a contract, where applicable.

NIT Agartala will reject a proposal if it determines that the Vehicle/Transport
Agencies recommended for empanelment has, directly or through an agent, engaged
in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices in competing for the Contract
in question.

In the event of any dispute arising out of the bid or from the resultant contract, the
decision of the Director, NIT Agartala shall be final.

Payment: 100% will be made in INR (Indian National Rupees) against the
certification of user Department/End-user.


--- Page 8 ---
2.25

2.26

Note: All payments due under the contract shall be paid after deduction of statutory
levies at source (like ESIC, IT (TDS), GST, LBT / Octroi etc.), wherever applicable.

All disputes/ Arbitration: All disputes should be attempted to resolve mutually
between the NIT Agartala and the supplier through discussion and arbitration. The
Arbitrator shall be appointed by the Director, NIT Agartala. Failing which, all
disputes shall be under the jurisdiction of Courts at Agartala only.

Competent Authority of National Institute of Technology, Agartala reserves the
right to cancel the tendering process at any stage of the procurement process
without mentioning any reason.

cee =
; F-05-22_
Registrar

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, AGARTALA
AGARTALA — 799 046, TRIPURA


--- Page 9 ---
3. Special Terms & Conditions:

3.1

aud

oo

3.4

3.5

3.6

aut

Acceptance of bid strictly depends on NIT’s requirements, scope of hiring of
vehicles and also as per terms & conditions etc. of the tender document.

The Contractor shall provide a car (Air Conditioned) with commercial permit & with
driver on call basis to this office. The vehicles provided should fulfill all the
conditions for running in Tripura state. The contractor has to ensure that the staff
deployed by them is well-dressed in neat uniform and is punctual in his work and has
a mobile phone. The staff deputed for work should not have any kind of criminal or
adverse record and they should be well-behaved. The Institute it’s rights to monitor,
make surprise checks & verification on all aspect of the work and the service
provider shall co-operated with the officials so authorized by the Institute and furnish
to them all records and materials for inspection without demur. The contractor
should arrange for proper cleanliness and hygiene of the vehicle including inter alia
the provisioning of car perfume, tissue paper, hand towels etc. in the vehicle. The
model of the vehicles provided shall not be more than 3 (three) years old from its
manufacturing

If Vehicle/Transport Agencies have their own scheme for hiring of vehicles, if any,
may be mentioned while quoting the rates. Such scheme should be in consistent
with the terms and conditions specified in the bid document.

The bid should be sealed by the bidder duly super-scribed on the envelope “Bid for
Hiring of vehicles for NITA vide Enquiry No. F. NITA-.72/(51-CCD)/CCD
Transport/2019-20”. The bids shall be opened and evaluated by the competent
committee / authority for recommendation of awarding engagement.

Bidders are required to upload a declaration on letter head stating that the bidder has
not been black-listed by any Ministry/Department/Organization.

Bidders are requested to provide valid e-mail ID and phone number for further
communication.

Bank A/C in the Exact Name of Bidder/Firm/Supplier with Name, A/C No., IFSC
code must be furnished with technical bid.

SPE 39 65.22,
Registrar

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
AGARTALA — 799 046, TRIPURA


--- Page 10 ---
ANNEXURE — A

ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENT FOR HIRING OF VEHICLES

  
    
 

. Hiring cost per KM rate (with GST)
Detention (Rs.)

Colour of | Charge (@ Day)
Vehicle Rs. Petrol Diesel CNG

  

   

SI.
no

Type of

vehicle Brand of

vehicle

 

      
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10.
11.
12.

 

ire
Registrar ~27-6S- 7 @_

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
AGARTALA — 799 046, TRIPUR


--- Page 11 ---
ANNEXURE -B
Bid Securing Declaration Form

DACs aiais iiteseeaaseateemegers es Tender Ref. No: ...............0.:0e 00
To (insert complete name and address of the purchaser)
I/We. The undersigned, declare that:

I/We understand that, according to your conditions, bids must be supported by a Bid Securing
Declaration.

I/We accept that I/We may be disqualified from bidding for any contract with you for a period of
one year from the date of notification if I am /We are in a breach of any obligation under the bid

conditions, because I/We

a) have withdrawn/modified/amended, impairs or derogates from the tender, my/our Bid during the
period of bid validity specified in the form of Bid: or

b) having been notified of the acceptance of our Bid by the purchaser during the period of bid
validity (i) fail or reuse to execute the contract, if required, or (ii) fail or refuse to furnish the
Performance Security, in accordance with the Instructions to Bidders.

I/We understand this Bid Securing Declaration shall cease to be valid if I am/we are not the
successful Bidder, upon the earlier of (i) the receipt of your notification of the name of the
successful Bidder; or (ii) thirty days after the expiration of the validity of my/our Bid.

Signed: (insert signature of person whose name and capacity are shown)

in the capacity of (insert legal capacity of person signing the Bid Securing Declaration)
Name: (insert complete name of person signing he Bid Securing Declaration)

Duly authorized to sign the bid for an on behalf of (insert complete name of Bidder)

Dated on day of (insert date of signing)

Corporate Seal (where appropriate)

(Note: In case of a Joint Venture, the Bid Securing Declaration must be in the name of all partners
to the Joint Venture that submits the bid)
