
--- Page 1 ---
Department of
NIT Agartala Science & Technology
One Week Training Program on
“DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality”
22nd — 28th March, 2023
Organized by
Department of Mathematics, NIT Agartala
Under
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT NIT AGARTALA, SYNERGISTIC TRAINING PROGRAM UTILIZING THE SCIENTIFIC &
TECHNOLOGICAL INFRASTRUCTURE (STUTI)
An initiative of Department of Science and Technology (DST), Govt. of India
About The Program
The Department of Science and Technology (DST) intended to build human resources and knowledge capacity by arranging
training programs thorough open access science and technology infrastructure across the country under the banner of “Synergistic
Training Program Utilizing the Scientific & Technological Infrastructure (STUTI)’. Each training session will be for seven (7) days
and the participants from outside the host institute will be accommodated. All the training expenditures such as, travel by train
(Sleeper Class)/bus, food and accommodation, training materials will be borne by Project Management Unit NIT Agartala (PMU-
NITA). The present proposed program will be organized by the Department of Mathematics, NIT Agartala. Participants will go
through hands-on training followed by the practical implementation of the proposed topics of 7 days training program on
“DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality”. The training program will be arranged from 22nd - 28th March, 2023.
Eligibility Criteria
Person of Indian origin with minimum qualification of Post Graduate (Science) or B. Tech (Technology), Professors/Scientist/Post-Doc
Fellows/PhD. Fellows/Industry who are actively involved in Research and Development (R&D) can apply.
About the Mathematics Department
National Institute of Technology Agartala, erstwhile Tripura Engineering College (established in 1965), the 20th member of the NIT
fraternity, was established in 2006 to impart quality technical education into various level of higher learning. It is a centrally funded
technical institution with Deemed to be University status and is a National Centre of Excellence. At present the institute has 13 departments
covering all the major engineering, science and humanities disciplines offering B. Tech, BS-MS, BT-MT, M-Tech, MCA, M. Sc, MBA and
PhD programs in various fields of specialization. The mission of the Institute is “To help to improve the economic development of the
country particularly the North-East states and also the public systems, through pursuit of excellence in technical education, research,
consultancy and training”.
Organizing Committee
Prof. H. K. Sharma Director, Chief Patron Dr. B Bhattacharya Asso. Prof., Math, Coordinator
NIT Agartala NIT Agartala
Prof. A. K. Das Dean R & C, Chairperson Dr. Jayasree Chakraborty Asst. Prof., Math, Co-Coordinator
NIT Agartala NIT Agartala
Dr. U. K. Bera Asso. Prof., Math, Co-Chairperson Dr. Abhijit Baidya Asst. Prof., Math, Co-Coordinator
NIT Agartala NIT Agartala
Dr. P. Bhattacharya Asso. Prof., Math, Co-Chairperson Dr. Sudipa Choudhury Teaching Assistant, Co-Coordinator
NIT Agartala Math, NIT Agartala
For registration please fill-up Google form; link: - https://forms.gle/nSw15Lzfmizm1Zc29
Registration Open on 14/03/2023 and Close on 19/03/2023
Only Women participants are allowed. Please visit NIT Agartala web site for regular update.
Contact Persons
Dr. Baby Bhattacharya Dr. Jayasree Chakraborty Dr. Abhijit Baidya Dr. Sudipa Choudhury
Coordinator Co-coordinator Co-coordinator Co-coordinator
Email:babybhatt75@gmail.com Email: chakrabortyjayasree1@gmail.com Email: abhijitnita@yahoo.in Email: sudipachoudhury032@gmail.com
Tel: 8837244821 Tel: 9774447925 Tel: 8837204231 Tel: 9436937105