
--- Page 1 ---
{r{fqffidtumffi
National Institute of Technology Agaftala
OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC
n itadea nacademic@ gmail.com
N " o 'l- .r. NitA.s(6-ACAD)A/IS/Ph.Dl20r9-20/A -t 773 Dated t 1 1t017023
I{OTIFICATIOI{
Sub:- Admission in full-time Ph.D Programme under Visvesvaraya Ph.D scheme of the
Electronics Systeh Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) and IT / IT Enabled
Services (ITES) at NIT Agartala for July-December 2023, academic session.
Applications are invited from the eligible candidates for admission in full-time Ph.D
Programme under Visvesvaraya Ph.D scheme of the Ministry of Communication and IT for
July-December 2023 academic session in the Electronics System Design and Manufacturing
(ESDM) and IT / IT Enabled Services (ITES) at NIT Agattala.
Minimum Oualification for admission in Ph,D nrogramme under Visvesvaraya
Ph.D scheme:-
Candidates for admission in Ph.D programme under Visvesvaraya Ph.D scheme
must satisfy any of the following criteria:-
I. Master's Degree in Engineering/ Technology in Electronics & Communication
Engineering / Mechanical Engineering with a minimum CGPA of 6.5 out of 10 or
equivalent (60% of marks)
il. Bachelor's Degree in Engineering/ Technology in Electronics & Communication
Engineering / Mechanical Engineering with an excellent academic record and with a
CGPA of at least 9.0 out of 10 or equivalent (85% of marks) Candidates must have valid
GATE score.
***
Conversion of CGPA to percentage and vice-versa will not be allowed.
Instructions fo r Applicants(for online application)
A11 applicants must apply online https:l ladmission.nita.ac.Ln/
o The portal is compatible to Mozilla Firefox. Candidates are advised to use Mozilla Firefox
browser only. '
After registration, Application ID (to be used as login name) with Password will be sent to
the email ID provided by the applicant.
Using the login credential, applicants must login to the Admission Portal for form filling.
Application fees must be paid online only in the payment portal through the above
mentioned link.
Candidates must wait for the payment confirmation message. If not received,
email to nitm$agt@email.com.
Barj al a, Aga rta la-7 99A 46, In d ia. w e bsi te- wlv]Y. {r [fl.fl-g'i F

--- Page 2 ---
{qhffidtqF{ffi
National Institute of Technology Agartala
OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC
nitadeanacademic@gmail.com
o
After completion and submission of the online form, filled in form in PDF format will
be generated.
e
On the day of written test and/or interview, the provisionally shortlisted candidates should
bring. a printed copy of the on-line filled-in form along with all the original of the
necessary documents (to support all educational qualification, date of birth, category) and
a set of photocopy of all such documents, duly self-attested.
Documents to be uploaded {Scanned Original) in respective fields in portal:
@ocuments having multiple pages are to be scanned into a single pdf and then upload)
1.
Proof of date of birth.
2.
Photo id proof, as per guidelines of GoI.
3.
Mark sheet(s) of all semesters of Bachelor's degree.
4.
Marksheets of all semesters of Master's Degree.
5.
Pass Certificate of Master's Degree.
6.
GATE/ NET etc. score card (if and whichever applicable).
7.
Migration Certificate issued by the Institution last attended.
8.
ConducVCharacter Certificate issued by the Institution last attended.
g.
Recent colour photograph as per specifications (strictly formal photograph, preferably
white/sky blue background)
10. SC/STPwD/OBC-NCL/EWS certificate (if and whichever applicable).
The OBC-NCL/ EWS certificate must be issued by Competent Authority on or
after 0110412023. Admission under PwD category will be based on the
recommendation of Medical Board of NIT Agartala.
lmportant Note:
Migration Certificate and Conduct/ Character Certificate are mandatory during
provisional admission.
Candidal should apply for the programme through online mode only. Requisite non-
refundable application fee to the extent of Rs. 500/- for OP/OBC-NCL/EWS candidates
and Rs. 300/- for SC/ST/PwD candidates has to be submitted online payment portal only.
Offline hand written, or printed application will not be entertained.
Candidates must wait for the payment confirmation message. If not received, may
email to nitmisagt@.smail.com.
r Incomplete application will be summarily rejected. Applications may be rejected if
the requisite documents (clearly visible) as mentioned above is not uploaded.
NIT Asartala will not be responsible for anv failure on the part of the candidates in
I
making pavment of anplication fee online or any other reasons.
Barjala, Agartal a-799046, India. website- www.nita.ac.iU

--- Page 3 ---
{rElqffi*€rHffi
National Institute of Technology Agartala
OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC
ni tadeanacademic@gmail.com
Selection Procedure:-
The candidates fulfilling the eligibility conditions will be short-listed and the list will be
published in the institute website. Selection will be made on the basis of performance of the
candidatss in the interview and/ or written test and availability of seats. The short-listed
candidates should appear for interview andl or written test on the appointed day with all original
documents.
Scholarship Facilitv: -
The candidates who will be selected for admission under the scheme in Ph.D programme
as full-time scholars wilt be entitled for scholarship @ Rs. 38,7501- Wr month in l't & 2"d year
and @Rs. 43,7501- pp, month in 3'd to 5th as per nonns of the scheme.
Important Dates
Starting of application
021rU2023 Last date for submission of application
0611,U2023 Publication of short listed candidates (evening)
091rT12023 Written test I Interview
Publication of list of selected candidates (evenin
1411,U2023 Phvsical admission
fr
Sw haumik)
Dean (Academic Affairs)
Copy to
1) PS to the Director, for kind information of the Director.
z) Registrar NIT Agartala for kind information.
3) HoD ECE for kind information necessary action.
4) FIC MIS, for information and necessary action.
s) System administrator, for information and necessary action.
I
D n (Ac IC ffairs)
't
i
I
I
I
I Barj4ln, Agarta la-1gg0f46,India. website- www.nita.ac.in
I
I
I
h--