
--- Page 1 ---
SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING RESEARCH BOARD CHIEF PATRON
Prof. S.K. Patra
Training and Skill Internship (“VRITIKA”)
Director, NIT Agartala
On
Identification of Type 2 Diabetes Biomarkers from Single cell PATRON
Prof. Mrinal Kanti Debbarma Training and Skill Internship (“VRITIKA”)
sequencing Data with Machine learning/Deep Learning
(duration: 2nd August– 31st August 2024) HoD, Department of Computer Science & Engg (Duration: 2nd August –31st August, 2024)
on
Target Participants COORDINATOR
Identification of Type 2 Diabetes Biomarkers from
Dr. Ranjita Das
The proposed Training and Skill Internship is designed and Single cell sequencing Data with Machine
intended for PhD, PG research scholars, and 4th year UG Assistant Professor learning/Deep Learning
NIT Agartala
students working/studying in the area of Sponsored by
CSE/IT/Biotechnology/ Electronics Engineering/other Science and Engineering Research Board
relevant specialization. Maximum number of participants ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE Under Accelerate Vigyan Scheme
for this program is limited to 5 only. Dr. Ranjita Das (A Government of India Initiative)
Selection Process:
Department of Computer Science &
Engineering
The selection of the eligible students/interns for Training
NIT Agartala, Tripura
and Skill Internship will be done based on the
Email: ranjita.nitm@gmail.com
recommendations of the Selection Committee constituted
Contact No.: 8787779140
for this purpose by the host institution. The screening will
be primarily base on
REGISTRATION
 Academic performance in university examinations
(CGPA/Percentage of marks). Application Procedure:
 Academic/co-curricular contests participated, and Please fill up the registration form:
other awards/distinctions obtained.
https://forms.gle/wfBTiRA3QQgTMNs67
Registration Fee and other Facilities:
 Training registration fee is NIL Registration Through QR Code
 TA/DA will be provided to the participants as per SERB
norms. ORGANIZED BY
 Food and accommodation will be provided to all the
Department of Computer Science
participants free of costs.
Engineering National Institute of
 The registrations are limited to 5 participants.
Technology, Agartala,
Important Dates: Tripura-799046
 Last date of receipt of application: 31st July. 2024. www.nita.ac.in
 Notification about selection: by email

--- Page 2 ---
About the Department How to Reach NIT Agartala
About the Institution
The Department of Computer Science and
Established in 1965 as Tripura Engineering College. Engineering of National Institute of The Institute is 4 km away from Jirania on
Later, the Government of India converted the Tripura Technology Agartala offers an undergraduate Assam-Agartala Highway (NH-44) and about
Engineering College to National Institute of Technology 20 km away from Agartala city. Agartala is
and postgraduate programme in Computer
Agartala on 1st April 2006. NIT Agartala is an Institute well connected by Rail Road and Air. Pre-Paid
Science and Engineering where students are
of National Importance was instituted by Government of Taxi and auto services are available from
encouraged to acquire knowledge facilities
India with the mission to herald excellence in technical Agartala Airport to the Institute.
with an integrated thinking about education
education and research in the North-East region. NIT
research & development, application and
Agartala offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral Objectives of the Program
training. The students are provided knowledge
programs in various fields of engineering, science,
The primary objectives of the internship
to understand the fundamental of basic
humanities, and management. The institute is renowned
 Understand the common workflow of a
sciences and humanities, inter disciplinary
for its academic excellence, research initiatives, and
single cell experiment.
knowledge, innovation, creative problem
industry collaborations. NIT Agartala boasts state-of-the-
 Build a foundation for exploring the
art infrastructure, well-equipped laboratories, and a solving abilities, intellectual honest and
single cell literature.
conducive learning environment. professional ethics, capacity for team work in
 Be able to apply Machine learning/Deep
inter disciplinary, national and international
Vision learning methods for analysis of single
environment. The first undergraduate batch
Institute is committed to develop highly competent young cell data specific to Diabetes Biomarkers.
rolled out in the year 2003. Since its inception
Engineers, Scientists, and Management Professionals to cater  Grasp the impact of method choice and
to the ever-increasing techno-managerial needs of national and in 1999, the department has always been parameter selection on analysis.
recognized for excellence.
international standards fulfilling professional ethics and
Nature of Support
societal commitment. The department is actively involved in
research and also running Ph.D. programs.
 The interns will be given for meeting daily
Mision
The research activity of the department
To produce techno-managerial human resource in line with necessary expenses such as stationery,
includes fundamental research, sponsored
global need offering state-of-the-art facility, research and and consultancy projects. consumables, accommodation, food, etc.,
training in engineering and allied disciplines. as per the norms of the funding agency.
 No STIPEND will be provided for the
internship.
 The interns will be eligible for Travelling
Allowance (TA) reimbursement for their
journey to the host institute from their
hometown/home institute, both ways, as
per GOI norms. (Shortest route in
Economic Sleeper Train/Bus Fare.
 Certificate will be provided on successful
Completion of this training and internship.