
--- Page 1 ---
SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING RESEARCH BOARD CHIEF PATRON
Prof. S.K. Patra
Training and Skill Internship (“VRITIKA”)
Director, NIT Agartala
On
Implications of Electric Vehicles on Power System PATRON
Network (Duration: 1st July –30th July, 2024) Prof. Arvind Kumar Training and Skill Internship (“VRITIKA”)
Jain (Duration: 1st July –30th July, 2024)
HoD, Department of Electrical Engineering
Target Participants
on
The proposed Training and Skill Internship is designed and Implications of Electric Vehicles on Power System
intended for PhD, PG research scholars, and 4th year UG COORDINATOR Network
Prof (Dr). Priyanath Das
students working/studying in the area of Electrical Sponsored by
Engineering/Electrical and Electronics Engineering/other NIT Agartala
Science and Engineering Research Board
relevant specialization. Maximum number of participants
Under Accelerate Vigyan Scheme
for this program is limited to 5 only.
ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE
(A Government of India Initiative)
Selection Process: Prof (Dr). Priyanath
The selection of the eligible students/interns for Training Das
and Skill Internship will be done based on the Department of Electrical Engineering
recommendations of the Selection Committee constituted NIT Agartala, Tripura
for this purpose by the host institution. The screening will Email: priyanath70@gmail.com
be primarily base on Contact No.: 9436541700
 Academic performance in university examinations
(CGPA/Percentage of marks). REGISTRATION
 Academic/co-curricular contests participated, and
Application Procedure:
other awards/distinctions obtained.
Please fill up the registration form:
Registration Fee and other Facilities:
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSciO
 Training registration fee is NIL PtM4f4Ukm4TPcEbIiDIDhXzItHBUHeBPuv4wE
 TA/DA will be provided to the participants as per SERB 1eQDNPuQ/viewform?usp=sf_link
ORGANIZED BY
norms.
 Food and accommodation will be provided to all the Department of Electrical Engineering
participants free of costs. National Institute of Technology, Agartala,
 The registrations are limited to 5 participants. Tripura-799046
Important Dates:
www.nita.ac.in
 Last date of receipt of application: 28th June. 2024.
 Notification about selection: by email

--- Page 2 ---
About the Department How to Reach NIT Agartala
About the Institution
Established in 1965 as Tripura Engineering College. The Department of Electrical Engineering The Institute is 4 km away from Jirania on
Later, the Government of India converted the Tripura is established in 1965 under the aegis of Assam-Agartala Highway (NH-44) and about
Engineering College to National Institute of Technology Tripura Engineering College (TEC), a 20 km away from Agartala city. Agartala is
Agartala on 1st April 2006. NIT Agartala is an Institute state engineering college of Tripura, well connected by Rail Road and Air. Pre-Paid
of National Importance was instituted by Government of which is upgraded as National Institute of Taxi and auto services are available from
India with the mission to herald excellence in technical Technology on 1st April 2006. The Agartala Airport to the Institute.
education and research in the North-East region. NIT
department offers a four years B.Tech.
Agartala offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral program in “Electrical Engineering” with Objectives of the Program
intake capacity of 90. The department
programs in various fields of engineering, science,
The primary objectives of the internship
offers 2 years M.Tech. programs in four
humanities, and management. The institute is renowned
for its academic excellence, research initiatives, and specializations namely Power System  To provide participants with comprehensive
industry collaborations. NIT Agartala boasts state-of-the- Engineering, Power Electronics & Drives, knowledge of the fundamental technology,
Instrumentation engineering, and
art infrastructure, well-equipped laboratories, and a benefits, and potential of electric vehicle.
Integrated Energy Systems.
conducive learning environment.  To equip participants with practical knowledge
and skill related to the power flow and energy
Vision The department is actively involved in
management in power system.
Institute is committed to develop highly competent young research and also running Ph.D. programs
 Charging Strategies development for EV
Engineers, Scientists, and Management Professionals to cater in all fields of electrical engineering. The
Application.
to the ever-increasing techno-managerial needs of national and research interests of the faculty members
 Algorithm for Energy flow Management.
international standards fulfilling professional ethics and include a wide range of sub-disciplines of
 To encourage and guide students to write a
societal commitment. Electrical Engineering. The research
research paper on the given topic.
activity of the department includes
Mision
fundamental research, sponsored and Nature of Support
To produce techno-managerial human resource in line with
consultancy projects, and is carried out
global need offering state-of-the-art facility, research and
with the active participation of the  The interns will be given for meeting daily
training in engineering and allied disciplines.
students, faculty, and research staff.
necessary expenses such as stationery,
consumables, accommodation, food, etc.,
as per the norms of the funding agency.
 No STIPEND will be provided for the
internship.
 The interns will be eligible for Travelling
Allowance (TA) reimbursement for their
journey to the host institute from their
hometown/home institute, both ways, as
per GOI norms. (Shortest route in
Economic Sleeper Train/Bus Fare.
 Certificate will be provided on successful
completion of this training and internship.