
--- Page 1 ---
SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING RESEARCH BOARD CHIEF PATRON
Prof. S.K. Patra
Training and Skill Internship (“VRITIKA”)
Director, NIT Agartala
On
Development of Energy Storage Management System PATRON
(Duration: 1st July –30th July, 2024) Prof. Arvind Kumar Training and Skill Internship (“VRITIKA”)
Jain (Duration: 1st July –30th July, 2024)
HoD, Department of Electrical Engineering
Target Participants
on
The proposed Training and Skill Internship is designed and
Development of Energy Storage Management
intended for PhD, PG research scholars, and 4th year UG COORDINATOR
System
Dr. Sadhan Gope
students working/studying in the area of Electrical
Engineering/Electrical and Electronics Engineering/other Assistant Professor, NIT Agartala
Sponsored by
relevant specialization. Maximum number of participants
for this program is limited to 5 only. Science and Engineering Research Board
ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE
Under Accelerate Vigyan Scheme
Selection Process: Dr. Sadhan Gope
(A Government of India Initiative)
The selection of the eligible students/interns for Training Assistant Professor,
and Skill Internship will be done based on the Department of Electrical Engineering
recommendations of the Selection Committee constituted NIT Agartala, Tripura
for this purpose by the host institution. The screening will Email: sadhangope.ee@nita.ac.in
be primarily base on Contact No.: 9862670880
 Academic performance in university examinations
(CGPA/Percentage of marks). REGISTRATION
 Academic/co-curricular contests participated, and
Application Procedure:
other awards/distinctions obtained.
Please fill up the registration form:
Registration Fee and other Facilities:
https://forms.gle/W8UG45AMya6FmLw37
 Training registration fee is NIL
 TA/DA will be provided to the participants as per SERB
norms.
 Food and accommodation will be provided to all the ORGANIZED BY
participants free of costs.
Department of Electrical Engineering
 The registrations are limited to 5 participants.
National Institute of Technology, Agartala,
Important Dates: Tripura-799046
 Last date of receipt of application: 28th June. 2024. www.nita.ac.in
 Notification about selection: by email

--- Page 2 ---
About the Department How to Reach NIT Agartala
About the Institution
Established in 1965 as Tripura Engineering College. The Department of Electrical Engineering The Institute is 4 km away from Jirania on
Later, the Government of India converted the Tripura is established in 1965 under the aegis of Assam-Agartala Highway (NH-44) and about
Engineering College to National Institute of Technology Tripura Engineering College (TEC), a 20 km away from Agartala city. Agartala is
Agartala on 1st April 2006. NIT Agartala is an Institute state engineering college of Tripura, well connected by Rail Road and Air. Pre-Paid
of National Importance was instituted by Government of which is upgraded as National Institute of Taxi and auto services are available from
India with the mission to herald excellence in technical Technology on 1st April 2006. The Agartala Airport to the Institute.
education and research in the North-East region. NIT department offers a four years B.Tech.
Agartala offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral program in “Electrical Engineering” with Objectives of the Program
intake capacity of 90. The department
programs in various fields of engineering, science,
The primary objectives of the internship
offers 2 years M.Tech. programs in four
humanities, and management. The institute is renowned
for its academic excellence, research initiatives, and specializations namely Power System  Modelling of Energy Storage Systems
industry collaborations. NIT Agartala boasts state-of-the- Engineering, Power Electronics & Drives,  Thermal Energy Management Strategy.
Instrumentation engineering, and
art infrastructure, well-equipped laboratories, and a  Charging Strategies development for EV
Integrated Energy Systems.
conducive learning environment. Application.
 Algorithm for Energy flow Management.
Vision The department is actively involved in
 Cost Benefit Analysis
Institute is committed to develop highly competent young research and also running Ph.D. programs
Engineers, Scientists, and Management Professionals to cater in all fields of electrical engineering. The Nature of Support
to the ever-increasing techno-managerial needs of national and research interests of the faculty members
international standards fulfilling professional ethics and include a wide range of sub-disciplines of  The interns will be given for meeting daily
societal commitment. Electrical Engineering. The research necessary expenses such as stationery,
activity of the department includes consumables, accommodation, food, etc.,
Mision
fundamental research, sponsored and
To produce techno-managerial human resource in line with as per the norms of the funding agency.
consultancy projects, and is carried out
global need offering state-of-the-art facility, research and  No STIPEND will be provided for the
with the active participation of the
training in engineering and allied disciplines. internship.
students, faculty, and research staff.
 The interns will be eligible for Travelling
Allowance (TA) reimbursement for their
journey to the host institute from their
hometown/home institute, both ways, as
per GOI norms. (Shortest route in
Economic Sleeper Train/Bus Fare.
 Certificate will be provided on successful
completion of this training and internship.