
--- Page 1 ---
Accelerate Vigyan - VRITIKA
Call for Training and Skill Internship Positions
on
Toxicity Analysis of Degraded Metabolites of Textile Azo
Dyes by Zebra Fish Model: In-Silico & In-Vivo Approach
Organized by: Department of Bioengineering, NIT Agartala, Tripura, India.
Research Internship Duration: Last Date for Application:
June to July, 2023 May 19, 2023
Number of Positions: 4 Physical Mode
SPONSORED By
For Details Contact:
Dr V C Padmanaban,
Assistant Professor, Dept. of Bioengineering,
National Institute of Technology, Agartala, Tripura.
Email: padmanaban@nita.ac.in Phone: +91-9894800751

--- Page 2 ---
Call for Research Internship Positions
(Accelerate Vigyan - VRITIKA)"
on
Toxicity Analysis of Degraded Metabolites of Textile Azo Dyes by Zebra Fish
Model: In-Silico & In-Vivo Approach
Accelerate Vigyan - VRITIKA
ABOUT INSTITUTE
The National Institute of Technology Agartala was constituted by the Govt. of India
in 2006 to create excellence in technical education and research in the North East States
of India. The Ministry of Education has conferred the “Institute of National Importance”
status. Institute is committed to developing highly competent young Engineers,
Scientists, and Management Professionals to cater to the ever-increasing techno-
managerial needs of national and international standards fulfilling professional ethics and
societal commitment.
ABOUT DEPARTMENT
The Department of Bioengineering at NIT Agartala was established in 2012. The
department offers undergraduate (B.Tech.) and postgraduate (M.Tech. and Ph.D.)
academic programmes. The Department focuses on enhancing the effectiveness of
technical education and innovation ecosystems in biotechnology. The department has 8
faculty members specialized in various domains of bioengineering. The major thrust
areas include microbial and enzyme technology, biochemical engineering, tissue
engineering, plant biotechnology, nanobiotechnology, and computational biology.
ABOUT VRITIKA PROGRAM
VRITIKA is the call for initiation and practice in science through a Training and Skill
Internship. This program aims to provide promising PG students from universities and
colleges opportunities for exposure and hands-on research skill development experience.
For more information about the VRITIKA program, please visit the website:
https://acceleratevigyan.gov.in/programs/abhyas/vritika
ABOUT THE PROJECT
The wastewater discharge is often a cocktail of carcinogenic chemicals, dyes, salts
& heavy metals that hurt the environment and pollute essential drinking water sources.
Many azo dyes are highly toxic to the ecosystem & mutagens, which can have acute to
chronic effects upon organisms depending on exposure time & azo dye concentration.
Some azo dyes are degrading under certain conditions; they will break and forms an
aromatic compound which may have a toxic effect on the ecosystem. If the substances
do not degrade, they will remain in the environment. Our project is to provide a clear
vision of the effect of chemical compounds after the degradation process & their level of
vulnerability towards the water ecosystem.
Department of Bioengineering, NIT Agartala

--- Page 3 ---
Call for Research Internship Positions
(Accelerate Vigyan - VRITIKA)"
on
Toxicity Analysis of Degraded Metabolites of Textile Azo Dyes by Zebra Fish
Model: In-Silico & In-Vivo Approach
Accelerate Vigyan - VRITIKA
Eligibility:
Regular postgraduate students (M.Tech/M.Sc./PhD) in Biotechnology (or)
Bioinformatics (or) Chemistry (or) Chemical engineering with a strong
orientation toward research.
Application Procedure:
The application should be sent to the email padmanaban@nita.ac.in as a
single pdf attachment with the subject line “Application for Research Internship
Positions - Accelerate Vigyan - VRITIKA”.
The application should contain the following documents in order:
✓ Filled & Signed Application Form (Annexure -I).
✓ Endorsement cum No Objection Certificate duly approved by the Head of
Department (Annexure-II).
✓ Signed Undertaking Form (Annexure -III).
✓ Letter of Intent (upto 300 words):
•Why do you wish to attend this Skill Internship and Training?
•What do you indent to learn?
•How will it be useful for your career?
✓ Resume (Not exceeding 2 pages)
✓ P.G. Semester Marksheets (Self-Attested)
✓ U.G. Degree Certificate (Self Attested) or consolidated mark sheets
✓ Institution/College/University I.D. Card (Scanned Copy)
Selection:
• The screening will be primarily based on the details (marks, letter of
intent, etc.) provided in the application form.
• Shortlisted applicants (only) will be intimated through their email.
Department of Bioengineering, NIT Agartala

--- Page 4 ---
Call for Research Internship Positions
(Accelerate Vigyan - VRITIKA)"
on
Toxicity Analysis of Degraded Metabolites of Textile Azo Dyes by Zebra Fish
Model: In-Silico & In-Vivo Approach
Accelerate Vigyan - VRITIKA
Details of the Internship:
• The financial assistance for conducting this event has been provided by the
Science & Engineering Research Board (SERB), a statutory body of the
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India.
• The Training and Skill Internship period shall be for 6 to 8 Weeks in June –
July 2023.
• Last Date for application is 19th May 2023.
• List of selected students shall be mailed on or before 22nd May 2023.
• Reporting date for the selected students: 29th May 2023.
Nature of Support:
• The interns will be given for meeting daily necessary expenses such as
stationery, consumables, accommodation, food, etc., as per the norms of
the funding agency. Hostel facilities will be provided within the campus.
• No stipend will be provided for the internship.
• For outstation candidates, one-time onward and return train ticket fare
(Shortest route to Host institute in 2S/Sleeper class) will be reimbursed (as
per GOI norms).
• Certificate will be provided on successful completion of this Training and
Internship.
Department of Bioengineering, NIT Agartala

--- Page 5 ---
Call for Research Internship Positions
(Accelerate Vigyan - VRITIKA)"
on
Toxicity Analysis of Degraded Metabolites of Textile Azo Dyes by Zebra Fish
Model: In-Silico & In-Vivo Approach
Accelerate Vigyan - VRITIKA
How to Reach NIT Agartala
Reaching by Air: Agartala is connected very well by means of air. Regular
flights are available from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore, Kolkata etc.
After reaching the airport, one can book car/auto services (Distance: 30km).
Reaching by Train: The nearest station to NIT Agartala is Jirania, just 3km
away. However, most train stoppages are at Agartala station situated at
Badharghat (Distance: 21km). After reaching the station, one can book
car/auto services.
Reaching By Bus: Buses are available daily from Guwahati to Agartala. One
must get down at Ranir Bazar. From Ranir Bazar, regular auto services are
available to NIT Agartala.
Weather: Agartala experiences a rainy season in June – July. The temperature will
be 30-35°C.
Places to visit: Tripura is a state with a collection of hills and places of worship,
including its characteristic jungles.
Department of Bioengineering, NIT Agartala