
--- Page 1 ---
0-\t
ftdfffi
r-p$V ,jl-{*t'{
3TT{m(rn
National Institute of 'Iechnology, Agartala
nia.Trinur ndia. Pin -
Advt. No.: F.N_|TA.11(42-ME) /DST-sEBE-CRG/project/JRF/2023.24 Dated: 08.01 ,2024
Recruitment of Junior.Research Fellow (JRF) and Project Assistant for the research project funded by
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science &fecnnology (DST), Government
of lndia, under the scheme Core Research Grant (CRG)
Applications are invited for the post of Junior Research Fellow (JRF) and Project Assistant under the
sponsored research project, The details of the project and the post for reciuitment ire given below:
Title of the Project Development analysis and feasibility study of aruminium alloy-air battery
for powering electric vehicles
Funding Agency Science and Engrneerrng Research Board (SERB), Department of
Science &Technology (DST), Government of lndia, under the scheme
Core Research Grant (CRG)
Project duration lnitial appointment will be for one year, which is extendable up to the
duration of tlre prolect (about 3 years) solely based on the performance.
Principal lnvestigator Dr. Ajay Biswas
Assistan i Professor
Mechanicai Engineerrng Departnrent
Nll Agarrala
Monthly Emolument For JRF: Consolidated amount of Rs.31,000/- per month for first 02
years and Rs.35,000i- month for the thrrd year
For Project Assistant: Consolidated amount of Rs.20,0001- per
montn up to the dLrration otthe project (about 3 years)solely based on
pcrlorn tiii'tce,
Essential Qualificatiorrs
1. For JRF: ME / M. Tech in Manufacturing Technology or
relevant / Materials Science & Engineering i power
Electronics I Masters' degree in physics or other relevant
subjects (with consistently good academrc record and
a
minimurn of 60% marks or an equivalent CGpA in the Master s
degree or first division as defined by the awartiing lnstitute/
U,iversily) from recognized [Jniversities/lrrstitutes, with
CSIR/UGC-NET (Equivatent quatrficationlfeilowship) or valid
GATE score. Desirable: knowledge / experience in chemical
synthesis, electro physics, electrochemistry and fuel cell
will be preferred. Age lintit: 28 years on the date of application
with relaxation to sc/sT/OBC candidates as per Government of
lndia norms
2.
For Project Assistant: B.Sc. in physics or other relevant
i
5unjr:r/-ts J'hree years Diploma in Mechanical or relevant
Erigineering and Technology after llth Science with
consisiently good academic record ancj a minimum of 60%
marks or an equivalent grade or first ciivision as defi.ed by the
/
awarding lnstitute University). Desirable: knowledge t
in
experience chemical synthesis, electro phyiics,
olecirochemistry and fuel cell will be preferred. Age limit: 2g
years on the date of applicatiorr, rvith relaxation to SC/ST/OBC
candlrjates ias per oovernment of lndia nornrs
v

--- Page 2 ---
Description of responsibilities JRF:
The primary role of the Junior Research Fellow (JRF) is
to assist in research activities under the guidance of the
Principal lnvestigator (Pl) or the Co- Principal lnvestigator, The
JRF has to assist the Pl and Co-Pl in all respect regarding
I execution and successful completion of the project in
connection with planning, estimating of tools and equipments
etc, procurement installation, erection, commissioning,
fabrication and setting up of experimental set up,
experimentations, analysis, data collection, data analysis,
finding outcomes, publications, conferences, seminars all
documentatrons of fund utilization viz. preparation of repo(s
and returns etc. and all related works to be assigned time to
time.
Project Assistant:
The primary role of the Project Assistant is to assist the Pl,
Co-Pl, and JRF in all respect regarding execution and
successful completion of the project in connection with
planning, estrmating, tools and equipments etc. procurement,
installation, erection, commissioning, fabrication and setting up
of experimental set up, experimentations, data collection,
conferences, seminars, all documentations of fund utilization
viz. preparation of reports and returns etc, and all related works
to be assigned time to time.
interview
Date of lnterview (Walk-in Date: 25.07 .2024 (tentative)
offline) :
online / Mode of interview: online / offline depending on the suitability.
How to Apply
lnterested candidates are requested to submit the attached application format duly filled in with detailed CV ancr
scanned copy of all documents. All the attachments are to be converted into a single pdf file (size '10 MB max.
named <applicant's name> * <JRF/PA application for SERB > and send to Dr. Ajay Biswas, Assistant Professor
l\4echanical Engineering Department, NIT Agartala, via e-mail: ajaybiswasnita@gmail.com with the subject linr
'JRF/PA application for SERB Project 2023" latest by July 21,2024.
Note; CV should include details of academic grades starting from X standard onwards with details of the year ol
passing, unrversity or institute, etc, and also work experience and nature of work if applicable. Complete details o:
CSIR/UGC-NET (Equivalent qualificationifellowship) or valid GATE score such as year of passing/validity, discipline
marks, All lndia Rank and number of candidates appeared should be mentioned in the CV (for JRF position)
lncomplete applications will be rejected.
Only shotllisted candidates will be calicd for thc interview (via online / offline depending on the suitability)
Shortlisted candidates will be intimated by e-mail about the final date of interview. No TA/DA will be paid for
appearing for the interview. Documents in support of educational"qualifications, and experience certificates as
applicable must be produced at the time of selection process.
National Institute oll'cchnology Agartala
Barjal:r. Jirania, West'fripura. Pin:- 79904tt
l'cl. No. | 9l 3lJ I 234(1630,6629, Irax. nvr.r. I !) li8 I 2346360, _Ud.: www,.nira.ac.in

--- Page 3 ---
Terms and Conditions:
The position is purely on temporary basis and will be governed by the Administrative rules, conditions
imposed by Research & Consultancy Cell, NIT Agartala.
1. Candidates before appearing for the interview shall ensure that they are eligible for the position
they intend to apply.
2. lnterested candidate should send their filled application including photograph and
signed scan copy of educational qualifications, research publications and a statement of
interest on or before 21.07.2024,
3. e t
The application should b s e n through e-mail at Aiaybiswasnita@qmailffi .
4.
The project duration is 03 years. lnitial appointment for the position will be for one year, which
is extendable up to the duration of the project (about 3 years) solely based on performance.
5. No TfuDA is permissible for appearing in the interview and joining in case of selection. lnstitute
reseryes the right to cancel the process at any point of time without assigning any reason.
6.
Candidate shall bring along with them the original degree(s)/certificate(s) and experience
certificate(s) at the time of interview for verification.
.
7 Appointment will be temporary in nature and as per the lnstitute terms and conditions.
B, Only shortlisted candidates will be informed through email provided in the application form
for interview, upon selection engagement letter will be sent through the email.
L
The applicant will be responsible for the authenticity of information, documents and
photographs submitted.
10. The lnstitute reserves the right to cancel the recruitment without assigning any reason,
1 1. The candidate selected for the above position wrll have the option to register for PhD. program
under the Department of Mechanical Engineering. National lnstitute of Technology Agartala,
However, for admission to PhD program, the candidate must meet certain eligibility
requirements as per the Ph.D. rules 2018 of NIT
Agartala
(https://www.nita.ac.in/uploaded _files/Rules PhD 2018.pdf).
12. The temporary engagement can be termlnated without assigning any reason.
qd/
Dean(R&C)
NIT Agartala
NationaI Institutc ol' J'cchnoIogy AgnrtaIa
Baryala. Jirania. Wcst'['ripura, Pin:- 799046
l'cl. No. f 9l3til 2346630t6629, [:ax. No. rgl3lil 2346360, U_rL:u'ww.nira.ac.in

--- Page 4 ---
rrtirq
ftqlPrdr rir€rrq
National lnstitute of Technology, Agartala
Jirania,Tripura, India, Pin -799046
APPLICAI'ION I.'ORM
Rcccnt passport
sizc color
Application fbr the post of photography
atlixed
Advt. No.: Dated:
I Narnc of thc Applicant
2 Irather's/Husband's Narne
J 1 Nationality
4 Date ol'Birth
5 Category (SCiST/OBC/GEN/EWS)
6 Gender (MaleiFcmale)
1 MaritalStatus
8 NLi'l' Quali fi ed (Yes,A.{o)
9 G,\TI1 Quali ficd (Yes/No)
'title
l0 of the project undcrtaken in
M.'l'cch /M. Sc./U.'l'ech
1l Rescarch lixpericnce (lf any) (Attached
C-crtificate)
t2 Aadhar No. (attach copy o1'Aadhar
Card)
13. Prescnt Address
.Pin Code:
NationaI Instirurc of'-l'cchnoIogy Agartala
Ilarjala. Jirania, West'fripura, Pin.- 79904(t
'l'cl.
No. t-9l3lJ I 234(t63016629, t:ax. No. r 91381 2346360, ,U_rl;_ rvww.nita.ac.in

--- Page 5 ---
(Highcr School onwards) (Attachcd certifrcatc) :
14. Educarional Qualification
Year of goaid/ UniversitY Subjects
Percentage:ooff
E'xam Passed marks
pass!ng
I
l
15. [,ist o1'SCI Journal:
16. [.ist o1'ScoPus Jtlumal:
17. L,ist of Conl'erence PaPer:
8. Ilook/R00k ChaPtcr/Patent:
1
UNDER'IAKIN(;
I hereby declare that all the infonnation furnished above is true' correot and complete to the best of
my knowledge and belief'
Signature of the Candidate
Date:
.
Place:
.
National Institutc ol'l'cchnology Agartala
tsarjala''lirania' Wcst'[ripura' Pin:- 7?9946
'l-el. No. + 91 38 I :jJ46$016629, [iax' No' -1 9l 381 2346360' UtL \^/w\\ 'rrrta'ac'rn