
--- Page 1 ---
Tr$qffi€'rrrcrcrT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTAL A - 7 99046 (Tripura)
sqr,,No F'.N ITA"2( I 66-Estt)/Cont// zoztt (,4 A&, frqwoated, ( tit tzozl
WA! K:IIIJ-INTE RV I EW (2"'r Calt)
Nl'l '\gallalrt intends to cronduct a \\'alk-in-inlervieu' on ll-12-2023 at 3 PM at Registrar's Board Room, fbr the post of
Nledical OfficeriCampus Doctor on purelv contractual basis with fixed monthly consolidated salary as indicated below
utlhout anv- other arlditional perks. The contract period r'vill initially be for a period of l(one) year and may be f'urther extended
tbr period of maximum up to 3 r'ears sub.iect to requirement of the institute and satisfactory work performance. Yearly
extcnsion r.vill not be ntade beyond 65 years ofage (on end ot'contract or extendeci contract in case ofretirecl personnel).
No. of Posts 01 (One)
2. Qualification ESSENTIAL
MBBS Degree or equivalent qualification included in any one of the Schedules to
the Indian Medical Clouncil Act, 1956 (102 of 1956) and must be registered in a
llg@Medical Register.
pES,IRpABLE
Post Graduate Qualiflrcation, preferably MD in General Medicine, or equivalent
qualification included in any one of the Schedules to the Indian Medical Council
Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956) and must be registered in a State Medical Register or Indian
Medical Register
QlrQfdstes with experience will be given preference.
Note:
Retired Medical Officer up to 62 years of age may also apply/appear"
The Medical qualifications possessed by the candidates should have the
recognition of the Medical Council of India.
Cionipletion of cornpulsory Rotating Internship Certifi cate (Registration
Certiflcate. an ofJlcial document showing name of Cotiege/ Institution
fiom u,here degree/ diploma has been done and official docurnent showing
nanre of the institution fiom where experience has been gained are
requ ired)
l Remuneration Rs.60.000/- per month consolidated. For ofllcial tour/visits, TA/DA will be
admissible.
4. Age as on 0 l -09-2023 35 years (Maximum) as on 01-09-2023.
(Bpqlgq pqfConnel not exceeding 62 years as on 01-09-2023 can be considered)
5 Clontract Tenure The contract rvill be initially tbr a period of one year with yearly renewal up to 3
terms sub ject tcr annual satisfactory perfbrmance review.
The original term and renewal together is limited to 3 years.
6. Remarks. Interested candidates may walk fbr the interview on the scheduled date & time rvith
all original documents in support of his claim along with a set of self attested Xerox
copy of the said documents and two Nos. Passport size Photograph.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
- fhe engaElement is colttractual in nature rvith fixed tenure, and not against any sanctioned post. The selected candidate
cittrtrot r'llaim beneflts olthe permanent emplovrnent and will not be eligible fbr retirement beneflts" They rvill have no
righl to claim er-nplol,nrent at Nll'Agartala under trn1, circumstances.
z, l he engagement rvill bc sub.iecl to discontinuance at any point of time r.vithout assigning any reason if'exigency of'
scrvice does no1 require it or the interest of the institLrtion is not served to the satisf'action of the Appointing Authr-rrity.
l he engagenrent rvill not conf'er any right ofcontinuation or conflrmation under any circumstances.
z
Continuance on the post is sub.iect to satisfactory performance time to time at NIT Agartala.
; ll anyone wants to leave the institution during contract, he/she has to give one month's notice or pay thereot'.
Paee I of2
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Bariala, Jirania. West Tripura. Pin: - 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2546630 I 6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url :- www.nita.ac.in.

--- Page 2 ---
rrtrftfrffi*ierneFrRcRTT
National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTAL A - 799046 (Tripura)
f,.
Decisiori ,.rf the Appointing Authont;'in trll matter relating to eligibility, acceptance or re.jection of the applications.
wjll be flnal and binding on the ctrndidates and no enquiry or correspondence will be entertained in this matter.
fhe Appointing Authoritl, reserves the right to cancel the intervierv at any stage without assigning any reason.
Canr,assing in any lbrnr and trying to use inlluence or untair means will disqualify such candidates from the selection"
T'he age rvill be reckoned as on 0l-09-2023.
No l-AiDA will be paid tbr irppearing at the interview.
No other service beneflts and past service benellts are admissible.
ln-stitutes reservcs the right to la1' down any other ternrs & conditions of engagentent not indicated above ancl same
shail be binding on ciirrdidtrtes.
I\"Jle
{Col. (Dr) Ashish Badola}
gil{Rrd/ Registrar
lnerrf&errrmir/ NIT Aga rta la
l" PS to l)irector. NITA fbr kind infbrmation of the Director.
2. [he Chairnrtrn. Website & Netuorking, NIT Agartala with the request to upload the sSim\ e in the institute's website
- l :'r ed' r VR
I \ --
l. - r
{col. (Dr) Ashish BLt6l;i">
Registrar
S-msFdd/
\r{e{rieq'rd?Tr/ NIT A ga rta I a
Pae,g 2 of 2
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin: - 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2546630 I 6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url :- www.nita.ac.in.

--- Page 3 ---
EORMAT OFAPPLICATION
Aftix self-attested
Photograph
(Fassport size 3.5
X4.5 cm) here
.
I Nante of post applied tbr
2 frLrll r-ame (in block letters)
I
I ather"s/Husband'snirrre
1.
Cender
5.
Contact Address
6.
Pernranent Address
7
Contact email ID
8.
Mobile No
9 Date ol brrth
10. Highest Educational qualification
ll.
PAN No.
i2.
Experience /Ernpiol,ment Details
sl.. Name of Organization Post occupied Nature of work From To
No. (RanUDesignation)
DECLARATION
I have all the documents in support ofthe eligibility for the post of=-- as given in the advertisement and shall
lurnish the same at any stage tbr veritlcation.
I agree that in the event of anf intbrmation given by rre in the application, on the basis rvhich my appointment is
r:onsidered b1'NI'I Agartala is fbund to be fhlse. it will constitute serious misconduct and will render me liable to
irrrnediate dismissal fiom the selection process/service.
Place Signat ure_---=-
Ilate Name