Chemical Engineering

programmes
With that
mission, the department started to offer BTech in Chemical Engineering degree
in the undergraduate level since 2009-10 and presently has an intake capacity
of 75 students. BTech is national JEE mains exams. In the postgraduate level,
the department is offering MTech in Chemical Engineering with intake capacity
of 10 seats since 2012-13. MTech positions are filled up both through GATE and
Non-GATE entrances. The department is also offering PhD in Engineering program
since 2012-13. The Ph.D. positions are filled-up twice a year through
advertisement and open completion.
The BTech
curriculum has 160 credits spanning over 4 years including 43 credits common
engineering curriculum in 1
st
year, 41.5 credits in 2
nd
year, 45 credits in 3
rd
year and 31.5 credits in 4
th
and
final year with options to undertake 6 months’ project in the industry in the
final semester of the BTech program.
The MTech
curriculum has 80 credits spanning over 2 years including 50 credit in 1
st
year, 30 credits in 2
nd
year, with options to undertake full 1 year
(2 semester) research in the final year of the MTech program
For the purpose
of delivering quality education to the students and keep upto changing global
and industrial demand, the department revises the curriculum from time to time
with input from industry and academia. The faculty members are involved in
teaching and advising students and make their academic journey memorable.

PROGRAM EDUCATION OBJECTIVES (PEOs)
PEO1-To impart the adequate fundamental knowledge in the chemical engineering domain.
PEO2- Application of chemical engineering knowledge in design, research, innovation, industrial practices and societal development.
PEO3- To impart adequate knowledge for the product development utilizing the available resources in the North-east part of the India.
PEO4- To enhance the skill of problem solving and employability, time and trace management, engagement in team work.

PROGRAM SPECIFIC OUTCOMES (PSOs)
PSO1- The graduated students will be employable to chemical and other allied industries by acquiring the knowledge to identify, analyze, control and solve the industrial, environmental and management problems.
PSO2-The students will be able to carry forward higher studies and research on multi-disciplinary fields.
PSO3-The students will be able to design chemical equipments, plants; development of products and also to carry out entrepreneurship.

The department currently offers the following programmes:
B.Tech in Chemical Engineering.
Syllabus of B.Tech Programme
.
M.Tech in Chemical Engineering.
Syllabus of M.Tech Programme
.
Ph.D in  Engineering (Candidates from various Engineering and Science background/disciplines are welcome to apply to PhD programme).
