--- Page 1 ---
NITA/ 24th - FC/ Minutes
May 02, 2014/NITA

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
West Tripura, Pin: 799046

Minutes of the 24th Meeting of the
Finance Committee
held on May 02, 2014

The 24th meeting of the Finance Committee of the National Institute of Technology, Agartala, was held on May 02, 2014, at 10:30 am in the Conference Room of NIT Agartala.

The following members were present at the meeting:

(1) Prof. P. N. Singh: Chairman, Finance Committee and BoG of NIT, Agartala

(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya: Member, Director, NIT, Agartala

(3) Shri Yogendra Tripathi: Member, Joint Secretary & Financial Advisor,
Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India.

(4) Prof. Nitindra Nath Som: Member, Former Professor of Jadavpur University, Kolkata.

(5) Shri Rajesh Singh Solanki: Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India,
(Representative of MHRD, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD).

(6) Dr. John Deb Barma: Member, Asst. Professor, NIT, Agartala.

(7) Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti: Member Secretary, Finance Committee and Registrar (I/C), NIT, Agartala.

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman, Finance Committee (FC) of NIT Agartala, presided over the meeting.

Prof. P. N. Singh, Chairman, Finance Committee, NIT Agartala, welcomed all members of the Finance Committee. He introduced Shri Yogendra Tripathi, Joint Secretary & Financial Advisor, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India, New Delhi, to all the Members of the Finance Committee and welcomed him.

The Chairman then invited the Director and the Registrar (i/c) to initiate proceedings on the agenda items.

Item No. 24.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of the 23rd Meeting of the Finance Committee held on February 27, 2014.

The minutes of the 23rd Meeting of the Finance Committee held on February 27, 2014, in the Conference Room of NIT Agartala, were circulated to all the members. No comments/views/suggestions were received from the Members of the Finance Committee. The minutes of the 23rd Finance Committee meeting were confirmed.

--- Page 2 ---
NITA/ 24th - FC/ Minutes
May 02, 2014/NITA

Item No. 24.2: Action Taken on the Decision of the 23rd Meeting of the Finance Committee held on February 27, 2014, in the Conference Room of NIT Agartala.

The action taken report was noted.

Item No. 24.3: To consider the Financial Status of the Institute as on April 25, 2014.

The Finance Committee noted the present financial status and requirement of funds under Plan and Non-Plan schemes.

Item No. 24.4: To consider the Annual Budget of the Institute for the year 2014-15.

The Annual Budget for the financial year 2014-2015 of NIT Agartala (Plan outlay - Rs. 35700.00 lakhs and Non-Plan outlay - Rs.8050.00 Lakhs) was perused and approved by the Finance Committee with the following observations:

(A) Under the Plan outlay, fund requirements are to be prepared in two categories, viz., Immediate and Priority. The works which are in the final stage of completion shall fall under the Immediate category. Remaining works/procurements will fall under the Priority basis. The priority works could be taken up depending upon the availability of funds from the MHRD to NITA on a quarterly basis.

(B) Salary projection under the Non-Plan Head should be utilized only for salary on an actual expenses basis.

Item No. 24.5: To consider the Physical & Financial Statement of the ongoing construction works/projects.

The Finance Committee noted the progress of the works with the following observations:

Buildings which are in an advanced stage of completion are to be completed and put in use immediately, as noted under Item No. 24.4. Furnishing of the completed buildings is to be done on a priority basis. The Director, NITA, may review the individual work from time to time. In some cases, the fund requirements for on-going projects are projected on the higher side and that might be worked out on a realistic basis. Prioritizing the new projects, works could be taken up depending on the availability of funds from the MHRD.

Item No. 24.6: To consider the Medical Reimbursement Claim for Rs. 1,96,269/- of Dr. Rabindranath Barman, Asstt. Prof., PE Dept., NIT Agartala in connection with the treatment of his wife.

The Finance Committee approved the proposal for reimbursement of the medical claim of Dr. Rabindranath Barman, Assistant Professor, for undertaking treatment in a private hospital as a special case, limiting the claim up to the CGHS rate available for undertaking such treatment in reference to the Government of India, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Department of Health & Family Welfare, Office Memorandum No.Z.15025/5/2011-CGHS III/CGHS(P),

--- Page 3 ---
NITA/ 24th - FC/ Minutes
May 02, 2014/NITA

dated 22nd November 2011. The NITA should work out the claim as admissible under the CGHS rate and settle the claim accordingly.

Item No. 24.7: Sanction of an amount of Rs. 25,454.00 (Rupees twenty-five thousand four hundred fifty-four only) from TEQIP-II towards cancellation charges for airfare.

The Finance Committee observed that the proposal for reimbursement of cancellation charges of airfare for an amount of Rs.25,454.00 is not admissible.

Item No. 24.8: Present Status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

Dr. Ardhendu Saha, Coordinator, TEQIP-II Project, made a presentation on the present status of the TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala. The Finance Committee noted the present status of the TEQIP-II project.

The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the Chair.

(Sumanta Chakrabarti) (Prof. P. N. Singh)
Member Secretary Chairman
Finance Committee Finance Committee & BOG
& National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Registrar (i/c)

National Institute of Technology, Agartala
