--- Page 1 ---

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA

West Tripura, Pin: 799046

MINUTES OF THE 26TH MEETING OF THE
FINANCE COMMITTEE
HELD ON SEPTEMBER 24, 2015

The 26th meeting of the Finance Committee of National Institute of Technology, Agartala
was held on September 24, 2015, at 10:30 am in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House,
New Delhi.

The following members were present in the meeting:

(1) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak : Chairperson, Finance Committee and BoG of
NIT Agartala.
(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya : Member. Director, NIT, Agartala
(3) Shri Sanjeev Kumar Sharma : Director (NITs), MHRD, Govt of India,
(Representative of Joint Secretary dealing with
National Institute of Technology, MHRD, Govt. of India)

(4) Shri Rajesh Singh : Director (Finance), MHRD. Govt. of India
(Representative of Financial Advisor, Department
of Higher Education. MHRD, Govt. of India).

(5) Dr. John Deb Barma : Member. Asst Professor. NIT. Agartala.

(6) Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma : Member Secretary. Finance Committee and
Registrar. NIT. Agartala.

Prof. Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson, Finance Committee of NIT Agartala, presided over the
meeting and welcomed all members of the Finance Committee. The Director apprised the
Committee that the tenures of the Institute's faculty representatives, viz., Prof. Richi Prasad
Sharma and Dr. John DebBarma in the Board of Governors, have expired. The Senate of the
Institute in its last meeting (17th Senate Meeting) held on 22nd April 2015, nominated them for
a further term.

--- Page 2 ---

The minutes of the 17th Senate Meeting will be placed during the discussion of
the Board’s Agenda Items in this meeting. The Chairman, Board of Governors, Prof. Deepak B.
Phatak, approved the Item No. S/17/3/A of the 17th Senate meeting regarding nomination of
Prof. R.P. Sharma and Dr. John Deb Barma to the Board of Governors of NIT Agartala. It was
further decided that Prof. R.P. Sharma, having a Civil Engineering background, will represent the
Board in the Building and Works Committee (BWC) of the Institute, and Dr. John Deb Barma
will represent the Board in the Finance Committee (FC). The Chairman again welcomed the two
nominated members to the meeting. Then, incorporating Dr. John Deb Barma as the Board's
representative in the FC, the meeting started.

At the outset, Prof. Gopal Mugeraya, Director, NIT Agartala, presented a brief account of
the contemporary achievements of the Institute in academics, research, placements, and sports
of students, and also on the ongoing important construction works, safety, and security
aspects of the campus, etc. He requested the MHRD representatives present in the meeting to
sanction more funds to keep the pace of developments intact and help develop NIT
Agartala as the top NIT of the North-Eastern part of India. He further highlighted the recent
visit of Hon'ble Minister of HRD, Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani, to the Institute on 15th September
2015, her interactions with students and faculties, and various related aspects like the
renovation of old hostels, periodical maintenance of new hostels, and improvement of
cleanliness aspects of the hostels and campus in general. Prof. Deepak B. Phatak,
Chairperson, seconded the Director's views and urged the sanction of a special grant to carry out
the tasks suggested by the Hon’ble Minister of HRD. In reply, the MHRD representatives, Mr.
Sanjeev K. Sharma, Director NITs, and Mr. Rajesh Singh, Director Finance, clarified that due
to total grant constraints for all the NITs, it may not be possible to sanction a special grant for
NIT Agartala. However, they suggested that NIT Agartala should plan its construction
activities in such a way that all the ongoing constructions, like hostels, should be given priority
and the remaining sanctioned grant in the plan head could be utilized to carry out new works
after ranking the new proposals as per the need of the Institute.

The Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussion on the
agenda items. Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya, Dean (Faculty Welfare), was invited to the meeting to present the
Agenda Items. Then, discussion started on the Agenda points.

--- Page 3 ---

Item No. 26.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of the 25th Meeting of the Finance
Committee held on January 17, 2015.

The minutes of the 25th Meeting of the Finance Committee held on January 17, 2015, in the
Conference Room of NIT Agartala, were circulated to all the members. No comments/views/
suggestions were received from the members of the Finance Committee. Hence, the minutes of
the 25th Finance Committee Meeting were confirmed without any modification.

Item No. 26.2: Action taken on the decision of the 25th Meeting of the Finance
Committee held on January 17, 2015, in the Conference Room of
NIT Agartala.

The Committee perused the Action Taken report and made the following observations:

(i) In the Agenda Item No. 26.2, all the items of the 25th Meeting of the Finance
Committee were not chronologically arranged, and in respect of some items,
actions taken reports were absent. It was suggested that henceforth, action taken in
respect of all the items are to be serially mentioned in the corresponding Agenda
Item. If no action is necessary in respect of some items, then the same has to be
mentioned.

(ii) In respect of item No. 25.14.2, the FC, in principle, agreed to and approved the rules
prepared by the institute. However, it was suggested that a copy of the Draft Rules
for maintaining GPF subscriptions of the staff members of NIT Agartala may be
forwarded to the Director NITs, MHRD, for perusal and suggestions for any
modifications if necessary. Subsequently, the same may be placed in the next
Board Meeting for approval for implementation.

Item No. 26.3: To consider the Financial Status of the Institute as on August 31,
2015.

The Committee noted the financial status of the Institute as on 31st August 2015. In view of
the expected grants to be received from MHRD, the FC directed NITA to plan its expenditure in
such a manner that excessive liabilities are not created.

Item No. 26.4: To consider the Annual Budget of the Institute for the year 2015-
16.

The FC deliberated on the Annual Budget of the Institute for the year 2015-16. After discussion at
length, the Committee suggested that the Institute has to recast the submitted Annual Budget

--- Page 4 ---

in a more realistic and pragmatic way in view of the discussion in item No. 26.3 and place the
same in the next BoG meeting.

Item No. 26.5: To consider the Annual Accounts of the Institute for the financial
year 2014-15.

The FC perused the Annual Accounts of the Institute for the financial year 2014-15 and after
discussion, approved the same. The committee suggested that henceforth, during discussion
on Annual Accounts, the Audit Report and Audit Observations made by the Accountant
General on Annual Accounts of the previous year must be placed along with the Annual
Accounts for final decision. FC asked to put up the compliance report in the next meeting with
respect to the observations of the Auditor.

Item No. 26.6: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the 33rd and 34th
Building & Works Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.

The FC observed that as per the Statutes of NITs, the minutes of BWC need not be put up in the FC
meeting. Minutes of FC are supposed to be put up before the Board of Governors. Only those
items which have financial implications and thus, require the recommendations of FC, should be
placed as separate agenda items. It was also stated that as per the Statutes 13(1), BWC can
give administrative approval and expenditure sanctions for minor works. It was apprised by
the Registrar that the quantum for minor works has not been defined. The FC recommended that
a threshold of Rs. 25 Lakhs may be recommended to the board for approval. Accordingly, the FC
only took up those items which require its financial approval. The decisions of the FC in
respect of those items are placed beside the items mentioned below:

| Item No. | Agenda                                                                                        | Observations and suggestions of Finance Committee                                                                                                                   |
| :------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
|          | To consider the estimate for "Construction of Central Lecture Hall Complex having 27 Class Rooms at NIT Agartala" at a cost of Rs.70,52,95,723.00 | The FC felt that the project should aim to include smart class rooms with flexible capacity. Hence, a study of similar projects undertaken by IITs may be undertaken and the project recast. The same may be placed in the next FC meeting as an agenda item. |
|          | To consider the total tentative deviation (including extra items, substitute items etc. in totality) in the work of Construction of Sports Complex at NIT Agartala | FC noted that deviation to a certain limit is allowed as per rules. Hence, deviations beyond this should be avoided. The matter may be brought in the next meeting with quantified deviations.                                                        |

--- Page 5 ---

|  | To consider the estimate for the work “Bamboo wood flooring and wall cladding in Director’s Chamber and Board Room in Admin Block-1 at NIT Agartala” at a cost of Rs.22,31,068.00 | The proposal should be brought before FC in the next meeting with proper justification. |

BWC item 33.6: Detailed estimates should be placed before the FC after looking into the
estimates from the point of view of removing unnecessary items.

Item 33.7: The FC mentioned that keeping in mind the paucity of funds, such proposals
deserve to be scrutinized thoroughly. Hence, justification and
estimation should be discussed in the next FC meeting.

Item 33.9: The FC mentioned that GFR should be followed in all cases, including the
cases which have been approved by the Director.

Item 33.10: The FC rejected the recommendations of the BWC for a limited tender. It also
asked NIT Agartala to realistically assess the requirement. GFR should
be followed while deciding the tender process.

Item 33.11: The FC recommended the proposal for approval to the BoG. However, the FC
suggested the Director, NITA, to avoid deviation by adopting a sound
estimation process.

Item 33.12: The FC recommended the proposal for approval of the BoG.
Item 33.13: The FC recommended the proposal for approval of the BoG.
Item 33.14: The FC recommended the proposal for approval of the BoG.

--- Page 6 ---

BWC 34th Meeting:

Item 34.2: With reference to 32.18.3, a tender should be invited for the work in accordance with GFR.

Item 34.3: It was apprised by the Registrar, NITA, that there is no delegation of power to BWC/Director for minor works. Hence, approval and
ratification is beyond the power of the Director and BWC respectively. The FC
cautioned the Director, NITA, and BWC to adhere to their financial limits
while taking a decision on work orders. The list of items should be
brought before the FC or BWC again, if the proposal of delegation of power
up to Rs. 25 Lakhs is approved by the BoG.

Item 34.4: Kindly see remarks under item 26.6 ATN of BWC item 33.3 and do
the needful.

Item 34.5: Kindly see remarks under item 26.6 ATN of BWC item 33.4 and do
the needful.

Item 34.6: Please look at the observations under item 33.7 above and do the needful.

Item 34.7: The FC noted that allotment of work to ThyssenKrupp is not according to
the guidelines of GFR and CVC guidelines. The FC noted the seriousness of
the case and decided that (a) the work order should be canceled
immediately and (b) the Institute and BWC have exceeded its authority,
first, by calling a limited tender and secondly, by approving the proposal
beyond their power. The FC pointed out that the proper procedure as laid out in
GFR should be strictly followed.

Item 34.8: Since there is no defined delegation of power, approval and ratification
is beyond the scope of the Director/BWC in this case. Hence, the item should
either be brought to FC or to BWC if delegation of Rs. 25 Lakhs is
approved by the Board as proposed in this meeting.

--- Page 7 ---

Item 34.9: Since there is no defined delegation of power, approval and ratification
is beyond the scope of the Director/BWC in this case. Hence, the item should
either be brought to FC or to BWC if delegation of Rs. 25 Lakhs is
approved by the Board as proposed in this meeting.

Item 34.10: Since there is no defined delegation of power, approval and ratification
is beyond the scope of the Director/BWC in this case. Hence, the item should
either be brought to FC or to BWC if delegation of Rs. 25 Lakhs is
approved by the Board as proposed in this meeting.
Item 34.12 to 34.21: Items may be placed along with the recommendations of the BWC.

Item 34.22: Estimate and justification of the proposal to be presented in the next
FC meeting.

Item 34.23 to 34.31: Items may be placed along with the recommendations of the BWC.

Item No. 26.7: Present Status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.
The FC noted the present status and benefits derived of the TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

Item No. 26.8: To consider the Physical & Financial Statement of the ongoing
construction works/ projects.

The Committee perused the status of the ongoing construction works and the expenditure
already incurred as well as the fund requirement for the financial year 2015-16. It was
observed that for the current financial year, the projected requirement of funds is Rs. 83.02 Crores
+ Rs. 29.60 Crores (deposited works) = Rs. 112.62 Crores for the ongoing works/
projects. There is also a fresh proposal for upcoming works amounting to Rs. 100.11 Crores.
Noting these, the FC commented that the Institute should plan its works within the available and
future grants.

--- Page 8 ---

Item No. 26.9: Any other item with permission of the Chair.

Item No. 26.9.1: Financial power of Buildings Works Committee

As per the Statutes 13(1), BWC can give administrative approval and expenditure sanctions
for minor works. It was apprised by the Registrar that the quantum for minor works has not been
defined. The FC recommended that a threshold of Rs. 25 Lakhs may be recommended to the board
for approval. The FC suggested NITA/BWC to follow provisions of GFR and/or CPWD norms for
carrying out the building and works proposals.

The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the Chair.

(Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma) (Prof. Deepak B. Phatak)
Member Secretary Chairperson
Finance Committee Finance Committee & BOG
& National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Registrar

National Institute of Technology, Agartala
