--- Page 1 ---

27th FC Minutes
December 05, 2015 / NITA
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
West Tripura, Pin: 799046
*******
MINUTES OF THE 27th MEETING OF THE
FINANCE COMMITTEE
HELD ON DECEMBER 05, 2015

The 27th meeting of the Finance Committee of the National Institute of Technology, Agartala, was held on December 05, 2015, at 10:30 am in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House, New Delhi.

The following members were present at the meeting:

(1) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson, Finance Committee and BoG of NIT Agartala.
(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya, Member, Director, NIT, Agartala.
(3) Smt. Darshana M. Dabral, Joint Secretary & Financial Advisor, IFD, MHRD, Govt. of India.
(4) Shri Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, Director (NITs), MHRD, Govt. of India (Representative of Joint Secretary dealing with National Institute of Technology, MHRD, Govt. of India).
(5) Dr. John Deb Barma, Member, Asst. Professor, NIT, Agartala.
(6) Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya, Member Secretary, Finance Committee and Registrar (I/C), NIT, Agartala.

Prof. Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson, Finance Committee of NIT Agartala, presided over the meeting and welcomed all members of the Finance Committee. He specially welcomed Smt. Darshana M. Dabral, JS & FA, Ministry of HRD, for making it convenient to attend the Finance Committee meeting despite her busy schedule.

The Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussions on the agenda items.

At the outset, it was suggested that there should be a Committee comprising external experts to scrutinize estimates for Building and Works. NIT Patna has adopted this practice. NIT, Agartala, may contact NIT Patna in this regard and place the matter in the next meeting of the FC.

Item No. 27.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of the 26th Meeting of the Finance Committee held on September 24, 2015.

The minutes of the 26th Meeting of the Finance Committee held on September 24, 2015, in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House, New Delhi, were circulated to all the members. The minutes were confirmed incorporating the suggestions proposed by Smt. Darshana M. Dabral, JS & FA, IFD, MHRD, and Mr. Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, Director (NITs), MHRD.

In this regard, the Finance Committee categorically mentioned that the minutes of a meeting will be confirmed only in the next meeting after discussion and incorporating suggestions/ modifications/ alterations, if any, suggested by the Members. After confirmation and incorporating all suggestions, the confirmed minutes will be circulated among all concerned. Only draft minutes of a meeting will be circulated by the Registrar to the Members for their perusal and suggestions.

1 of 5

--- Page 2 ---

Item No. 27.2: Action taken on the decision of the 26th Meeting of the Finance Committee held on September 24, 2015, in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House, New Delhi.

The Finance Committee noted the action taken report with the following observations:

It was observed that agenda item 27.2 contains an error regarding BWC items 34.12 to 34.21 and 34.23 to 34.31. The minutes of the 34th BWC meeting did not mention any recommendations; hence, the FC, in its 26th meeting, stated that these should be referred to the BWC. Therefore, the action taken should reflect that these items will be placed in the next BWC meeting.

(1) The Joint Secretary and Financial Advisor of MHRD, Govt. of India, suggested that, in the action taken report regarding Item No. 34.5 (under Item No. 27.2, Sl. No. 5, Ref. item no. 26.0 of Building & Works Committee), the term "deviation" should be replaced by "quantified variation" (or CPWD terminology).

Regarding Item No. 34.7 (under Item No. 27.2, Sl. No. 5, Ref. item no. 26.6) of the Building & Works Committee, it was resolved that the Chairperson will prepare a Fact-Finding Report and will place it in the next Board Meeting. The Chairperson, BoG, and Prof. A. Srinivasan, Member of BoG, will meet with the Members of the Building & Works Committee regarding strict compliance with GFR provisions and CVC guidelines.

(2) Regarding Item No. 27.2, Sl. No. 4, Ref. item no. 26.5 of the 27th Finance Committee meeting concerning the Annual Accounts of the Institute for the Financial Year 2014-15, the typographical errors in the action taken report of the annexure to the Separate Audit Report on the accounts of the National Institute of Technology, Agartala, for the year 2013-14 (Pg. No. 63 of Agenda of 27th FC) should be corrected and resubmitted to the Office of the Accountant General (Audit), Tripura.

The Finance Committee further advised the Institute to strictly adhere to the suggestions of the conducted audit.

In this respect, the Finance Committee suggested the following:

(i) An Institute-level Audit Cell should be created immediately.
(ii) Physical verification of the asset inventory must be completed.
(iii) Regarding the payment of Statutory Dues, certificates should be issued after March of each year to the effect that there are no outstanding Statutory Dues pending.

2 of 5

--- Page 3 ---

27th FC Minutes
December 05, 2015 / NITA

The minutes of the 26th Finance Committee Meeting should be modified incorporating the suggestions and circulated among all concerned, as confirmed minutes.

Item No. 27.3: To consider the Financial Status of the Institute as on November 27, 2015.

The Finance Committee noted and discussed the financial status of the Institute as on 30-11-2015 and reiterated that the Institute should plan its expenditure within the expected financial grants of Rs. 50.00 crores under Non-Plan funds and Rs. 80.00 crores under Plan funds.

Item No. 27.4: To consider the Audit Report on the accounts of the Institute for the year 2014-15.

The Finance Committee perused the Audit Report of accounts of the Institute for the year 2014-15 along with the annexure to the Separate Audit Report on the accounts of the Institute for the year 2014-15 [attached with the letter from the Office of the Accountant General (Audit), Tripura, vide No. ECPA/ SAR-NIT/ 2014-15/ 361, dated: November 09, 2015] and suggested the following for strict adherence by the Institute:

(i) Audit observations should be answered on a priority basis and placed before the Board.
(ii) A Compliance Report and the annexure to the SAR must be placed before the next meeting of the Finance Committee.

Item No. 27.5: To consider the estimate for the "Electromechanical work in the swimming pool of Sports Complex at NIT Agartala" at a cost of Rs. 4,47,84,869.00.

It was intimated that, in an earlier meeting of the Board, considering the importance of the work regarding the overall completion of the Sports Complex of NIT Agartala, administrative approval was accorded to install electromechanical work in the Swimming Pool of the Sports Complex of NIT Agartala.

The Finance Committee suggested that there is a need for greater scrutiny regarding the requirement of the system, particularly due to a shortage of funds. There should be a comparative study with other such Swimming Pools. The proposal should be placed in the next meeting after reconsideration by the BWC.

Item No. 27.6: To consider approval for the work of "Supply, Installation, Testing & Commissioning of 15 (fifteen) lifts in Administrative Building 1 & 2, School of Management, International Guest House, Academic Block (ECE Deptt. & DoNER) and Central Library at NIT Agartala" at a cost of Rs. 2,86,51,140.00.

Lifts are essentially required, especially for use by Persons with Disabilities (PwD). The Govt. of India has a scheme related to PwD, for which NIT Agartala should approach the MHRD, Govt. of India.

3 of 5

--- Page 4 ---

27th FC Minutes
December 05, 2015 / NITA

Item No. 27.7: To consider the estimate for the work of "Providing and fixing Ornamental False Ceiling and HVAC in Seminar Halls and Student Activity Room in School of Management Building at NIT Agartala" at a cost of Rs. 51,24,796.00.

The FC accepted the estimate for consideration by the BoG.

Item No. 27.8: To consider the estimate for "Construction of Central Lecture Hall Complex having 27 Class Rooms at NIT Agartala" at a cost of Rs. 70,52,95,723.00.

The Finance Committee agreed with the necessity of the project for constructing a Central Lecture Hall in the Institute as the student strength in classes has increased to 110-130 per batch, and the present class rooms can accommodate only 60 to 70 students. However, the Committee suggested that the proposal should again be placed before the Building & Works Committee with all technical details, the provision of Smart Class Rooms with flexible capacity, and the furniture needed. Then, with the approval of the Building & Works Committee, the proposal may again be put to the Finance Committee for consideration. The FC also suggested that NIT Durgapur has estimates for a similar type of project using modern furniture. NITA should contact NIT, Durgapur, in this regard.

Item No. 27.9: To consider the revised Budget of the Institute for the year 2015-2016.

The Finance Committee approved the revised budget of the Institute for the year 2015-16 for onward transmission to the Ministry of HRD, Govt. of India. However, the Finance Committee suggested that the Institute should plan its expenditure, prioritizing the projects and staying within the available grants.

Item No. 27.10: Medical re-imbursement claim of Shri Dilip Kumar Ghosh, Driver.

Regarding the re-imbursement of the Medical bill of Shri Dilip Kumar Ghosh, the Finance Committee suggested that Shri Ghosh may be requested to apply to the State Government Medical Board for ex-post facto approval with all relevant papers. The matter may be placed again before the FC after the above compliance.

Item No. 27.11: Present Status of the TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

The Finance Committee noted the present status of the TEQIP-II projects of NIT Agartala and expressed its satisfaction with the achievements made under the project so far.

Item No. 27.12: To consider the Physical & Financial Statement of the ongoing construction works/projects.

The Finance Committee noted the physical and financial statement of the ongoing Construction Works and reiterated that the Institute should prioritize its works and projects and undertake them in a phased manner within the provision of grants.

4 of 5

--- Page 5 ---

27th FC Minutes
December 05, 2015 / NITA

Item No. 27.13: To consider the expansion of Campus Wide Networking (Phase III) of NIT Agartala for existing physical infrastructure and upcoming infrastructure under construction.

The Finance Committee recommended the proposal of the Institute for Campus Wide Networking (Phase-III) for existing infrastructure and upcoming infrastructure under construction. In this regard, the FC suggested that an estimate should be prepared by a Committee consisting of the following members:

(a) Prof. Sukumar Nandi, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering, IIT Guwahati.
(b) Prof. Asok De, Director, NIT Patna.
(c) One member from NIC (National Informatics Centre).
(d) Two members from NIT, Agartala.

Item No. 27.14: Any other item with the permission of the Chair.

Item No. 27.14.1: To consider the Items approved by the BWC in its 34th meeting held on August 24, 2015 (Item No. 34.8, 34.9 & 34.10).

For consideration of the items, the modified minutes of the 34th BWC (to be confirmed in the next meeting of BWC) containing approval of the items must be placed before the Finance Committee.

The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the Chair.

(Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya) (Prof. Deepak B. Phatak)
Member Secretary Chairperson
Finance Committee Finance Committee & BoG
& National Institute of Technology, Agartala
Registrar
National Institute of Technology, Agartala

5 of 5
