--- Page 1 ---

West Tripura, Pin: 799046

Minutes of the 28th Meeting of the
Finance Committee
held on July 01, 2016

The 28th meeting of the Finance Committee of National Institute of Technology, Agartala was held on July 01, 2016 at 10:30 am in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House, New Delhi.

The following members were present in the meeting:

1. Prof. Deepak B. Phatak: Chairperson, Finance Committee and BoG of NIT Agartala.

2. Prof. Gopal Mugeraya: Member, Director, NIT, Agartala.

3. Mr. Satpal Sharma: Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India (Representative of Joint Secretary & Financial Advisor, IFD, MHRD, Govt. of India).

4. Dr. John Deb Barma: Member, Asstt. Professor, NIT, Agartala.

5. Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya: Member Secretary, Finance Committee and Registrar (I/C), NIT, Agartala.

> Joint Secretary (dealing with NITs), MHRD could not attend the meeting due to prior occupation.

Prof. Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson, Finance Committee of NIT Agartala, presided over the meeting and welcomed all members of the Finance Committee, thanking them for attending the meeting.

> The Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussion on the agenda items.

Item No. 28.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of the 27th Meeting of the Finance Committee held on December 05, 2015.

The Finance Committee perused the minutes of the 27th Finance Committee meeting held on December 05, 2015 in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House, New Delhi, and confirmed the same.

Item No. 28.2: Action taken on the decision of the 26th Meeting of the Finance Committee held on September 24, 2015 in the Conference Room of NIT Transit House, New Delhi.

The Finance Committee noted the action taken report with the following observation:

--- Page 2 ---

(i) Ref. 26.2 (ii) of 26th FC:

Regarding draft rules for maintaining GPF subscription of the staff members of NIT Agartala:

It was suggested that the draft GPF rules should be vetted by Legal Experts, and the vetted GPF rules should again be forwarded to the MHRD for their perusal and approval for implementation.

(ii) Ref. 26.3 of 26th FC:

Regarding Financial Status of the Institute:

The Registrar apprised the Committee that for completion of ongoing work of the 1500 capacity Boys Hostel, an amount of Rs. 80 crores is necessary in the current financial year. Also, for completion of the deposit works undertaken by CPWD, an amount of Rs. 4.80 crores is necessary. In this respect, the committee suggested that for the projects under CPWD and for the 1500 capacity Boys Hostel, the Institute should appeal to the MHRD for grant of special sanctions in order to complete the projects within the current financial year. In this regard, a letter with detailed requirements may be forwarded to the MHRD.

Item No. 28.3: To consider the Annual Budget of the Institute for the year 2016-17.

The Finance Committee perused the Annual Budget of the Institute for the financial year 2016-17, which has already been forwarded to the MHRD. During discussion, it was suggested that while submitting the revised budget, the projects under priority may be allocated more funds for their early completion. Regarding sanction of special grants for the projects under priority, the Committee reiterated its decision as stated in Item No. 28.2 (ii).

Item No. 28.4: To consider the Financial Status of the Institute as on June 29, 2016.

The Registrar presented the financial status of the Institute as on June 29, 2016. It was apprised to the Members that under Non-Plan head the unspent balance is Rs. 3.62 crores, which is insufficient to meet the requirement of giving one month's salary to the employees. Also, under Plan Head there is a marginal balance of Rs. 6.7 crores. The Committee suggested that the Institute should immediately write to the MHRD for granting funds under Plan and Non-Plan Head to meet the projected requirement as per budget proposal.

Item No. 28.5: Present Status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

During discussion, the Director, NIT Agartala, apprised the Committee regarding achievements so far made under the Project. It was placed that already 97.19% of the sanctioned amount under the Project has been utilized. Under the Project, 288 students were funded for attending Conference, Workshop, etc. during 2011-12 to 2015-16. Also, five students attended Conference abroad under the TEQIP-II project. Thirteen patents have been filed with aegis from the TEQIP-II, and nineteen Workshop/Training programmes were conducted by the Faculties. Considering the achievement of the project, NPIU has further sanctioned Rs. 10 crores for NIT Agartala.

--- Page 3 ---

Item No. 28.6: To consider the Physical and Financial Statement of the ongoing construction works/projects.

The Committee perused the Physical and Financial Statement of the ongoing construction works/projects and noted that, under the remarks column, for some projects, it has been stated “work is completed” which is not a correct statement. The FC suggested that a redrafted statement with proper justification in the remarks column is to be submitted in the next meeting.

Regarding proposed incoming projects as mentioned on page no 42 of the agenda for 28th FC submitted by the Institute, the Committee recommended only three proposals made in serial no. 3 (Water Treatment Plant), 4 (Upgradation of Internal Roads), and 5 (Lifts) of the List of Incoming projects, on priority. For sanction of funds in respect of these three projects, the Director is requested to write a note to the Chairperson, FC & BoG, NIT Agartala. The Chairperson, FC & BoG, may then write a letter to MHRD for sanction of funds for these three incoming projects.

Other projects may be taken up in a phased manner depending upon the availability of funds.

Item No. 28.7: Outstanding statutory dues upto 31.03.2016.

The Registrar apprised the Committee that there are no statutory outstanding dues of the Institute as on 31.03.2016; the Institute has issued a no dues certificate in this regard. The Committee expressed their satisfaction in this matter.

Item No. 28.8: To consider the proposal of payment of Honorarium to Associate Deans of the Institute.

The Finance Committee noted that the Deputy Secretary, MHRD, vide communication F. N. 33-5/2011-TS.III, dated 05-07-2012, has forwarded the recommendations of the third meeting of the Council of NITs, held on 18-11-2011 in respect of “Special Allowances to Dy. Director, Deans, Chief Warden and Associate Warden in each NIT at par with the IIT system”. In this letter, there is no mention regarding any Special Allowances to Registrar (i/c) and Associate Deans. In this regard, the FC also noted that NIT, Tiruchirappalli, is already paying Special Allowance to Associate Deans.

It was pointed out that due to the increase in students’ strength and consequent increase in faculty strength, the need for the introduction of the posts of Associate Deans was felt by the Institute. The Associate Deans are helping the respective Deans for the proper and speedy disposal of the works on different issues. In this respect, the proposal of granting special allowance @ Rs. 2500/- per month to the Associate Deans was recommended by the Finance Committee. The Committee also advised fixing the number of Associate Deans considering the actual requirement of the Institute.

Item No. 28.9: To consider the proposal of payment of Honorarium to the Registrar (I/c) of the Institute.

It was mentioned that for shouldering higher responsibility, although provision is there as per FRSR for granting allowances, but the same is not applicable for the autonomous bodies. So the proposal for payment of honorarium to the faculty member officiating as Registrar could not be recommended.

--- Page 4 ---

Item No. 28.10.1: To consider work for “Annual maintenance of all buildings of NIT Agartala including Hostels & Quarters during the year 2016-17”.

The Registrar informed the Committee that in NIT Agartala, some buildings are old and their renovation and maintenance are urgently required. The proposal of “Annual maintenance of all buildings of NIT Agartala including Hostels & Quarters during the year 2016-17” was approved by the BWC in its 35th meeting with an estimated cost of Rs. 49.80 lakhs. The Finance Committee after discussion recommended the proposal to BoG for consideration.

Item No. 28.10.2: Employees' Provident Fund (EPF) facilities to all categories of contractual employees of National Institute of Technology, Agartala.

The Committee discussed the issue at length. The Committee recommended that legal advice may be taken in this respect, and the proposal with the legal observations may be forwarded to the Chairperson for consideration.

Item No. 28.10.3: To consider the minutes of the 34th and 35th Building & Works Committee meetings held on 24th August 2015 and 10th February 2016 respectively.

The Registrar apprised the Committee that as per Statutes, only confirmed minutes of the Building & Works Committee are to be placed before FC/BOG. Also, as per the decision of the FC minutes in its 27th meeting, the minutes of 34th BWC were again placed before the 35th BWC with the suggested modification of the FC. The modified minutes of 34th BWC were confirmed by the 35th BWC held on 10th February 2016. Further, minutes of the 35th BWC were confirmed in the 36th BWC meeting held on 28th June 2016.

All agenda items of the 28th FC meeting were circulated among the members before 28th June 2016. So the confirmed minutes of the 34th and 35th BWC were placed before the 28th FC for on-the-table consideration.

The Finance Committee after perusal and discussion on the minutes of 34th and 35th BWC recommended the said two minutes of BWC to the BoG for approval.

The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the Chair.

(Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya) (Prof. Deepak B. Phatak)
Member Secretary, Finance Committee Chairperson
& Registrar Finance Committee & BOG
National Institute of Technology, Agartala National Institute of Technology, Agartala
