--- Page 1 ---

Minutes of the 31st (Special) BoG Meeting
NITA / November 07, 2014

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799046

Minutes of the 31st (Special) Meeting of the Board of Governors

held on November 07, 2014
in the Conference Room of NIT Agartala

The 31st (Special) meeting of the Board of Governors (BoG) of NIT Agartala was held on November 07, 2014 (Friday) at 1:30 p.m. in the Conference Room of NIT Agartala.

The following members were present at the meeting:

(1) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya: Acting Chairperson, BoG & Director, NIT, Agartala.
(2) Shri Ashutosh Jindal: Member, Principal Secretary to the Govt. of Tripura, Dept. of Higher Education.
(3) Prof. A. Srinivasan: Member, Professor, Dept. of Physics, IIT Guwahati (Representative of Director, IIT Guwahati).
(4) Prof. (Mrs.) Uma Bhattacharya: Member, Professor, Department of Computer Science & Tech., IIEST, Shibpur.
(5) Dr. R.P. Sharma: Member, Professor, Civil Engineering Dept., NIT Agartala.
(6) Dr. John Debbarma: Member, Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering Dept., NIT Agartala.
(7) Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti: Secretary, Registrar (i/c), NIT, Agartala

Prof. Gopal Mugeraya, the Acting Chairperson, Board of Governors (BoG), NIT Agartala & Director, NIT Agartala, welcomed all the Members of the BoG, NITA, present at the 31st (Special) meeting of the Board of Governors. The Chairperson also welcomed Shri Ashutosh Jindal, Principal Secretary to the Government of Tripura, Education (Higher) Department, who was attending the BoG meeting of NIT Agartala for the first time, and invited him to participate in the discussion.

Page 1 of 3

--- Page 2 ---

Minutes of the 31st (Special) BoG Meeting
NITA / November 07, 2014

At the outset, the Director, NIT Agartala, informed the meeting that the tenure of Prof. P.N. Singh, Chairperson of the BoG, NIT Agartala, had ended on May 09, 2014, and NIT Agartala had not yet received any communication from MHRD regarding the selection of a new Chairperson or the continuation of Prof. P.N. Singh as Chairperson, BoG, NIT Agartala. However, it was confirmed by the MHRD that communication regarding the appointment of a new Chairperson might be sent by MHRD at any time.

The First Statutes of NIT 2009, vide Section 17(15), states that “In the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the Chairperson by reason of his death, resignation or otherwise, or in the event of the Chairperson being unable to discharge his functions owing to absence, illness, or any other cause, the Director may discharge the functions assigned to the Chairperson under section 16 of the Act.”

As per the provision of the Statute & Act, the Director is discharging the functions of the Chairperson, BoG, NIT Agartala, and presiding over the BoG meeting.

After detailed discussion, the BoG authorized the Director, NITA, to function as Chairperson in the event of the vacancy and authorized the Director to take decisions as per the provision of the NIT Act, 2007, and NIT Statute 2009, including presiding over the Convocation meeting, conferring Degrees to the Degree Recipients in the 7th Convocation of NIT Agartala, signing the Degree Certificates both as the Director and Chairperson, BoG (in the absence of the Chairperson), and any other action as and when required to be taken by the Director in the absence of the Chairperson, BoG.

The BoG also resolved that if formal communication is received from MHRD before the 7th Convocation, then the Chairperson of the BoG, NITA, will preside over the 7th Convocation, sign the Degree Certificates & scroll as the Chairperson, and confer Degrees to the recipients.

The BoG, NIT Agartala, further authorized the Director, NIT Agartala, as per the provision of the Act and Statute, to discharge the function of the Chairperson, BoG, NITA, until the appointment of the new Chairperson, BoG, NITA, for the smooth functioning of the NITA.

The Acting Chairperson, BoG & Director, NIT Agartala, then invited the Registrar (i/c) to initiate a discussion on agenda items.

Page 2 of 3

--- Page 3 ---

Minutes of the 31st (Special) BoG Meeting
NITA / November 07, 2014

Item No. 31.1: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the 14th and 15th Senate meetings of NIT Agartala held on May 09, 2014, and September 26, 2014, respectively.

The BoG approved the minutes of the 14th and 15th Senate meetings of the NIT Agartala held on May 09, 2014, and September 26, 2014, respectively.

Item No. 31.2: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the 16th Senate meeting of NIT Agartala held on November 07, 2014.

The BoG approved the minutes of the 16th Senate meeting of the NIT Agartala held on November 07, 2014.

The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the Chair.

(Sumanta Chakrabarti) (Prof. Gopal Mugeraya)
Secretary, Board of Governors Acting Chairperson, BoG, NIT
Registrar (i/c), NIT Agartala Agartala & Director, NIT Agartala

Page 3 of 3
