--- Page 1 ---

Minutes/ 32nd BOG/ NITA
January 17, 2015

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799046

Minutes of the 32nd Meeting of the
Board of Governors
held on January 17, 2015
At Conference Hall of NIT Agartala

The 32nd meeting of the Board of Governors of the National Institute of Technology Agartala was held on January 17, 2015 at 12:30 pm in the Conference Hall of NIT, Agartala.

The following members were present in the meeting:

(1) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak : Chairperson, BoG of NIT Agartala
(2) Prof. P.N. Singh : Invitee Member, Former Chairperson, BoG of NIT Agartala.
(3) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya : Member, Director of NIT, Agartala
(4) Shri Ashutosh Jindal : Member, Principal Secretary to the Govt. of Tripura, Dept. of Higher Education.
(5) Shri Sanjeev Kumar Sharma : Director (NITs), MHRD, Govt. of India (Representative of Special Secretary/Additional Secretary/ Joint Secretary dealing with Technical Education, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD)
(6) Shri Satpal Sharma : Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India, (Representative of Financial Advisor, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD, Govt. of India).
(7) Prof. A. Srinivasan : Professor, Dept. of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati (nominee of the Director, IIT Guwahati).
(8) Shri Alok Roy Choudhury : Member, Additional Chief Engineer, PWD, Govt. of Tripura.
(9) Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma : Member, Professor, Civil Engg. Dept., NIT, Agartala.
(10) Dr. John Debbarma : Member, Asst. Professor, ME Dept, NIT Agartala.
(11) Shri Sumanta Chakrabarti : Secretary, Registrar (i/c), NIT, Agartala

At the outset, Prof. Gopal Mugeraya, Director, NIT Agartala, introduced Prof. Deepak B Phatak, the new Chairperson, NIT Agartala to all the Members of the Board of Governors, NIT Agartala.

--- Page 2 ---

Minutes/32nd BOG/ NITA
January 17, 2015

Prof. P.N. Singh, Invitee Member & Immediate Past Chairperson of Board of Governors, NIT Agartala, thanked all the Members of the Board of Governors for actively supporting him towards building the Institute and hoped NIT Agartala will move towards its goal to become one of the Top Institutes of the country.

Prof. Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson, Board of Governors, NIT Agartala, presided over the meeting. Welcoming all the Members of the Board of Governors and initiating the discussion, the Chairperson thanked all the previous Members of the Board of Governors(BoG) and it was decided that a letter of appreciation will be sent to all the previous Members of the Board of Governors of NIT Agartala for their outstanding contribution towards building of NIT Agartala.

The Chairperson invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussions on Agenda items.

Item No. 32.1: Confirmation of the Minutes of 30th and 31st (Special) Board of Governors Meeting of NIT Agartala.

The minutes of the 30th and 31st (Special) Meeting of the Board of Governors, held on May 02, 2014 and November 07, 2014, were circulated among the Members. No comments/views/suggestions were received from the Members of BoG. The minutes of 30th and 31st (Special) Board of Governors meeting were confirmed.

Item No. 32.2: Action taken on the decision of the 30th and 31st (Special) Board of Governors meeting held on May 02, 2014 and November 07, 2014 respectively at NIT Agartala.

The Board of Governors noted the action taken report on the decisions of the 30th BoG and 31st (Special) BoG meetings.

Item No. 32.3: To consider the abroad visit by the faculty members under the CPDA and TEQIP-II.

The BoG noted the reporting and approved the abroad visit by the faculty members under the CPDA and TEQIP-II for attending different Conference/Symposium etc.

--- Page 3 ---

Minutes/ 32nd BOG/ NITA
January 17, 2015

Item No. 32.4: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 32nd Building & Works Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.

The Board of Governors approved the recommendations of the minutes of 32nd Building & Works Committee meeting of NIT Agartala held on September 26, 2014 and noted the observations of 25th Finance Committee Meeting held on January 17, 2015 on this issue.

Item No. 32.5: To consider the Audit Report of the accounts of the Institute for the year 2013-14.

The Board of Governors perused and approved the Audit Report of the accounts of the Institute for the financial year 2013-14 forwarded by the Indian Audit & Accounts Department, Office of the Accountant General (Audit), Tripura. The Board of Governors advised that an Action Taken Report in consultation with the internal auditor of NIT Agartala on the observations of the Audit Report prepared by Indian Audit and Accounts Department, Office of the Accountant General (Audit), Tripura to be placed before the Board of Governors.

The Board of Governors advised to form an Investment Committee having at least one outside member from other Central Government Educational Institutes to guide and suggest about the modalities of investment for better return and all other related issues in regard to investment to be made by NIT Agartala.

Item No. 32.6: To consider the Annual Report for the year 2013-14.

The Board of Governors perused and approved the Annual Accounts of the Institute for the financial year 2013-14 and recommended to submit it to the MHRD, Government of India.

Item No. 32.7: To consider the extension of official tenure of Prof. (Dr.) R. P. Sharma as the Dean (Academic) of NIT Agartala.

The Board of Governors noted and approved the extension of one more year of official tenure of Prof. R. P. Sharma as Dean (Academic) of NIT Agartala till July 28, 2015.

--- Page 4 ---

Minutes/ 32nd BOG/NITA
January 17, 2015

Item No. 32.8: To consider the report of Fact Finding Committee on the incident of December 04, 2013 due to sad demise of Rahul Kumar, a 2nd year student of ECE Department, NIT Agartala.

The Board of Governors noted the recommendations of the Fact Finding Committee and suggested to send the Fact Finding Committee Report to MHRD. An Action Taken Report on the Fact Finding Committee Report may be placed to the Board of Governors. The Board of Governors appreciated the efforts of all the Committee Members of Fact Finding Committee.

Item No. 32.9: Providing of increment due to enhancement of Grade Pay to the up-graded faculty members from GP Rs. 6000/- to Rs. 7000/-.

The Board of Governors noted the report.

Item No. 32.10: To consider modification in the existing rules for allotment of residential accommodation at campus of NIT Agartala.

The Board of Governors approved the proposal and ratified the decisions taken.

Item No. 32.11: Consideration and approval of 100% waving of tuition fee for the SC/ST students studying in M.Tech, Dual degree and Ph.D programme at NIT Agartala.

The Board of Governors suggested to refer the matter to MHRD.

Item No. 32.12: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of 25th Finance Committee meeting of NIT Agartala, held on January 17, 2015.

The Board of Governors approved the recommendations of the minutes of 25th Finance Committee meeting of NIT Agartala held on January 17, 2015.

--- Page 5 ---

Minutes/ 32nd BOG/ NITA
January 17, 2015

Item No. 32.13: Security Threat in NIT Agartala and measure thereof.

All Members of the Board of Governors appreciated the concerns and suggested to form an independent Committee with expert member(s) to submit a report on this matter. The Board of Governors authorized the Chairperson to take appropriate decision on this matter.

Item No. 32.14: To establish Industry-Academy Partnership with Bosch.

The Board of Governors appreciated the initiative and approved the proposal. BoG recommended that a Committee may be formed with at least one External Member from other Institute where such programme already executed. This Committee will do the cost benefit analysis, make recommendations and submit the report to the Director. BoG authorised the Chairperson to take appropriate necessary steps on this matter.

Item No. 32.15: Present Status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

The Board of Governors noted the present status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

Item No. 32.16: Any other item with permission of the Chair.

Item No. 32.16.1: Service matter of Dr. Umesh Mishra, Professor, Civil Engineering Department, NIT Agartala.

After detailed discussions on concealment of facts and submission of false declaration by Dr. Umesh Mishra while applying for the post of Professor in the Civil Engineering Department at NIT Agartala, the Board of Governors resolved to follow due procedure as per CCS(CCA) Rules 1965 to initiate disciplinary proceedings immediately under Rule 14 for imposition of major penalty.

The Board of Governors also asked the Director to place his recommendation expeditiously on the pending disciplinary issues against Dr. Umesh Mishra under Rule 16 of CCS(CCA) Rules, 1965.

--- Page 6 ---

Minutes/ 32nd BOG/ NITA
January 17, 2015

Item No. 32.16.2: To consider the estimate for Construction of Central Lecture Hall Complex having 27 Class Rooms at NIT Agartala at a cost of Rs.70,52,95,723.00.

The Board of Governors observed that the proposal in principle was already approved by the Board of Governors in its 29th meeting held on February 27, 2014 with an approximate cost of Rs.70.53 Crores and suggested to place detailed proposal with estimate to Building & Works Committee. BoG authorised the Chairperson to take appropriate necessary steps for early implementation of this project as there is shortage of lecture classrooms in NIT Agartala due to increase in intake in UG and PG programme. It was further suggested by the Board of Governors that adequate provision is to be made so that the Lecture Hall could cater the future requirements taking into consideration evolving pedagogy and advance technology in teaching methodology.

Item No. 32.16.3: Opening of a new M. Tech. course on Construction Technology & Management in the Civil Engineering Department of NITA.

The Board of Governors approved the proposal and authorized the Director, NIT Agartala to take appropriate further course of action.

Item No. 32.16.4: Extension of Contractual Services of Prof. Bidyut Kumar Bhattacharyya, Electrical Engineering Dept, NIT Agartala.

The Board of Governors considered the letter of the Head of the Department of Electrical Engineering regarding contractual appointment of Prof. Bidyut Kumar Bhattacharyya. As the Institute is actively involved in research activities and Prof. Bhattacharyya being an Expert Faculty, his services in guiding the students in research activities can be more beneficially availed by the institute, if his contractual appointment is made for longer duration. Since, Prof. Bhattacharyya has a few Patents to his credit and considering that PhD students normally takes three(3) years or more to complete the work, the Board of Governors approved that a fresh three(3) year contractual appointment on the pay scale of Rs. 37,000-67,000, AGP Rs. 10,000 plus DA and other admissible allowances and protecting his present basic pay may be given to Prof. Bidyut Kumar Bhattacharyya in the Electrical Engineering Department subject to the condition that he is not entitled for any permanency or related benefits in future.

--- Page 7 ---

Minutes/ 32nd BOG/ NITA
January 17, 2015

Item No. 32.16.5: To consider promotion for Non-Teaching Group-C employees who are serving in NIT Agartala for a pretty long period.

The Board of Governors did not approve the proposal.

Item No. 32.16.6: To consider the Higher Grade Pay in respect of 6 (Six) nos. of Group-C Non-Teaching employee of NIT Agartala considering the MHRD letter vide No. F.23-18/ 2008-TS.II, dated 17-03-2010.

The Board of Governors Suggested to refer the matter to MHRD with justifications.

Item No. 32.16.7: Empanelment of Health Care Institutes for the regular employees of NIT Agartala.

The Board of Governors recommends to form a Committee headed by Prof. R.P. Sharma, Member, Board of Governors, NIT Agartala to frame a Medical Policy for NIT Agartala. This Committee is also to look after the issue of empanelment of Health Care Establishments, issues and submit the report to the Director, NIT Agartala at the earliest.

Item No. 32.16.8: W. P. (C) 97 of 2013 filed by Dr. Prasun Chakraborti and 3 others and the Judgment passed by the Hon’ble High Court of Tripura.

The Board of Governors perused the Judgement dated January 12, 2015 of the Hon’ble High Court of Tripura in W.P.(C) 97 of 2013 filed by Dr. Prasun Chakraborti and three (3) others. In view of the directions of the Hon'ble High Court of Tripura and advice of the Asst. Solicitor General, Government of India, High Court of Tripura, dated 16.01.2015 the Board of Governors recommends that due process be followed for examination of applications of the 4 petitioners through a Selection Committee as stipulated for Career Advancement Scheme (CAS). Since the Board of Governors may not meet before the stipulated dead line set by the Hon'ble High Court of Tripura to resolve this matter, the Selection Committee report may be approved by the Chairperson of the Board of Governors and later ratified by the Board of Governors. The results of the selection may be communicated to the petitioners before deadline set by the Hon’ble High Court of Tripura.

--- Page 8 ---

Minutes/ 32nd BOG/NITA
January 17, 2015

Item No.32.16.9: PIRD Complaint against Prof. Probir Kumar Bose Ex-Director of NIT Agartala.

The Chairperson, Board of Governors, placed before the Board an Office Memorandum received from the Central Vigilance Commission which was forwarded by the MHRD, Government of India, requesting to furnish his point-wise comments/report on complain against Prof. Probir Kumar Bose, Ex-Director of NIT Agartala.

The Board of Governors resolved to constitute a Fact Finding Committee under the Chairmanship of Prof. A. Srinivasan, Member, Board of Governors, NITA and authorized him to co-opt other members as required to prepare the report on the complaint raised and submit the same to the Chairperson, Board of Governors. The Board of Governors also asked the Director to provide all necessary support, place documents/files as and when required by the Committee.

The meeting ended with the vote of thanks to the Chair.

(Sumanta Chakrabarti) (Prof. D. B. Phatak)
Secretary, Board of Governors Chairperson, Board of Governors
& Registrar (I/C), NIT Agartala NIT Agartala
