--- Page 1 ---

Minutes of the 37th BOG
July 01, 2016/ NITA

WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799046

Minutes of the 37th Meeting of the Board of Governors held on July 01, 2016, at the Conference Hall of NIT Transit House, New Delhi.

The 37th meeting of the Board of Governors of the National Institute of Technology Agartala was held on July 01, 2016, at 2:00 pm in the Conference Hall of NIT Transit House, New Delhi.

The following members were present at the meeting:

(1) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak: Chairperson, BoG of NIT Agartala
(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya: Member, Director of NIT, Agartala
(3) Shri Satpal Sharma: Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India (Representative of Joint Secretary & Financial Advisor, IFD, MHRD, Govt. of India)
(4) Shri Alok Roy Choudhury: Member, Chief Engineer, PWD, Government of Tripura, Agartala
(5) Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma: Member, Professor, Civil Engg. Dept. NIT, Agartala
(6) Dr. John Debbarma: Member, Asst. Professor, ME Dept., NIT Agartala
(7) Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya: Secretary, Registrar (i/c), NIT, Agartala

Prof. A. Srinivasan, Professor, Dept. of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati; Prof. (Mrs.) Uma Bhattacharya, Professor, Dept. of Computer Science & Technology, HEST, Shibpur, West Bengal; the Special Secretary/ Addl. Secretary/ Joint Secretary (TE), MHRD, Govt. of India; and the Secretary to the Government of Tripura, Dept. of Higher Education, Agartala, could not attend the meeting.

Prof. Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson, Board of Governors of NIT, Agartala, presided over the meeting and welcomed all members of the Board of Governors, thanking them for attending.

Prof. Gopal Mugaraya, Director of NIT, Agartala, presented a brief overview of the Institute's activities for the information of the members present. He also presented a brief report regarding his visit to China with the Hon'ble President of India, which the BOG noted with appreciation.

Page 1 of 7

--- Page 2 ---

Minutes/ 37th BOG
July 01, 2016/ NITA

The Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussions on the agenda items.

Item No. 37.1: Confirmation of the draft Minutes of the 36th Board of Governors Meeting of NIT Agartala.

The modified minutes of the 36th Board of Governors, incorporating the comments of Shri S. P. Goyal, Joint Secretary (NITs & DL), Department of Higher Education, MHRD, Govt. of India, were confirmed.

Item No. 37.2: Actions taken on the Decisions of the 34th and 35th BOG meetings of NIT, Agartala held on September 24, 2015, and November 14, 2015, respectively.

The actions taken on the decisions of the 34th and 35th meetings of the Board of Governors, NIT, Agartala, were noted.

Item No. 37.3: Remittance of Annual subscription for the year 2014-15 & 2015-16 to the Association of Indian Universities, New Delhi.

The BOG noted that NIT systems are as per statutory provisions in the NITSER Act and that the payment of Annual Subscriptions to the Association of Indian Universities is not required.

Item No. 37.4: To ratify the decision taken by the Chairperson, BoG, regarding the engagement of Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya as Registrar (i/c).

The Board ratified the decision already taken by the Chairperson, BoG, to assign the work of Registrar (i/c) to Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya, Associate Professor, Mathematics Department, NIT Agartala, until further orders.

The Board noted that a Writ Petition was filed by Shri Arjun Kr. Dey (WP- No. 283 of 2015) in the High Court of Tripura challenging the recruitment rules and the advertisement issued by NIT Agartala in May 2015. The Hon’ble Single Judge of the High Court of Tripura dismissed the Writ Petition on 31-03-2016. Shri Arjun Kr. Dey again filed a Writ Appeal on 15-04-2016 before the Division Bench, challenging the order of the Hon’ble Single Judge. The Division Bench has not granted any stay order against the Judgment of the Hon’ble Single Judge but indicated that the appointment of Registrar will be subject to the outcome of the Writ Appeal. The Board felt that since there is no stay order now, NIT Agartala should complete the recruitment process for the appointment of a regular Registrar and issue an appointment letter, after approval from its Chairperson, with the condition that the appointment will be subject to the outcome of the Writ Appeal in the High Court of Tripura.

The decisions of the Board in paras 1 & 2 above are also confirmed for implementation since the institute cannot function without a Registrar or Registrar (i/c).

Item No. 37.5: Appointment of Regular Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) at NIT, Agartala.

The Board noted that the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Govt. of India, vide its letter F.No.32-19/2015-TS-III dated 19th January 2016, has desired that all NITs may appoint

Page 2 of 7

--- Page 3 ---

Minutes/ 37th BOG
July 01, 2016/ NITA

a regular CVO. The Board felt that NIT, Agartala will take further action in this regard if other NITs are appointing full-time CVOs.

In the meantime, Dr. Paritiosh Bhattacharya, Associate Professor, NIT Agartala, who is already carrying out the work of Chief Vigilance Officer of NIT Agartala, will continue with his present assignment until further orders. He will get support from the Legal Cell of NIT, Agartala, as and when required.

Item No. 37.6: To consider the proposal of payment of Honorarium to Associate Deans and Registrar (i/c) of the Institute.

The Board noted that the Deputy Secretary, MHRD, vide communication F. N. 33-6/2011-TS.10, dated 05-07-2012, has forwarded the recommendations of the third meeting of the Council of NITs, held on 18-11-2011, regarding “Special Allowances to Dy. Director, Deans, Chief Warden, and Associate Warden in each NIT at par with the IIT system.” This letter does not mention any Special Allowances to Registrar (i/c) and Associate Deans. The Board also noted that NIT, Tiruchirappalli, is already paying Special Allowances to Registrar (i/c) and Associate Deans.

After discussion, the Board felt that Special Allowance should also be given to Associate Deans @ Rs. 2500 per month. The Board also felt that emphasis should be given to recruit a full-time Registrar and that no Special Allowance for Registrar (i/c) should be considered.

Item No. 37.7: To initiate actions for the constitution of a Tribunal of Arbitration under Section 29 of the NITSER Act.

The Board deferred the proposal for the constitution of a Tribunal of Arbitration for NIT, Agartala.

Item No. 37.8: General Provident Fund Rules for NITA employees.

The Board felt that the draft GPF Rules are required to be vetted by the Govt. of India (Finance and Legal Sections) and NIT, Agartala, should send a reminder to MHRD for concurrence. This decision of the Board is also confirmed for implementation since the issue has been pending for several months and should not wait for confirmation of this decision at the next meeting of the BOG.

Item No. 37.9: Employees Provident Fund (EPF) facilities to all categories of contractual employees of the National Institute of Technology, Agartala.

The Committee discussed the issue at length and felt that the rate of EPF contribution for employees getting pay above Rs. 15,000 may be calculated based on a monthly consolidated pay of Rs. 15,000 only. The Committee recommended that legal advice be taken in this respect and the proposal with the legal observations may be forwarded to the Chairperson for consideration. This decision of the Board is also confirmed for implementation since the issue has been pending for several months and should not wait for confirmation of this decision at the next meeting of the BOG.

Page 3 of 7

--- Page 4 ---

Minutes/ 37th BOG
July 01, 2016/ NITA

Item No. 37.10: To consider various issues pertaining to the ongoing TEQIP-II program at NIT Agartala.

A. Request for permission to organize in-house conferences, training, and seminars, etc., under TEQIP-II:

The Board noted the following:

“The Memorandum vide F.NITA.2(265-Estt)/08/13063-70 dated 7 March 2013 had been issued with the approval of the BOG in its 24th BOG, dated 25th August 2012, and 25th BOG, dated 18th November 2012. As per the memorandum, workshops organized at NIT Agartala can be sponsored jointly by the TEQIP-II fund with other funding agencies. However, the updated TEQIP-II Project Implementation Plan (PIP) (version June 2015) permitted the organization of conferences on R&D topics/themes, subject area training programs, pedagogical training, seminars, conferences, and Continuing Education Programmes (CEP) in addition to workshops with funds from TEQIP-II. The disbursement of funds from TEQIP-II for organizing workshops at NITA had already been approved by the BoG.”

The Board permitted consideration of the proposal for organizing conferences on R&D topics/themes, subject area training programs, pedagogical training, seminars, conferences, and Continuing Education Programmes (CEP) at NITA, utilizing the fund of TEQIP-II.

B. Request for permission to provide an honorarium of Rs. 5000 to the Invitee Professors from other NITs and Universities/ Institutions for their Lectures:

The Board noted the following information and proposal:

“As per the email from the National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU) dated 20th March 2014, it was informed that TEQIP-II institutions are encouraged to invite Professors from IITs for conducting sessions/ programs in the institute (NITA) and that when invited, such Professors (from IIT) be provided with an honorarium (besides TA/DA as applicable) of Rs. 5000 (Rupees five thousand only) per day. Further, NPIU was requested on 6th April 2016 by NITA to clarify the provision of honorarium for the Invitee Professors from NITs and other Universities/ Institutions. In clarification, NPIU informed that the faculty members/ experts from other institutions may be paid honorarium as per the institute's prevalent rules/ guidelines. If such rules/ guidelines are not in place, these need to be framed and implemented with the concurrence of the BoG.”

The BoG decided to allow the payment of Rs. 5000 (Rupees five thousand only) per day as an honorarium (besides TA/DA as applicable) to Invitee Professors from IITs and also to the Invitee Professors from NITs and other Universities/ Institutions for their lectures from the TEQIP-II Fund.

C. Screening Committee for TEQIP-II International Travel:

The Board noted the following system in the TEQIP Revised International Travel Guidelines for availing international travel under TEQIP:

o “The project Institution meeting the eligibility criteria shall constitute an internal scrutiny committee, consisting of senior faculty members. The internal scrutiny

Page 4 of 7

--- Page 5 ---

Minutes/ 37th BOG
July 01, 2016/ NITA

committee shall scrutinize the received proposal in a prescribed format and submit the report to the Institutional TEQIP Unit, along with the proposals.

o The TEQIP Unit will scrutinize the received proposal as per the checklist and submit the proposal with its observations and remarks of internal scrutiny committee to the “Screening Committee” (A Screening Committee be constituted by the BOG of the institute consisting of senior external experts).

o The Screening Committee shall evaluate the proposal as per the criteria and advise the Director of the institution. If deemed necessary, the screening committee may seek an opinion from external theme experts before arriving at a conclusion.

o The Director, NIT Agartala shall forward the proposal to the BOG with its remarks along with the remarks of the Screening Committee.

o The BoG will accord approval for the proposal based on the report of the Screening Committee and the recommendation of the Director of the Institute.

o The Institute will send the proposal with the remarks of the BoG to the NPIU for further processing. NPIU shall forward the proposal to the MHRD for approval. The decision of the MHRD will be communicated to the concerned CFI by NPIU.”

The BOG authorized the Director of the Institute to constitute a “Screening Committee (with external Experts)” for scrutinizing TEQIP-II International Travel proposals. The BOG also felt that the process mentioned above is not simple and time-consuming. The TEQIP Unit of NIT, Agartala, may write a letter to the MHRD indicating the feelings of the members of the BOG regarding the lengthy process, with a request to simplify it.

Item No. 37.11: To receive information regarding the status of the up-gradation of the internal main road with both-side footpath including side drain, electric post, bus stop, sitting arrangement at a certain interval & conduit from main gate-1 to auxiliary gate-2 via housing and boys' hostel & auxiliary gate-2 to main gate-1 and auditorium to existing play ground (old) at NIT, Agartala and to ratify the decision taken by the Chairperson, BOG.

The BOG noted the following information/status and also ratified the decision of the Chairman, BoG, for administrative approval already accorded, for the open tendering process:

“The existing roads are without footpaths (single lane standard) having a 3.75 m average width, and the condition of the roads is not good to cater to the present traffic volume. The roads connecting the NITA Administrative Building, Auditorium, Workshop, CRF Building, Hospital, all the Boy’s and Girl’s Hostels, Guest House, Director’s Bungalow, Market, Sports Complex, Play Ground, Quarters, etc., need up-gradation. Once the roads are widened from 3.75 m width (existing) to 7.00 m width (double lane standard) with footpaths, the traffic volume will be well accommodated in the future. As per guidance by the Chairman, BOG, to the members of BWC in a meeting held by him on 08-01-2016 at NIT, Agartala, the BWC at its 35th meeting held on 10-02-2016, suggested starting the work on priority, based on “Open Tendering” as per “Three Bid System/ Three Envelope System,” in accordance with GFR and CPWD processes. After the BWC decision, administrative approval was sought from the Chairman, BOG, and the approval for the “Open Tendering Process” was accorded by the Chairman, BOG, on 29.04.2016, considering

Page 5 of 7

--- Page 6 ---

Minutes/ 37th BOG
July 01, 2016/ NITA

But agenda items of 28th FC meeting was circulated among the members before 28th June 2016. So the confirmed minutes of 34th and 35th BWC was placed before the 37th Board of Governors meeting, as additional agenda for consideration and approval.

The Board accepted the recommendations of the 34th and 35th BWC meetings.

Item No. 37.12.4: To consider the fees to be paid by the students taking admission starting from the academic year 2016-17.

The BOG noted that the MHRD, Govt. of India, vide its letter No. 33-4/2014-TS.II dated 24th June 2016, has conveyed the decision of the NITSER Council for the revision of Tuition Fees from Rs. 70,000 to Rs. 125,000 per student per annum for the students taking admission starting from the academic year 2016-17 from the Academic Year 2016-17, subject to some concessions / rebates to socially and economically backward students, in accordance with the provisions under Section 32(2) (b) of the NITSER Act and First Statutes of NITs under Section 37(i). The BOG also noted that the students currently studying / got admitted prior to academic session 2016-17 would continue to pay the existing rates. Although it is not mentioned in the MHRD letter that this Fee enhancement is only for B.Tech. students, the BOG observed that the said communication from the MHRD is applicable in respect of B.Tech. students only.

The BOG decided to keep the existing Fees for all other programs except for B.Tech.

This decision of the Board is also confirmed for implementation since the process of fee collection cannot be paused for confirmation of this decision at the next meeting of the BOG.

The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the Chair.

(Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya) (Prof. Deepak B. Phatak)
Secretary Chairperson
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar (i/c), NIT Agartala NIT Agartala

Page 7 of 7
