--- Page 1 ---

38th BOG Minutes
November 11, 2016/ NITA

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799046

Minutes of the 38th Meeting of the
Board of Governors
held on November 11, 2016
At Conference Hall of International Guest House, NIT Agartala, Tripura

The 38th meeting of the Board of Governors of the National Institute of Technology Agartala was held on November 11, 2016, at 02:30 pm in the Conference Hall of International Guest House, NIT Agartala, Tripura.

The following members were present at the meeting:

(1) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak: Chairperson, BoG of NIT Agartala.
(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya: Member, Director of NIT, Agartala.
(3) Shri Sushil Kumar: Principal Secretary to the Government of Tripura, Dept. of Higher Education, School Education etc., Agartala, Tripura.
(4) Shri K. Rajan: Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India (Representative of Special Secretary / Additional Secretary / Joint Secretary dealing with Technical Education, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD).
(5) Shri Alok Roy Choudhury: Member, Addl. Chief Engineer, PWD, Government of Tripura, Agartala.
(6) Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma: Member, Professor, Civil Engg. Dept., NIT, Agartala.
(7) Dr. John Deb Barma: Member, Asst. Professor, ME Dept., NIT Agartala.
(8) Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya: Secretary, BoG, Registrar (i/c), NIT Agartala.

The Financial Advisor, Department of Higher Education, MHRD, Govt. of India; Prof. Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay, Director, Indian Statistical Institute, Machine Intelligence Unit, Kolkata; Prof. Vijayalakshmi Ravindranath, Chairperson, Centre for Neuroscience, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore; and Prof. A. Srinivasan, Professor, Dept. of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati (nominee of the Director, IIT Guwahati) could not attend the meeting.

Prof. Deepak B. Phatak, Chairperson, Board of Governors, NIT Agartala, presided over the meeting and welcomed all the Members of the Board of Governors. He specially thanked the two new members, Shri Sushil Kumar, Principal Secretary to the Govt. of Tripura, Dept. of Higher Education & Shri K. Rajan, Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India, and requested their support for the development of the Institute.

Page 1 of 3

--- Page 2 ---

38th BOG Minutes
November 11, 2016/ NITA

The Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate discussions on Agenda items.

The Director, Prof. Gopal Mugeraya, initiated the discussion. He informed the members that this is a special meeting of BoG, where only the issues pertaining to the 9th Convocation Ceremony of the Institute, to be held on 12th November 2016, are being considered. The minutes of previous Senate meetings viz. 20th and 21st meetings respectively held on 31st March 2016 and 23rd September 2016, together with the minutes of the 22nd Senate meeting held today i.e., 11th November 2016, are placed for discussion.

The Director then requested the Registrar to initiate discussion of Agenda points.

Item No. 38.1: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the 20th Senate meeting of NIT Agartala held on 31st March 2016.

The minutes of the 20th Senate meeting of NIT Agartala held on 31st March 2016, was placed first for discussion. During discussion, the MHRD representative Mr. K. Rajan pointed out that Item Nos. S/20/15, S/20/17 and S/20/18 of the 20th Senate Meeting involve financial matters, so it is better to route these items through FC (Finance Committee). The BoG members accepted the proposal, and except for these three items, the minutes of the 20th Senate meeting was approved and confirmed.

Item No. 38.2: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the 21st Senate meeting of NIT Agartala held on 23rd September 2016.

During discussion, considering the research atmosphere prevailing in the Institute, on Item No. S/21/03 regarding consideration and ratification of results of Ph. D. in Engineering, Science and Humanities & Social Science for awarding Ph. D. Degrees in the 9th Convocation, the Chairman proposed that the Institute may henceforth award a gold medal for the best Ph.D. thesis submitted by Scholars of the Institute to give impetus to Scholars and Guides for quality research work.

In this respect, the Govt. of Tripura representative Shri Sushil Kumar suggested that one more gold medal may be instituted for innovative research of high standard performed by passed-out students, and works published in reputed journals. The Chairperson, BoG, further added that the medal may be awarded jointly by NIT Agartala Alumni and the Institute. Both the proposals may be placed before the next Senate for consideration.

Regarding the results of the passed-out students, the members expressed their satisfaction.

While discussing item No. S/21/02/A, the Director pointed out that due to extreme urgent work pressure, Prof. Ashoke Mishra, former Director IIT Bombay, could not accept the Institute’s proposal of adorning the 9th Convocation as Chief Guest. Then, the Institute requested the eminent educationist Prof. Sandeep Sancheti, President, Manipal University Jaipur, to grace the 9th Convocation as Chief Guest. Prof. Sancheti has kindly consented to the same. The Director requested the BoG to approve this change to the minutes of the 21st Senate meeting against Agenda Item No. S/21/02/A.

After discussion, the minutes of the 21st Senate meeting of NIT Agartala, held on 23rd September 2016, was approved and confirmed.

Page 2 of 3

--- Page 3 ---

38th BOG Minutes
November 11, 2016/ NITA

Item No. 38.3: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the 22nd Senate meeting of NIT Agartala held on 11th November 2016.

The minutes of the 22nd Senate meeting of NIT Agartala held on 11th November 2016, which was placed before the Board of Governors meeting on the table, was approved and confirmed. In the ensuing 9th Convocation of NIT Agartala, to be held on 12th November 2016, the Institute, with the recommendation of the Senate, proposed awarding Ph.D. Degrees to 27 eligible Scholars, B. Tech. degrees to 646, M. Tech degrees to 243, MCA degrees to 32, M. Sc. degrees to 20 successful students. Also, the Institute will award Gold Medals to the Institute toppers of UG & PG programs and Gold Plated Silver medals to other Branch toppers in each UG & PG program as detailed in Agenda Item Nos. S/21/03, S/21/04 and S/22/02.

As per the recommendation of the 22nd Senate meeting under Item No. S/22/02, the Board of Governors decided and confirmed to confer the degree of Doctor of Engineering (Honoris Causa) to Shri Tathagata Roy for his outstanding contribution as an Eminent Professor in the field of Engineering and Education in the 9th Convocation of this Institute.

The Board of Governors also approved and confirmed the recommendation of the 22nd Senate meeting under Item No. S/22/02, to confer the degree of Doctor of Letters (Honoris Causa) to Padma Shri Nana Gajanan Patekar for his outstanding contribution in the field of Arts, Filmography and Societal commitment in the 9th Convocation of this Institute.

Item No. 38.4: Any other item with permission of the Chair.

The Director informed the Board that the Institute is going to sign three MoUs with ONGC Tripura Asset, NEPCO, and the eminent private organization i-Built, approved by the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), for mutual benefit in the presence of the President of India on the occasion of the meet of Chairpersons and Directors of IITs and NITs, scheduled to be held on 16th – 17th November 2016, at Rashtrapati Bhavan, New Delhi.

The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the Chair.

(Dr. D. Bhattacharya) (Prof. D. B. Phatak)
Secretary Chairperson
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar (i/c), NIT Agartala NIT Agartala

Page 3 of 3
