--- Page 1 ---

39th BOG Meeting Minutes - March 24, 2017/ NITA

AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799046

Minutes of the 39th Meeting of the Board of Governors held on March 24, 2017

At International Guest House, NIT Agartala

The 39th meeting of the Board of Governors of the NIT, Agartala, was held on March 24, 2017, at 12:30 pm in the meeting room of the International Guest House at NIT, Agartala.

The following members were present in the meeting:

(1) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak: Chairperson, BoG of NIT Agartala
(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraya: Director of NIT, Agartala
(3) Shri Sushil Kumar: Principal Secretary to the Government of Tripura, Dept. of Higher Education, School Education etc., Agartala, Tripura.
(4) Shri K. Rajan: Under Secretary, MHRD, Govt. of India (Representative of Special Secretary / Additional Secretary / Joint Secretary dealing with Technical Education, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD).
(5) Shri Alok Roy Choudhury: Chief Engineer, PWD, Government of Tripura, Agartala.
(6) Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma: Professor, Civil Engg. Dept., NIT, Agartala.
(7) Dr. John Debbarma: Asst. Professor, ME Dept., NIT Agartala.
(8) Dr. Debasish Bhattacharya: Secretary, Registrar (i/c), NIT, Agartala

Prof. (Dr.) D.B. Pathak, Chairperson, Board of Governors of NIT, Agartala, presided over the meeting and welcomed all the members present. The Chairperson then invited the Director and the Registrar to initiate the discussions on agenda items.

The Final Minutes were confirmed by the Board in its 40th Meeting held on June 28, 2017, in the Conference Room, Tripura Bhawan, New Delhi, in which the following members were present:

(1) Prof. Deepak B. Phatak: Chairperson, BoG of NIT Agartala
(2) Prof. Gopal Mugeraye: Director of NIT, Agartala
(3) Shri A.K. Singh: Under Secretary (TS-ILD, MHRD, Govt. of India

--- Page 2 ---

39th BOG Meeting Minutes
March 24, 2017/ NITA

(4) Shri D. K. Singh: Under Secretary (IFD), MHRD, Govt. of India (Representative of FA, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD).
(5) Shri Alok Roy Choudhury: Addl. Chief Engineer, PWD, Government of Tripura, Agartala.
(6) Prof. Richi Prasad Sharma: Professor, Civil Engg. Dept., NIT, Agartala.
(7) Dr. John Debbarma: Asst. Professor, ME Dept., NIT Agartala.
(8) Prof. Perumal! Alagarsamy: Nominee of Director, IIT, Guwahati
(9) Dr. Govind Bhargava: Secretary, Registrar, NIT, Agartala

The Confirmed Minutes are given below:

Item No. 39.1: Presentation by the Director on Academic and Administrative Issues.

The Director made a brief presentation on some academic and administrative issues in respect of NIT, Agartala, and the BOG received the information.

The Director specially requested the members of the BOG to note that NIT, Agartala, during the last 3 years, has made considerable progress on academic matters with improvement in publication of papers, filing of patents, revision of syllabi, and overall improvements of academic standards. He also specifically mentioned that as per National ranking during the year 2016, NIT, Agartala, is No. 51 among 100 best Institutions in the Country and No. 13 among all NITs.

Item No. 39.2: Confirmation of the draft Minutes of the 37th Board of Governors Meeting of NIT Agartala.

The BOG confirmed the Minutes of the 37th meeting of BOG held on July 1, 2016.

Item No. 39.3: Actions taken on the Decisions of the 36th and 38th BOG meetings of NIT, Agartala held on December 05, 2015, and November 11, 2016, respectively.

The BOG noted various actions taken by NIT, Agartala.

Item No. 39.4: To consider the recommendations of the Selection Committee for appointment of Registrar at NIT, Agartala.

The Board noted that the Writ Petition (WP) in Single Bench and Writ Appeal (WA) in Division Bench in the High Court of Tripura, filed by one candidate who applied for the post of Registrar, were both dismissed by the High Court of Tripura, accepting the Advertisement for Recruitment of Registrar and Method of Recruitment mentioned in

--- Page 3 ---

39th BOG Meeting Minutes
March 24, 2017/ NITA

Advertisement/ relevant papers of Recruitment Process. In the observations of Court Order, the Court accepted the policy decision taken by NITSER Council in exercise of absolute power of the Council under Section 32 (2) (b) of NITSER Act.

Accordingly, after opening the sealed envelope, the BOG accepted the recommendations of the Selection Committee for the appointment of Shri Govind Bhargava, as a full-time Registrar on a regular basis as per the method of recruitment (which was communicated to NITA by the MHRD, Govt. of India) mentioned in the advertisement, based on the statutory policy decision of NITSER Council in exercise of absolute power under Section 32 (2) (b) of NITSER Act. The appointment will be for a period of 5 years or up to the age of 62 years, whichever is earlier, from the date of joining. All details regarding service benefits and terms & conditions of appointment will be decided by the Director and to be mentioned in the appointment letter to be issued by the Director. It was also decided that "If Shri Bhargava does not join, a fresh advertisement will be issued for the recruitment of a new Registrar.”

The minutes were also confirmed by the Board for implementation with immediate effect from the date of signing the minutes by the Registrar (i/c) with the approval of the Director.

Item No. 39.5: To consider the recommendations of the Selection Committee for recruitment of Teaching staff under the Special Recruitment Drive for persons with disabilities (PWDs).

The BOG accepted the recommendation of the Selection Committee and noted that one candidate who appeared for the interview was not found suitable for selection and appointment. A fresh advertisement will be issued again.

Item No. 39.6: To consider regularization of the absenting period of Mr. Swarup Paul, Assistant Professor of Production Engineering Department, NIT Agartala, for the period from 01-08-2014 to 23-09-2015 (i.e., 1 year, 1 month, 23 days).

The BOG decided that a letter will be issued by the Registrar to Mr. Swarup Paul requesting one unconditional written apology and a regret letter, promising not to commit such indiscipline in the future. After getting the letter, the matter will be again placed before the Board at its next BOG meeting for regularization of the period of absence of Mr. Paul from 01-08-2014 to 23-09-2015 by sanctioning study leave.

Item No. 39.7: To consider pay protection of past service rendered by Mr. R. K. Bhogendra Meitei, Asstt. Professor, Dept. of Mech. Engg, NIT, Agartala.

The Board noted that Mr. R. K. Bhogendra Meitei accepted the terms & conditions of his appointment at the time of his joining NITA, and it is not feasible at this stage to give pay protection of past service.

--- Page 4 ---

39th BOG Meeting Minutes
March 24, 2017/ NITA

Item No. 39.11: To consider the proposal of payment of Honorarium/ Special Allowance to the Registrar (in-charge) of the Institute.

The Board approved the proposal for payment of Special Allowance to any faculty member who was given additional charge to work as Registrar (i/c) in addition to his/her normal academic duties, @ Rs. 3500/- per month w.e.f. 05-07-2012. Such Special Allowance to any faculty member will also be given in the future who is given additional charge to work as Registrar (i/c). The Board also delegated power to the Director, NITA, to pay such relevant Special Allowance to any other faculty member who is required to carry out additional non-academic work every month for a certain period, in addition to his/her normal academic duties.

Item No. 39.12: To consider re-imbursement of visa fees, Travel Insurance and health insurance charges for visiting abroad.

The relevant Central Govt. Rules/ System to be followed.

Item No. 39.13: To consider the work for placing the order for the execution of the work of "Up-gradation of the internal main road with both side footpath including side drain, electric post, bus stop, sitting arrangement at a certain interval & conduit from main gate-I to auxiliary gate-2 via housing and boys hostel & auxiliary gate-2 to main gate-1 and auditorium to existing play ground (old) at NIT Agartala" at a tender value of Rs. 12,16,37,422, Estimated cost of the work being Rs. 9,29,18,776.

The Board noted that, as per the requirement of the GFR/ CPWD system and CVC Guidelines, an Open Tender Process was adopted. An adequate number of Quotations/Bids (Technical and Financial Bids) were received and the same were scrutinized by the Evaluation Committee. The Contractor (Shri Jahar Sur Choudhury) was the lowest bidder. The rates quoted by the lowest bidder were scrutinized by the Tender Opening and Evaluation Committee with justification of rates, and the same was vetted and accepted by the Statutory BWC as per provision of Statutes 13(5) for the acceptance of the tender. The recommendation of the BWC was placed before the Statutory Finance Committee. Considering the GFR/CPWD System/CVC guidelines have been followed, the Board accepted the recommendation of the BWC and Finance Committee for placing the work order to the lowest bidder (Contractor- Shri Jahar Sur Choudhury) and also confirmed the Minutes for implementation.

Item No. 39.14: To consider the proposal for consideration of issuance of a No-Objection Certificate in favor of the Association of Non-Teaching Staff of NIT Agartala.

The Board noted that the bye-laws included both regular & contractual employees in one Association and, therefore, the proposal is not accepted at this Stage.

--- Page 5 ---
39th BOG Meeting Minutes
March 24, 2017/ NITA

Item No. 39.15: To consider for procurement of SWEBOK-based e-learning and Training Content from the IEEE Computer Society to provide detailed supplementary learning for PG, UG, and research fellows/faculty.

The Board felt that the software may not be very effective and decided to get feedback from other Institutions mentioned below:

1. NITK Surathkal.
2. VNIT Nagpur.
3. NIT Patna.
4. NIT Goa.
5. NIT Nagaland.
6. NIT Arunachal Pradesh.
7. NIT Manipur.
8. Delhi Technological University.
9. RV College of Engineering.
10. PES University.
11. Defence Institute of Advanced Technology.
12. Gujarat Technological University.

It was also felt necessary to know the financial liability after 3 years. The proposal is not accepted at its present stage.

Item No. 39.16: To consider the Audit Report on the Accounts of the Institute for the year 2015-16.

The Board accepted the decision of the Statutory Finance Committee and confirmed the minutes for implementation.

Item No. 39.17: To consider the Annual Report for the year 2015-16.

The Board accepted the Annual Report and approved the same.

Item No. 39.18: Present Status of TEQIP-II Project of NIT Agartala.

The Board noted the status.

Item No. 39.19: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the 28th Finance Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.

The Board approved the recommendations of the 28th Finance Committee meeting and confirmed the minutes for implementation wherever required.

--- Page 6 ---

39th BOG Meeting Minutes
March 24, 2017/ NITA

Item No. 39.20: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the 36th and 37th Building & Works Committee meeting of NIT Agartala.

The Board accepted the recommendations of the BWC and Finance Committee.

Item No. 39.21: To consider the procurement proposal for “modernizing of NIT Agartala, Revised Procurement Committee and procurement process etc."

The Board accepted the TEQIP-related proposal as per rule.

Item No. 39.22: TDS liabilities of Rs. 1,52,92,993 for payment made to Tripura Housing and Construction Board, Agartala during the financial year 2007-08 to 2010-11.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of the Finance Committee and confirmed the minutes for implementation.

The Board also decided that Tripura Housing and Construction Board may be pursued to refund the TDS liability together with interest accrued, to NIT, Agartala.

Item No. 39.23: Any other item with permission of the Chair.

Item No. 39.23.1: To adopt and approve the manual of NIT, Agartala Medical Attendant Rules in line with CS (MA) Rules.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of the Finance Committee.

Item No. 39.23.2: To consider and adopt a Group Health Insurance Policy for all categories of employees and their family members of NIT, Agartala.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendation of the Finance Committee with the condition that there should not be any financial liability on the part of NITA/ MHRD.

Item No. 39.23.3: To consider approval for the work of "Supply, installation, testing & commissioning of 14 (fourteen) lifts in Administrative Building 1 & 2, School of Management, International Guest House, Academic Block (ECE Deptt. & DoNER) and Central Library at NIT Agartala" at a cost of Rs. 4,17,13,490.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of the Finance Committee and confirmed the minutes for implementation, in accordance with GFR provisions, CVC guidelines, and GOI instructions, to accord the work to CPWD as deposit work.

--- Page 7 ---
39th BOG Meeting Minutes
March 24, 2017/ NITA

Item No. 39.23.4: To consider the proposal for procurement of new machines and tools for the new central workshop under the Mechanical Engineering Department.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of the Finance Committee and felt that the provisions of GFR, CVC guidelines, and GOT instructions should be followed.

Item No. 39.23.5: To consider the proposal for procurement of an Inverted Metallurgical Microscope with Image Analysis system.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendation of the Finance Committee and felt that the provisions of GFR, CVC guidelines, and GOI instructions should be followed.

Item No. 39.23.6: Appraisal to the Board regarding the signing of an MoU with IIT Madras for research & academic collaboration.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of the Finance Committee and confirmed the minutes for implementation, as applicable.

Item No. 39.23.7: To consider the proposal of signing an MoU with the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Nagpur.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of the Finance Committee and confirmed the minutes for implementation, as applicable.

Item No. 39.23.8: To consider the formation of a Selection Committee for the Start-up programme of the Govt. of India and selected start-up proposals.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of the Finance Committee and confirmed the minutes for implementation.

The Board also felt that a Committee may be formed to note the Status and the benefits which shall be achieved in respect of the start-ups.

Item No. 39.23.9: To consider the work of Electromechanical work in the swimming pool of the sports complex at NIT Agartala.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of the Finance Committee and confirmed the minutes for implementation and felt that the provisions of GFR, CVC guidelines, and GOI instructions should be followed before awarding the work.

Item No. 39.23.10: To consider the appointment of Prof. Swapan Bhattacharya, Professor, Jadavpur University as an Adjunct Faculty member in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, NIT Agartala.

The Board decided that Prof. Swapan Bhattacharya may be appointed as an adjunct faculty with financial benefits, salary, pay etc., and other terms and conditions of appointment to be

--- Page 8 ---

39th BOG Meeting Minutes
March 24, 2017/ NITA

decided by the Director, for a period of 3 years from the date of joining in the Department of Computer Science & Engineering of NIT, Agartala, subject to the condition that the MHRD, Govt. of India, has no objection to his appointment, and accordingly, the matter may be referred to MHRD, and until such time, the matter may be deferred.

Item No. 39.23.11: To consider three agenda items of the 28th Senate meeting of NIT Agartala.

The minutes of the 28th Senate meeting were approved by the Board in its 38th BOG meeting held on November 11, 2016, against item no. 38.1. But regarding three items viz. S/20/15, S/20/17, and S/20/18, the Board suggested that the items may be routed through the Finance Committee.

Now, the Finance Committee in its 29th (Item No. 29.11) meeting concurred with the recommendation for the three items of the 20th Senate meeting mentioned above. The BOG approved and confirmed the recommendation of the 29th Finance Committee meeting in this regard.

Item No. 39.23.12: To consider the expansion of Campus Wide Networking (Phase IIK) of NIT Agartala.

The Board accepted the decision and recommendations of the Finance Committee and confirmed its decision for implementation. The Board also advised looking into similar practices as followed in other NITs.

The meeting ended with a Vote of Thanks to the Chairman.

(Dr. Govind Bhargava) (Prof. Deepak B. Phatak)
Secretary Chairperson
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar, NIT Agartala NIT Agartala
