--- Page 1 ---

41st (Spl) BoG/ Minutes
November 10, 2017/ NITA

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799046

Minutes of the 41st Meeting of the
Board of Governors
held on November 10, 2017
in the Virtual Class Room of NIT Agartala, Tripura

The 41st meeting of the Board of Governors of the National Institute of Technology Agartala was held on November 10, 2017, at 02:00 pm in the Virtual Class Room of NIT Agartala, Tripura. This meeting was originally scheduled to be held in the Board Room of NIT Agartala.

The following members were present in the meeting:

(1) Prof. Ajoy Kumar Ray : Director, NIT, Agartala.

(2) Shri Sanjeev Kumar Sharma : Director (NITs), MHRD, Govt. of India
(Representative of Special Secretary / Additional Secretary / Joint Secretary dealing with Technical Education, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD).

(3) Dr. B. Palit : Director, Dept. of Higher Education, Govt. of Tripura, Agartala
(Representative of Principal Secretary to the Government of Tripura, Dept. of Higher Education, School Education etc., Agartala, Tripura).

(4) Prof. Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay : Director, Indian Statistical Institute, Machine Intelligence Unit, Kolkata

(5) Prof. G. Krishnamoorthy : Associate Dean (R&D), IIT Guwahati
(Nominee of Director, IIT Guwahati)

(6) Shri Alok Roy Choudhury : Addl. Chief Engineer, PWD, Government of Tripura, Agartala.

(7) Dr. Govind Bhargava : Secretary, BoG, Registrar, NIT Agartala.

Prof. Vijayalakshmi Ravindranath, Chairperson, Centre for Neuroscience, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, and The Financial Advisor, FD, MHRD, could not attend the meeting.

Mr. Sanjeev K. Sharma, Director (NITs), MHRD, Govt. of India, attended the meeting through Video Conferencing from his Office, MHRD, Govt. of India, New Delhi.

Dr. S. C. Saha, Professor, Mechanical Engineering Dept., NIT Agartala, and Dr. Ardhendu Saha, Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering Dept, NIT Agartala, were present as Invitees.

In the absence of the Chairperson, Board of Governors, NIT Agartala, the members present in the 41st meeting of the Board of Governors elected Prof. Ajoy Kumar Ray, Director, NIT Agartala, as the Chairperson of the 41st meeting of the Board of Governors, NIT Agartala, exercising Clause 4 (7) of the First Statutes of the National Institutes of Technology.

Page 1 of 2

--- Page 2 ---

41st (Spl) BoG/ Minutes
November 10, 2017/ NITA

Prof. Ajoy Kumar Ray, Chairperson, Board of Governors, NIT Agartala, presided over the meeting and welcomed all the Members of the Board of Governors.

The Chairperson then invited the Registrar to initiate discussions on Agenda items.

Item No. 41.1: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the 23rd Senate meeting of NIT Agartala held on 22nd March 2017.

The BoG approved and confirmed the minutes of the 23rd meeting of the Senate, NIT Agartala, held on 22nd March 2017.

Item No. 41.2: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the 24th Senate meeting of NIT Agartala held on 18th September 2017.

The BoG approved and confirmed the minutes of the 24th meeting of the Senate, NIT Agartala, held on 18th September 2017.

Item No. 41.3: To consider the recommendations of the minutes of the 25th Senate meeting of NIT Agartala held on 10th November 2017.

The BoG approved and confirmed the minutes of the 25th meeting of the Senate, NIT Agartala, held on 10th November 2017.

Item No. 41.4: Any other item with permission of the Chair.

Item No. 41.4.1: To consider ratification of the decision of the Chairperson, BoG, regarding adoption and implementation of the recommendation of the Anomaly Committee in respect of Recruitment/ Promotion/ One-time Mapping to higher AGP.

Ratified.

The meeting ended with a vote of thanks to the Chair.

(Prof. Ajoy Kumar Ray) (Dr. Govind Bhargava)
Chairperson Secretary
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Director, NIT Agartala & Registrar, NIT Agartala

Page 2 of 2
