--- Page 1 ---

42nd BOG Meeting/ Agenda
27-12-2017/ NIT, Agartala

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
AGARTALA
WEST TRIPURA, PIN: 799046

Minutes of the 42nd Meeting of the

Board of Governors
held on December 27, 2017

At Conference Room, First Floor, C Wing, Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi

The 42nd meeting of the Board of Governors of NIT, Agartala, was held on December 27, 2017 at 11:00 AM in the Conference Room, First floor, C-Wing, Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi.

The following members were present in the meeting:

(1) Prof. (Dr.) H. K. Sharma: Chairperson, BoG, NIT Agartala
(2) Prof. (Dr.) H. K. Sharma: Director, NIT, Agartala
(3) Sri Anil Kumar: Director, IFD, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD, Govt. of India
(4) Shri K. Rajan: Under Secretary (NITs), MHRD, Govt. of India
(Representative of Special Secretary / Additional Secretary / Joint Secretary dealing with Technical Education, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD).
(5) Shri Alok Roy Choudhury: Chief Engineer, PWD, Government of Tripura, Agartala.
(6) Dr. Perumal Alagarsamy: Professor, Dept. of Physics and Representative of Director, IIT, Guwahati
(7) Dr. Subhadeep Bhattacharjee: Asst. Professor, Dept. of Electrical Engg., NIT Agartala.
(8) Dr. Govind Bhargava: Secretary, Registrar, NIT, Agartala

Prof. (Dr.) H. K. Sharma, Chairperson, Board of Governors of NIT, Agartala, presided over the meeting and welcomed all the members present for attending the meeting. The Chairperson then invited the Registrar to initiate the discussions on agenda items.

Item No. 42.1: Confirmation of the draft Minutes of the 40th and 41st Meetings of the Board of Governors, NIT Agartala.

The Minutes of the 40th BoG Meeting were confirmed with the following modifications:

--- Page 2 ---

42nd BOG Meeting/ Agenda
27-12- 2017/ NIT, Agartala

“Sitting Fee (Honorarium) for non-official members should be Rs. 3000 per meeting, subject to the maximum of Rs. 5000 per day and accordingly, the circular for payment of TA/DA for non-official members may be modified.”

The Minutes of the 41st BoG Meeting were confirmed.

Item No. 42.2: Actions taken on decisions of the 39th BOG meeting of NIT, Agartala held on March 24, 2017.

The Board noted the various actions taken based on the decisions taken in the 39th BoG Meeting.

Regarding Item No. 39.23 [i.e., “To adopt and approve the Manual of NITA, Medical Attendance Rule in line with CS (MA) Rules”], the Board noted the following information:

“The Director, IFD, Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD, Govt. of India, informed the Board that the MHRD, Govt. of India is going to issue a letter to all NITs to follow CS (MA) rules of Govt. of India for Medical Benefits to regular employees of NITs. Therefore, CS(MA) rules should be followed, and if required, minor adoptions in line with CS(MA) rules should be made depending upon the facilities in the North-East Region.

Item No. 42.3: To consider implementation of 7th CPC benefits to regular Faculty Members of NIT, Agartala and also to non-teaching employees.

The Board decided to implement 7th CPC benefits to the faculty members and non-teaching employees after getting the relevant letter from MHRD and this decision was confirmed for implementation.

Item No. 42.4: To ratify the decision of the Chairperson, BoG regarding delegation of some administrative & financial power to the officials of NIT Agartala.

The Board ratified the decision taken by the previous Chairperson of BoG and also approved point No. ant. [This seems to be an error in the original text]

The Board strongly felt that for expenditure and procurement, CVC Guidelines, GFR, Manual of Works, and Manual for Procurement of Consultancy and other services of Govt. of India, should be followed.

Item No. 42.5: To consider some service related issues in respect of Sri Sumanta Chakraborti, Ex-Deputy Registrar, NIT Agartala, having lien to the post of Deputy Registrar, NIT Agartala.

42.5.1 Upgradation of Qualification of Sri Samanta Chakraborti to Ph.D.

The Board noted the administrative lapses committed by Shri Sumanta Chakraborty for getting his Ph.D. degree and decided not to upgrade his qualification to Ph.D.

42.5.2 Upgradation of Pay Band of Sri Chakraborti, after completing 5 Years’ Service as per 6th CPC.

The board decided that without a Master's Degree, pay band upgradation cannot be made.

--- Page 3 ---
42nd BOG Meeting/ Agenda
27-12- 2017/ NIT, Agartala

42.5.3 Irregularities for getting GPF and pension benefits by Shri Sumanta Chakraborti

The Board viewed the irregularities seriously regarding the conversion of EPF to GPF. Therefore, the Board felt that he cannot be allowed to get GPF and Pensionary benefits in violation of the provision of NIT Statutes.

The Board also emphasized seeking a legal opinion to issue a charge sheet at this stage, in view of the existence of a WP(c) in the High Court of Tripura.

The decision regarding this agenda (42.5) was also confirmed for implementation.

Item No. 42.6: To consider the issue of unauthorized absence of Shri Kishan Choudhury, Assistant Professor, Production Engineering Department, NIT Agartala during the period 27-12-2010 to 20-03-2011.

The Board decided that a further reply may be sought from Shri K. Chaudhary regarding the absence, and the matter may be put up in the forthcoming BOG meeting.

Item No. 42.7: To consider the requirement of additional teaching posts as per norms at NIT, Agartala

The Board agreed and approved the requirement of 293 teaching posts as per the student strength. Follow-up action should be taken with the MHRD to get a sanction of additional 74 faculty positions.

The Board agreed for a further extension of service to Contractual Faculty members so that the academic activities should not suffer. The Board made it clear that no further Contractual Faculty Members should be recruited for another two years unless it is of paramount importance.

The decision regarding this agenda was confirmed for implementation.

Item No. 42.8: To consider renaming various non-teaching sanctioned posts and their allocation as per the 200-point reservation roster.

The Board agreed and approved the requirement of 323 non-teaching posts as per norms. Follow-up action is needed to get a sanction of additional 82 non-teaching posts. The designation and nomenclature of posts should be as per the availability of recruitment rules in respect of non-teaching employees circulated by MHRD, vide No. 33-2/2012-TS.III dated 28-12-2017. Accordingly, a 200-point reservation roster should be prepared, which shall be approved by the Director for execution.

Item No. 42.9: To consider the introduction of Annual Self-Assessment for the Performance-Based Appraisal System (PBAS) in respect of Faculty Members of NIT, Agartala.

The Board approved the decision and authorized the Director to prepare PBAS and implement it at the earliest. The decision of the Board was confirmed for implementation.

Item No. 42.10: To consider payment of allowances to faculty members who are deputed for a Ph.D. Program under QIP to other states/ locations outside Tripura.

The Agenda was deferred, and the Registrar was instructed to take further action in this regard as per QIP guidelines.

--- Page 4 ---

42nd BOG Meeting/ Agenda
27-12- 2017/ NIT, Agartala

Item No. 42.11: To ratify the decisions taken by the Chairman, BoG/ Director of NITA regarding visits of the faculty members to foreign countries under the CPDA.

The Board noted that the Chairman, BoG has the power and there is no need in the future to place it to the Board for ratification of the decision of the Chairperson.

Item No. 42.12: To ratify the decisions taken by the previous Chairman, BoG regarding the continuance of outsourcing agencies for Security, Housekeeping, and Gardening services at NITA.

The Board ratified the decision of the Chairman, BoG and felt that an “Open Tendering Process” should be completed as quickly as possible.

Item No. 42.13: To consider some issues related to the “Teachers Association” at NIT, Agartala

The board agreed that the Association should give the following information whenever any letter is submitted to the Director:

1) The date of holding the meeting and the duration of the meeting (with starting & ending time).

2) The total number of teachers who are members of the Association.

3) How many Faculty Members attended the particular meeting.

4) List and signature of faculty members who attended the meeting.

5) How many faculty members agreed for the decisions conveyed through letters to the Director. How many faculty members did not agree for the decisions conveyed through letters to the Director.

6) One Digital File (compatible with a popular or commonly used Media/Video Player) showing video recording of the entire proceeding of the Association Meeting.

This decision was confirmed for implementation and for any other issues, the relevant guidelines of Govt. of India may be followed.

Item No. 42.14: To consider the relaxation of age for contractual non-teaching employees who have completed 5 years of service, for submitting applications against advertisements for regular appointment of non-teaching staff at NITA, as and when such advertisements are issued in the future.

The Board noted that the MHRD has already circulated a letter vide No.F. 33-2/2012-TS.III dated 20th December 2017 regarding the decision of the Council of NITSER permitting one-time age relaxation for employees engaged on an ad-hoc/temporary/contractual basis for which the quantum of age relaxation may be decided by the respective Board of Governors.

The Board decided that the quantum of age relaxation would be decided by the Director.

Item No. 42.15: To ratify the decision taken by the Chairman, Senate and Chairman (BoG) regarding the nomination of faculty members to BoG as members.

The Board ratified the decision of the Chairman, Senate and Chairman, BoG.

--- Page 5 ---
42nd BOG Meeting/ Agenda
27-12- 2017/ NIT, Agartala

Item No. 42.16: To consider various issues related to the faculty recruitment process initiated in September 2017.

The Board approved the Guidelines, the distribution of faculty members/ seat allocation, and reservation roster. The decision was confirmed for implementation.

Item No. 42.17: To consider the upgradation of AGP from 9000 to 9500 and 10000 to 10500 in respect of regular Associate Professors and Professors respectively, under the policy of One-Time Relaxation for Mapping to Higher AGP.

The Board accepted the recommendations of the Committee and confirmed the same for implementation. The date of implementation will be 27-12-2017 (the date of holding the BoG meeting).

Item No. 42.18: To consider the issue of annual increments on salary in respect of some faculty members appointed without a Ph.D. degree, on a regular basis, but initially on contract, with the condition that they will be regularized after the completion of Ph.D. degree within 5 years.

The Agenda was deferred.

Item No. 42.19: To consider annual pay enhancement matters of contractual employees (for faculty members and non-teaching employees) of NIT, Agartala

The Board approved a 15% increase for those whose consolidated pay is up to 40000. For consolidated pay above Rs. 40000, such an increase will be @ 5%. The Board also decided that for any contractual appointment in the future, if required, only contractual monthly pay will be given without any provision for a yearly increment. Reappointment, if necessary, after one year, may be considered with at least a 1-day break in service or by holding an interview.

The decision was confirmed for implementation.

Item No. 42.20: Any other item with the permission of the Chair.

Item No: 42.20.1: To receive a note regarding a “Kokborok” Certificate Course being Conducted by NIT, Agartala

The Board noted the Kokborok Certificate Program, being run at NITA and agreed to continue.

Item.No. 42.20.2: To consider various issues pertaining to the ongoing TEQIP-III program at NIT Agartala

The Board noted the TEQIP guidelines to be followed. The Committees proposed and Project Implementation Proposal (PIP) were approved. However, the Director was authorized to change any person at any stage from the TEQIP Team. The decision was confirmed for implementation.

Item No.42.20.3: To explore the possibility of one-time relaxation for upgradation of Grade Pay in respect of existing regular Assistant Professors of NIT, Agartala, who have been confirmed in service, but not possessing a Ph.D. degree.

The Agenda Item was withdrawn since the proposal violates the provision of Statutes.

--- Page 6 ---

42nd BOG Meeting/ Agenda
27-12-2017/ NIT, Agartala

Item No.42.20.4: Honorarium to BOG/FC member

The Board decided that an honorarium of Rs. 5000 should be paid to the members of BOG/FC. The decision was confirmed for implementation.

The Meeting ended with a note of thanks to the Chair.

Dr. Govind Bhargava Prof. (Dr.) H.K.Sharma
Secretary Chairperson
Board of Governors Board of Governors
& Registrar, NIT, Agartala NIT, Agartala
