NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY AGARTALA
Barjala, Jirania, Agartala — 799046 (Tripura)

OFFICE OF THE DEAN ACADEMIC

F.NITA.5/(10-Acad)/CSAB-2025/Adm/2024-25/2810

Date: 24/02/2025

NOTICE

This is to inform all candidates who have been allotted a seat at NIT Agartala in the regular rounds of JoSAA-2025 and CSAB-2025 Special Rounds for admission to UG and Dual Degree programmes that they must report physically at the Institute between 20th and 23rd August 2025, from 9 am to 4 pm.

The details related to registration and a list of documents to be submitted at the time of provisional admission are stated hereunder:

Instructions for online registration on MIS portal:

1.  Register yourself in the MIS portal through the link www.mis.nita.ac.in by using your JEE (Main) 2025 application number, before appearing for physical reporting.
2.  Enter and fill in the required details in the portal.
3.  Candidates must upload the following documents in the online portal as mentioned below (In case of multiple documents, upload them in a single PDF file):

Table- 1

| Document                                                                                             |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Score card of JEE (Main) 2025 (mandatory).                                                           |
| Admit card of class 10th/ Birth certificate, for age proof (mandatory).                             |
| Marksheets of 10th and 12th or equivalent (mandatory).                                                  |
| Provisional Admission Letter finally issued by JoSAA/CSAB 2025 (mandatory).                              |
| Photo ID proof, as per Govt. of India guidelines (mandatory).                                              |
| If applicable: Upload the Certificate/s (SC/ST/OBC-NCL/GEN-EWS), issued by the competent authority, as per Government of India format (available at the JoSAA 2025 website). In case of OBC-NCL/GEN-EWS category, the certificate must be issued on or after 01/04/2025.  > For candidates of Maharashtra state, Caste validity Certificate is mandatory along with caste certificate. > ST certificates from Tamil Nadu state must be issued by the concerned Revenue Divisional Officer. |
| Migration and Conduct/ Character certificate from the last attended Institution (mandatory).                |
| Physical Disability Certificate, as per JoSAA 2025 format, if applicable.                              |
| Undertaking as per prescribed format at Annexure- A (mandatory).                                      |
| If Applicable (for B. Tech. courses only): Upload a valid Annual Family Income Certificate, from all sources, and affidavit in the prescribed format, issued by the competent authority strictly to claim tuition fee remission at NIT Agartala. The certificate should be in Hindi/ English only, and issued on or after 1st April 2025. Details are given in subsequent pages of this notification.  Note: SC/ST/PwD students need not upload Income certificate for tuition fee waiver. |
| Medical Certificate, as per JOSAA/ CSAB- 2025 format.                                                 |
| Candidates whose 12th passing year is not the current year must submit a GAP certificate.                |

Note:

1.  Make a single file of the above original documents in the same sequence.
2.  Bring a photocopy set of all the above-mentioned documents in the same sequence.
3.  Students are instructed to upload a recent formal passport-size photograph.
4.  An online provisional registration slip will be generated. All are instructed to save the online provisional registration slip for future reference. (Candidates must enable pop-ups in their browser to download the online provisional registration slip).
5.  Candidates must complete the Online registration before appearing for Physical Reporting at the Institute.
6.  For any other relevant query, please contact the MIS Section through nitmisagt@mail.nita.ac.in.

Instructions for Physical Reporting at NIT Agartala (20th to 23rd August 2025, from 9 am to 4 pm):

1.  Candidates must bring the online provisional registration slip.
2.  Candidates must bring all the Originals of the above-mentioned documents (Table- 1) along with a set of duly self-attested photocopied hard copies.

The following points are to be noted by the candidates:

1.  For details of fees for the 1st Semester, candidates may visit the Institute website. The different heads of fees (including tuition fee) may be changed by the Competent Authority. In such a case, students are required to pay the changed fee.
2.  Candidates not eligible for tuition fee waiver and remission are required to pay the Balance Institute Fee.
3.  No request for an extension of the date of physical reporting will be entertained.
4.  Classes will tentatively commence from 25th August 2025 for UG and Dual degree students admitted during the 2025-26 session.
5.  The schedule of the Induction Programme for all admitted students will be notified later.
6.  Notification regarding Anti-Ragging is appended with this notice, as per Annexure-IV.

Hostel Accommodation:

1.  The detailed process of hostel payment and allotment shall be notified on the website. Students are advised to visit the website regularly.
2.  For any other hostel-related query, students may contact the Office of the Chief Warden (chiefwardennita@gmail.com).

Refund:

1.  If a candidate decides to quit the allotted course at NIT Agartala after the last date of withdrawal/cancellation, as announced by JoSAA-2025 and/or CSAB-2025, the Institute will refund only the academic caution money, after the amount paid by the candidate to JoSAA and/or CSAB is transferred to NIT Agartala.
2.  At any point in time, in any semester during the tenure of a course, if an admitted student cancels admission or abandons the course without completing the programme, the fees paid in all the semesters will be forfeited by the Institute. The student will be eligible for a refund of academic caution money only.
3.  To cancel admission, the student has to apply for a No-Dues certificate through his MIS account. Once the No-Dues certificate is issued, the candidate has to apply with a copy of the No-Dues certificate for the release of Caution Money.

**Candidates must visit the Institute website regularly for any further updates.**

(Prof. Rajib Saha)
Dean (Academic)
NIT Agartala

This is issued with the approval of the competent authority.

Copy to: -

1.  PS to the Director for kind information of the Director.
2.  All Deans, NIT Agartala for kind information.
3.  Professor-in-charge, Admission (JoSAA-2025 and CSAB-2025), for kind information and necessary action.
4.  The Registrar, NIT Agartala for kind information.
5.  All HODs and W/S, for kind information and necessary action.
6.  Asso. Dean (Exam), for kind information.
7.  Asso. Dean (UG), for kind information.
8.  Chief Warden, for kind information and necessary action.
9.  1st year Co-ordinator, for kind information and necessary action.
10. Dy. Registrar (Academic), for kind information and necessary action.
11. Asstt. Registrar (Academic), for kind information and necessary action.
12. Faculty-In-Charge, MIS, for kind information & necessary action.
13. Dy. Registrar (F&A), for kind information and necessary action.
14. System Administrator, with a request to upload the notice on the Institute website.

Dean (Academic)
NIT Agartala
