National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799046 (Tripura)

No.F.NITA.2(166-Estt)/Cont//2023/ Dated: / /2025

NOTICE FOR ENGAGEMENT ON CONTRACT BASIS

Applications are invited for engagement on a contractual basis for the post of Facility Manager (contractual).

1. Name of the Post: Facility Manager (contractual)
2. Age Limit: Upto 62 years as on 31-12-2024.
3. Remuneration: Rs. 50,000/- per month (consolidated). Remuneration will not be a constraint for a deserving candidate. For official tour/visit, TA/DA will be admissible as per rule.
4. Job Profile:
a) Management/Supervision of maintenance, gardening, housekeeping team in the Institute to the required standard, obtaining maximum productivity, efficiency, quality service and observe all aspects of compliance and quality standards by adhering to budget and required criteria.
b) Supervise day-to-day maintenance of all aspects of the estate including maintenance of buildings, tree cutting, horticulture, housekeeping, waste management, etc.
c) Supervise utility staff and empanelled vendors.
5. Contract Tenure: The contract will be initially for a period of one year and may be considered for further extension up to 3 terms, subject to the requirements of the institute and satisfactory work performance. The original term and renewals together are limited to 3 years.
6. Essential Qualification: Must be a Graduate from a recognized University in any discipline.
7. Essential Experience: The applicant should have relevant experience as referred to against the job profile. Proof of experience must be enclosed with the application form. The applicant having experience in an educational institute will be preferred. However, the same can be relaxed for deserving candidates. Retired persons from Govt. Depts./ Autonomous bodies/ PSU/ Central/ State University having required experience in the given job profile will be preferred.
8. No. of Post: 01 (one)

Eligible candidates, interested in appearing for the interview, should send their application addressed to the Registrar, NIT Agartala, mentioning the following: (1) Post applied for, (2) Name (in Block letters), (3) Father’s/Husband’s Name (4) Present & Permanent address (5) Date of birth and Age (as on 31-12-2024) (6) Email address, Mobile No. (7) Whether SC/ST/OBC/PH/Ex-S, (8) Educational qualification (9) Experience (if any) (10) Category (11) Other Information (if any) (12) Whether all the terms & conditions of the advt. are agreed to or not (YES/NO), along with a self-attested photocopy of all certificates in a single PDF for proof of education/experience/age, etc., latest by 25-02-2025 through email at establishment@nita.ac.in

Shortlisted candidates will be informed by return email indicating the tentative date & time to attend the interview.

The shortlisted candidates are required to bring a copy of the filled-in Application form, a recent passport-size photograph, all original documents along with a set of self-attested copies of the documents at the time of the interview for verification.

For updates (if any), please visit the institute website http://www.nita.ac.in

TERMS & CONDITIONS:

The appointment against the above-mentioned position shall be purely on a contract basis on a fixed pay initially for a period of one year and may be considered for further extension up to 3 terms, subject to the requirements of the institute and satisfactory work performance. The original term and renewals together are limited to 3 years.

Contd..P/2.
National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin: - 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2546630 / 6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url :- www.nita.ac.in.

National Institute of Technology Agartala
AGARTALA - 799046 (Tripura)

-2:-

2. With regard to the appointment of selected candidates against a specific post, the decision of the Competent Authority of NIT Agartala shall be final & binding.

3. If anyone wants to leave the institution during the contract period, he/she has to give one month’s notice or pay in lieu thereof.

4. The engagement will be subject to discontinuance at any point in time without assigning any reason if the exigency of service does not require it or the interest of the institution is not served to the satisfaction of the Appointing Authority. The engagement will not confer any right of continuation or confirmation in NIT Agartala under any circumstances.

5. Essential qualification should be from a recognized University/ Deemed University/ Institute/ Council etc.

6. The Competent Authority of NIT Agartala reserves the right to relax/modify any criteria of eligibility regarding age/qualification/experience or any relevant parameters if the candidate is found otherwise suitable.

7. Canvassing in any manner and bringing outside influence shall make the candidate liable for rejection.

8. No TA/DA is admissible to attend the interview.

9. Superannuated employees of Central Govt./ State Govt./ PSU are encouraged to apply.

10. Experience shall mean experience in the relevant field acquired from Government/Semi Govt./PSU/Autonomous/Research/Reputed Organization after obtaining the minimum educational qualification asked for in the said category. An experience certificate from the employer should be attached.

11. In case of any dispute arising, the decision of the Director, NIT Agartala shall be final & binding.

Sd/-
{Col. (Dr) Ashish Badola}
Registrar
NIT Agartala

Copy to:

1. PS to Director, NITA for kind information of the Director.
2. The Director, Tripura Campus, NFSU, Agartala, with the request to arrange publicity.
3. The Registrar, Tripura University, Suryamaninagar, Amtali, West Tripura, with the request to arrange publicity.
4. The Registrar, Central Sanskrit University, Lembucherra, Tripura, Agartala.
5. The Registrar, MBB University, College Tilla, Agartala, with the request to arrange publicity.
6. The Registrar, ICFAI University, Kamalghat, Agartala, with the request to arrange publicity.
7. The Chairman, Computing & ICT, NIT Agartala with the request to upload the same in the institute’s website.

Sd/-
{Col. (Dr) Ashish Badola}
Registrar
NIT Agartala

National Institute of Technology Agartala
Barjala, Jirania, West Tripura, Pin: - 799046
Tel. No. +91381 2546630 / 6629, Fax. No. +91381 2346360, Url :- www.nita.ac.in.
