National Institute of Technology Agartala
राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिकी संस्थान अगरतला

ADMINISTRATION
Board of Governors
The Senate Committee
The Finance Committee
Office of Director
The Buildings and Works Committee
Office of Registrar
Office of Dean (Academic Affairs)
Office of Dean(Planning & Development)
Office of Dean(Students' Welfare)
Office of Dean(Research & Consultancy)
Office of Dean(Faculty Welfare)
Office of Chairman (AR & IR)
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)
Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO)
Establishment Section
Accounts Section
Audit Section
Purchase Section
MIS Section
Library Section
Computing & ICT Unit
Office of  Vehicle Section

ACADEMICS
Academic Calendar
Academic Regulations
UG Regulations (old)
Regulations for M.tech Programme (2019)
Regulations for M.tech Programme (Old)
Regulations for Ph.D Programme  (2018)
Regulations for Ph.D Programme (Old)
Admission
UG Admission
M.Tech Admission
M.Sc Admission
MCA Admission
MBA Admission
Ph.D Programme
Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme
DASA at NIT Agartala
Prospectus
First Year Syllabus
B.Sc- B.Ed programme (4-Year ITEP)
List of Holidays (July 2025 - June 2026)

DEPARTMENT
Bio Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Electronics and Communication Engineering
Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Production Engineering
Management, Humanities & Social Sciences
Physics
Chemistry
Mathematics

STUDENT
Center for Career Development
Examination Section
List of People
Verification of Academic Credential
DigiLocker
SOP for acquiring Academic Documents
Question Bank Link
Hostel
Office of the Chief Warden
NITA Health Centre
Sports at NIT Agartala
Student Bodies and Clubs
Student Discipline Manual
Academic Bank of Credits (ABC)
Anti-Ragging
Study in India

ALUMNI
Message
Chairman Alumni Affairs
List of People
Alumni Database
Alumni Portal
Alumni Feedback Form

NEWS EVENTS
Newsletter of NIT Agartala
Magazine "UPSHIFT" Edition 3
Magazine "UPSHIFT" Edition 2
Magazine "UPSHIFT" Edition 1
Past Events

Research
Overview
Project
Sponsored Project
Consultancy Project
Patent
Education/ Training
Conference Organized
Workshop/ Seminar Organized
Research & Innovation Centre
Documents
Achievements


About
National Institute of Technology Agartala
The Government of India converted the Tripura Engineering College to National Institute
of Technology Agartala on 1st April 2006 vide notification No. F. 20-20/2004/TS III/ dated 
10.03.2006 of the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD), Govt. of India. During 
the conversion, Tripura Engineering College was offering undergraduate degrees in Civil, 
Mechanical, Electrical, Computer Science Engineering, Electronics & Communication and Production Engineering.

Director’s Message
The National Institute of Technology Agartala(NITA),an Institute of National Importance (INI) was instituted by Government of India with the mission to herald excellence in technical education and research in the North-East region.
                            The institute was established by the Ministry of Education (MoE) in the era of renaissance in technical education in north east.
PROF. S. K. PATRA
Director, NIT Agartala

Notice Board
Notice for Branch Change for academic session 2025-26.
Notification regarding National Space Day Celebration on 23rd August 2025 in NIT Agartala.
Notification regarding Anti-Ragging Duty Roster 2025 of faculty members for NIT Agartala Hostels.
"All the Results published in the session of Supply (Summer) 2025 are published. Students can check the results from their respective MIS Accounts".
Notice regarding online registration process for physical reporting for UG & Dual Degree student, through JoSAA-2025.
Status of candidates who have submitted grievances for the post of Deputy Registrar, NIT Agartala.
"Physical Reporting of candidates, seat allotted to NIT Agartala through CCMT/ CCMN 2025 for M.Tech / M.Sc. programmes is extended, up to 14th August 2025. Student Reporting time- (09 am to 02 pm)."
Notice regarding bus timing of 01(One) Staff Bus from NIT Agartala to Agartala City.
Notice regarding 79th Independence Day on 15th August in NIT Agartala Campus.
Walk-In-Interview for the post of  Guest Faculty (Physics) at NIT Agartala.


Life on Campus
Our Students
The Institute is located in the midst of serene greenery having a picturesque natural beauty. It is about 4 km away from the 
National Highway and about 20 km from Agartala, the capital city of Tripura. Agartala is linked with the rest of the country by air, train and road. It has got 
direct Air Link with Kolkata, Delhi, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Guwahati and Imphal. The nearest railway station from the Institute campus is Jirania.

Students
Our Departments
There are 9 (nine) branches in B. Tech. Level, 23 (twenty three) specializations in Engineering at Master’s Level and 4 
branches in Dual Degree Level. The institute also offers MBA, MCA, M. Sc. and Doctoral Programs. The institute is also equipped with high-end laboratories 
that ensure an opportunity for the students to work independently.

Student’s Corner
The Institute has Boys and Girls to accommodate in 4 Boys’ Hostels and 1 Girls’ Hostel.
The Medical Unit is well equipped with adequate Medical Officers including pharmacists and other supporting staffs are available in the campus for 
rendering medical care.
NIT Agartala has NCC unit for Boys and Girls.
The NITA Student Gymkhana is an active student body that acts as a liaison between the students and the administration. The Gymkhana promotes 
the objectives of fostering extracurricular and co-curricular activities and welfare of the students.
The students of NIT Agartala are also participated in the national level Technical Fest organized by different IITs and NITs. They are also actively 
engaged in different technical and cultural clubs.
Training & Placement
Centre for Career Development (CCD) is to assist students in their career exploration and successful job search and to successive placement. The centre provides regular guidance to the students regarding their career ambitions. The aim and objective of the centre is to motivate student to adopt career oriented mindset in conjunction with job orientation. The centre facilitates convenient interface for the companies to interact with students so that it is mutually beneficial for both the student mass and for industry and corporate sectors. Such programs could inspire and motivate young talent towards core engineering sectors in order to meet the demands of the corporate world staging a drive for national progress and to become diligent citizens.


National Institute of Technology Agartala
Jirania , West Tripura
Pin - 799046
: director@nita.ac.in, nita.director@gmail.com
: (0381)2546630 & Fax:(0381)2546360
