Bio Engineering
Skip Navigation Links
Home
Programmes
Faculty
Staff
Facilities
Research
Publications
Programmes
Skip Navigation Links
Home
Programmes
Faculty
Staff
Facilities
Research
Publications
Programmes
Program Outcomes (POs):
The students who have undergone the B.Tech. program in Bioengineering:
Will have an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science and basic engineering techniques in biological systems and will have comprehensive understanding of the working mechanisms of the biological systems and about the recent advancements in the field.
Will have an ability to analyze problems involving biological systems by using the principles of science, engineering and mathematics.
Will be able to provide solutions to the problems involving bioengineering by designing and conducting experiments, interpreting and analyzing data to find out trends.
Will have the knowledge and exposure on different laboratory techniques to analyze the biological systems, about different biomedical/process equipment and will have exposure to computational tools and approaches to solve problem involving biological systems.
Will gain expertise in handling modern equipment as well as computational tools which can be used in prediction and analysis of complex problems in bioengineering.
Will be able to apply knowledge acquired to assess health-related, legal and cultural issues and to serve the cause of medical sectors in the society.
Will be equipped with techniques to tackle pollution and will help achieving sustainable development.
Will learn about ethical issues related to developments biological sciences and bioengineering and will apply professional ethics in engineering practices.
will be able to function as a part of a team and individual, as the situation demands, to handles diverse problems in multi-disciplinary settings.
Will be able to communicate efficiently about the engineering problems related to bioengineering to the larger society with the aid of effective reports, documentation and presentation.
Will be able to utilize the knowledge of engineering and management principles to manage projects in multi-disciplinary set-up.
Will have the necessary impetus for life-long learning in the context of technological changes.
PEOs (Program Educational Objectives):
The major objectives of the B.Tech. program in Bioengineering are:
To impart knowledge about applications of engineering techniques in biological systems.
To attain knowledge and expertise to work efficiently in biotechnological, biochemical and biomedical industries .
To prepare students to pursue higher studies in bioengineering .
To develop capabilities to work in research and development organizations.
PSOs (Program Specific Objectives):
To learn protocols and employ engineering principles to solve the problems relevant to today’s industries in the field of bioengineering.
To learn to design and develop different equipment, experiments and computational approaches related to bioengineering.
Programmes :
The department currently offers the following programs:
Under Graduate Program (B.Tech) in Biotechnology & Biochemical Engineering for 4 Years
Post Graduate Program (M.Tech) in Biotechnology & Biochemical Engineering for 2 Years
PhD in Bio Engineering
Curriculum & Syllabus :
Syllabus for "M.Tech in Biotechnology & Biochemical Engineering"
Curriculum and Syllabus for "B.Tech in Biotechnology & Biochemical Engineering"
