Mathematics
Skip Navigation Links
Programmes
Faculty
Staff
Research
Publication
Alumni of the Department
Facilities
Programmes
Skip Navigation Links
Programmes
Faculty
Staff
Research
Publication
Alumni of the Department
Facilities
programmes
DST FIST Sponsored Department (Sanctioned amount: 50 Lakhs)
i. Outline About the Department
The Department of Mathematics starts along with the inception of NIT 
Agartala in 2006 with the up gradation of erstwhile Tripura Engineering 
College (TEC).TEC had been a revered Institute in the field of 
Engineering and Technology since its inceptions in 1965. The Institute 
(TEC &NIT Agartala) has already completed its glorious fifty years 
of its journey, in 2014. The Department of Mathematics is motivated 
towards excellence in research and teaching and has accomplished in this
 venture continuously over the time to a large extent. Initially, the 
department catered the need of teaching Engineering Mathematics to the 
undergraduate students. In 2010 the Department made a big stride in the 
way of starting its M.Sc. in Mathematics program. Further expansion of 
the Department in the form of opening BSMS, a 5 years dual degree course
 in 2014 was really a milestone in the history of the Department. Since 
then, it started functioning as a full-fledged department in true sense.
 At present, the Department is offering M.Sc course in Mathematics and 
Computing; BSMS (5 years dual degree course) in Mathematics and BSMS (5 
years dual degree course) in Mathematics and Computing; Ph.D. Programs 
in Mathematics (Pure & Applied) apart from helping the Engineering 
and Management Departments in the way of offering Engineering 
Mathematics, Operations Research(OR), Numerical Analysis to under 
graduate and post graduate engineering students.
About the Faculty Members
The Department has highly qualified faculty members consisting of one 
(1) Professor, four (4) Associate Professors, ten (10) Assistant 
Professors, one (1) Teaching Assistant and one (1) Lab Assistant. In 
their pursuit of research the faculty members are doing an extensive 
study in  vast and diverse fields relating to Topological Space, 
Nature-inspired Optimization Techniques, Inventory management 
(Operations Research), De-Novo Programming Problem, Multi-Criteria 
Decision-Making, Fuzzy Control System, Computational Fluid Dynamics, 
Biomathematics, Graph theory, ODE & PDE , Super-symmetric Quantum 
Mechanics, Water Wave Mechanics, Heat Transfer, Convection, Numerical 
Methods, Neural Network, Wireless Network, Image Processing etc.
A Brief Insight
•	Energetic, highly motivated and academically sound young faculties and research scholars.
•	Dynamic involvement in academic and administrative tasks.
•	Contributing towards research on contemporary subject areas.
•	Authored books, book chapters and published their research works as patents.
•	Very frequently all faculties of our Department visit various 
venerated  universities/Institutes in India and abroad in order to 
present their research papers in conferences and to attend in Workshops ,
 Schools and for doing collaborative research works.
•	In academic year 2019-20 total 96(approx) research papers have been published in reputed national and 
international peer-reviewed journals with high impact factor.
About the Courses
Admission in the two years (4 Semester) M.Sc Degree Course is made 
through merit basis with an initial intake capacity of 10 students. 
Syllabus revision workshop was organized by the Department, for 
up-gradation of UG-syllabus and course structure / syllabus for M.Sc. 
program to make a significant contribution to academia and research 
& development in Mathematics.
The Department offers two years (4 Semester) PG course, viz. M.Sc in 
Mathematics and Computing with an initial intake capacity of 13 
students. A syllabus revision workshop was organized by the Department, 
for up-gradation of syllabus for this PG level program.
The Department also offers a 10 semester BS-MS Dual Degree Program in 
Mathematics and Computing with initial intake capacity of 25 students. 
This Dual Degree Program encourages and persuades the students to 
grasp in-depth knowledge and also widens their career opportunities. On 
completion of higher degree from this institute, a few of students 
qualify for  
some competitive exams  like NET, GATE, SET, TOEFL, GRE etc. in every 
year for which our faculty members devote themselves in imparting 
special coaching to students who aspire to qualify the exams. Some 
fellows join Ph.D. career as full time researchers at reputed 
universities or Institutes in India and abroad.
The Department offers collaborative and interdisciplinary Ph.D. programs
 in Mathematics admitting both full time and part time research 
scholars.
The Information Brochure of Mathematics Department.
ii. Details of Academic Programme
Sl No.
Course Name
Duration
Intake
Admission
Qualifying Degree
1
M.Sc (Mathematics and Computing)
2 Years
13
JAM / Through Institute Test
B.Sc.
2
BS-MS Dual Degree (Mathematics)
5 Years
20
Through JEE Mains
Higher Secondary (+2)
3
BS-MS Dual Degree (Mathematics and Computing)
5 Years
25
Through  JEE Mains
Higher Secondary (+2)
4
M.Sc (Mathematics) (2012-2021_Old Syllabus)
2 Years
10
JAM / Through Institute Test
B.Sc.
5
BTMT in Computational Mathematics
5 Years
25
Through  JEE Mains
Higher Secondary (+2)
6
Ph. D
Twice a year through Institute Test
M.Sc./M.Tech
iii.
Detail Course structure and syllabus for M. Sc. (Mathematics and Computing) [PDF]
iv.
Detail Course structure and syllabus for Integrated BS(4-Years) / MS(5-Years) programme  for Mathematics. [PDF]
v.
Detail Course structure and syllabus for Integrated BS(4-Years) / MS(5-Years) programme  for Mathematics and Computing.[PDF]
vi.
Detail Course structure and syllabus for BTMT in Computational Mathematics.[PDF]
vii.
Detail syllabus of Engineering Mathematics for different Engineering Courses. [PDF]
viii.
Rules and Regulations of Integrated BSMS degree course in Mathematics and Computing. [PDF]
ix.
Different Experts visited in the Department of Mathematics. [PDF]
x.
Ph.D. Awarded / Thesis Submitted from the Department of Mathematics. [PDF]
xi.
Name of the Candidates Enrolled in Ph. D. Program. [PDF]
xii.
Departmental Topper list in BS/ MS / M. Sc Program. [PDF]
xiii.
List of the Student Qualified in Different National/ State Level Examinations. [PDF]
xiv.
List of Conference/Workshop in the Department of Mathematics. [PDF]
