Electrical Engineering
Skip Navigation Links
Programmes
Faculty
Staff
Facilities
Research
Time Table
Magazine
Programmes
Skip Navigation Links
Programmes
Faculty
Staff
Facilities
Research
Time Table
Magazine
programmes
Program Educational Objective Statements
PEO-1:
To provide conducive environment for the students, Faculty members and staff to  develop the best teaching learning process.
PEO-2:
T
o develop state of the art Laboratories and Research facilities to cater the challenges in Electrical Engineering to come.
PEO-3:
To encourage innovation and professionalism so that social requirements of rural India may be fulfilled either by indigenous solution or through transfer of knowledge.
PEO-4:
o start collaborative Research with Industries and to cater the future requirements.
PEO-5:
To develop continuous improvement in teaching-learning process to develop state of the art laboratories to cater the present as well as future challenges in terms of local & global standard. Short term and long term goals are set for fulfillment of this mission.
PEO-6:
To develop right attitude and high aptitude so that individual may excel in the Competitive world maintaining high values and ethics.
.
State the Program Specific Objectives (PSOs)
PSO-1:
Specification, fabrication, testing, operation or documentation of basic Electrical systems/processes
.
PSO-2:
Analysis, design, development and implementation of more advanced Electrical systems or processes.
Under Graduate Programmes
B.Tech in Electrical Engineering (4 Years):
This course aims at providing all the facilities
for producing technocrats with sound knowledge in all the subjects such as
electrical machines, power systems, instrumentation etc. including the elective
papers with a strong background of practical knowledge relevant to the theory
papers. Graduates coming out will be able to orient themselves to take up any
challenging jobs in the industry and also will be able to carry out research
and developmental activities with innovative ideas. The students are assigned
with a major project during the end semesters where they carry out the
developmental work under the guidance /supervision of the staffs.
Syllabus of B.Tech (Old Course)
Syllabus of B.Tech (New Course)
Post Graduate Programmes
Electrical Engineering department provide M.Tech
degree in following branches. It aims at providing all the facilities for
training graduate engineers in the field of Power Electronics & Drives,
Power System Engineering and Instrumentation Engineering; so that the students
will be confident enough to undertake responsibility, research &
consultancy work in their respective field. The students are assigned with a
major project during the 3rd & 4th semesters where they carry out the
developmental work under the guidance /supervision of the staffs to strengthen
their knowledge in that respective field of work.
M.Tech in Power Electronics
     & Drives
M.Tech in Power System
     Engineering
M.Tech in Instrumentation
     Engineering
M.Tech in Integrated Energy
     System
Brochure of PG Programme
Ph.D Programmes
Facilities of research are
provided by the department on different appropriate topics that leads to the
completion of the degree of philosopy. On Going Ph.D works.
a) Broad brand frequency conversion using
TIR-QPM.
b) Non Linear Optics
c) Power System Reliability
d) Distributed Generation and its impact on
Power Quality
e) Development of Space Vector Modulation
Algorithm using ‘a-ß-?’ Frame for four leg VSI.
f) Surface Plasmon Enhanced Linear and
Non-linear Optical Devices
g) Deregulated Power System
h) High Temperature Superconducting Hysteresis
Motor
i) Cost Optimization of Hybrid Power Plant
j) Power System Control and Optimization with
FACTs Devices
k) Renewable Energy
l) Non-contact Multi directional Vibration Sensor
using 2-D Position Sensitive Detector
m) Power Quality Improvement using FACTs
Controllers
