Facilities

The Institute is located in the midst of serene greenery having a picturesque natural beauty. It is about 4 km away from the National Highway and about 20 km from Agartala, the capital city of Tripura. Agartala is linked with the rest of the country by air, train and road. It has got direct Air Link with Kolkata, Delhi, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Guwahati and Imphal. The nearest railway station from the Institute campus is Jirania.
The Institute has all basic
infrastructural facilities. It has got adequate number of well qualified and experienced
faculty members and technical & supporting staff. This is a part the
Institute has the following facilities:-
Ø
Centralized Library (Knowledge Centre),
Ø
Computer Laboratory (Department-wise)
Ø
Workshops
Ø
Upgraded Laboratories with the latest equipments.
Ø
Campus Internet (Local Area Network and Wi-Fi)
Hostel Facilities:
The Institute has both Boys’ hostel and
Girls’ hostel facilities. Presently there are 5(five) Boys’ hostels with a
total intake capacity of 3000 and Girls’ hostels having intake capacity of 500.
Medical Care:
The Medical
Unit is well equipped with adequate Medical Officers including pharmacists and
other supporting staffs are available in the campus for rendering medical care
to the students, staff and other inmates in the campus. In case of emergency,
arrangements are made for shifting the patients to the Jirania Rural Hospital
(Primary Health Centre) which is 4km away from the campus. In case of grave
necessity, the patients are also taken to the State Hospital at Agartala.
Banks and Post Office
:  The
State Bank of India and Canara Bank has a branch with ATM facilities operating
from the Institute campus. Apart from this, the Punjab & Sindh Bank has
also an ATM facility in the Institute premises. The Tripura Gramin Bank runs
one branch in the Institute Complex. There is a Sub-Post Office in the name of
‘‘NIT, Agartala’’ in the Institute campus and its PIN Code is 799046.
Extra-Curricular
Activities
:  The students actively
participate in all co-curricular activities like games and sports, techno-cultural
festival, essay competition, drama competition, rallies on various themes, NSS
programmes etc. sponsored by the State Government, Central Government and other
statutory bodies and the Institute authority. N.S.S or N.C.C. is a compulsory
subject for all students of first year.
