Management, Humanities & Social Sciences

MBA
Master in Business Administration (MBA)
About the Programme
This programme is aimed at providing in–depth understanding to students in technical, human and conceptual skills necessary for a successful manager with specialization in different functional areas like Financial Management, Marketing Management, Human Resource and System Management. The teaching strategy for this programme oriented towards the application of knowledge with live cases and teaching aids. There is a six weeks summer internship programme for students, after completion of first year course to develop business acumen. The student has regular interactions with personalities from various Industries/ Academia and also undergoes frequent Industrial visits.
MBA Admission Process
Eligibility Criteria
:
Graduates of full time regular course in Engineering discipline with 60% of marks (CGPA/CPI of 6.0 in 10 point scale] and for any other disciplines with 55% of marks [CGPA/CPI of 5.5 in 10 point scale] with a valid CAT/CMAT/GMAT/MAT/Institute level test score. A relaxation of 5% or 0.5 in CGPA/CPI in a 10 point scale on graduation marks maybe extended to the SC/ST candidate.
Final year appearing candidates may also apply.
A valid GMAT score will be applicable for foreign students only
.
Students appearing at their final year graduation examination may also apply
(with eligibility criteria up to last completed semester) Such candidates, if selected, will be admitted provisionally and candidates have to submit certificate of completion of the graduation degree. If they are not able to fulfill the eligibility criteria or unable to submit certificate of completion of the graduation degree, their admission will be stand cancelled.
Application Fee (Non-refundable):
Rs. 1000/- for OP/OBC candidates and Rs. 500 for SC and ST candidates
Selection Process:
The steps involved in MBA Admission are as follows Step 1: Screening of applications on the basis of performance in entrance (CAT/CMAT/GMAT/MAT examination/ Institute Level Test) Step 2: Performance in Group Discussion (GD) and Personal Interview (PI) Step 3: Profile of the Candidate
Programme Education Objectives:
The Programme has following education objectives:
Programme Objective- I:
Integrate functional areas of business knowledge across disciplines and synthesize functional business knowledge within strategic organizational framework.
Programme Objective- II:
Illustrate ability to apply critical thinking and ethical decision making to complex business problems and exhibit competence in applying interpersonal and managerial skills within an institutional context.
Programme Objective- III:
Demonstrate ability to motivate others to achieve strategic outcomes and create an orientation of personal responsibility, respect and professionalism.
Programme Outcomes:
The Programme has following education objectives:
a) Use systems thinking to describe how core concepts in each functional area relate to and are integrated across disciplines.
b) Identify appropriate processes for making organizational decisions.
c) Demonstrate ability to bring disparate functional areas of business to bear on the formulation of organizational strategy.
d) Identify and describe core concepts in the key functional areas of business.
e) Recognize and explain appropriate analytical methods for solving discipline--- specific business issues.
f) Construct a reasoned critique of an organizational decision.
g) Apply critical thinking skills in making an organizational decision.
h) Relate relevant ethical frameworks to the resolution of a business dilemma.
i) Display proficiency in building a persuasive case.
j) Show ability to manage organizational constituencies.
