Second Runner up of All India Inter NIT Volleyball
Celebration of 76th Republic Day at NIT Agartala
Previous
Next
Student Notifications
Download Corner
Order & Circulars
About
The Government of India converted the Tripura Engineering College to National Institute
                            of Technology Agartala on 1st April 2006 vide notification No. F. 20-20/2004/TS III/ dated 
                            10.03.2006 of the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD), Govt. of India. During 
                            the conversion, Tripura Engineering College was offering undergraduate degrees in Civil, 
                            Mechanical, Electrical, Computer Science Engineering, Electronics & Communication and Production Engineering.
Read More
Vision
Mission
Objective
Director’s Message
The National Institute of Technology Agartala(NITA),an Institute of National Importance (INI) was instituted by Government of India with the mission to herald excellence in technical education and research in the North-East region.
                            The institute was established by the Ministry of Education (MoE) in the era of renaissance in technical education in north east.
PROF. S. K. PATRA
Director, NIT Agartala
Read more
Latest News
19
Aug
2025
TEXMiN CoE Activities
Publication and Implementation of TEXMiN CoE Activities at NIT Agartala/ Invitation of Proposals Technology Development Projects, Pre-Incubation Support for Students, and UG Fellows...
26
Jun
2025
Faculty Development Program (FDP)
The Department of Electrical Engineering NIT Agartala and NIT Patna jointly conducting online Faculty Development Program (FDP) "AI and EV Synergy: Driving the Evolution of Next-Gen Smart Energy Systems (AI-EVS-2025)"
...
View All
Notice Board
Notice for Branch Change for academic session 2025-26.
Notification regarding National Space Day Celebration on 23rd August 2025 in NIT Agartala.
Notification regarding Anti-Ragging Duty Roster 2025 of faculty members for NIT Agartala Hostels.
"All the Results published in the session of Supply (Summer) 2025 are published. Students can check the results from their respective MIS Accounts".
Notice regarding online registration process for physical reporting for UG & Dual Degree student, through JoSAA-2025.
Status of candidates who have submitted grievances for the post of Deputy Registrar, NIT Agartala.
"Physical Reporting of candidates, seat allotted to NIT Agartala through CCMT/ CCMN 2025 for M.Tech / M.Sc. programmes is extended, up to 14th August 2025. Student Reporting time- (09 am to 02 pm)."
Notice regarding bus timing of 01(One) Staff Bus from NIT Agartala to Agartala City.
Notice regarding 79th Independence Day on 15th August in NIT Agartala Campus.
Walk-In-Interview for the post of  Guest Faculty (Physics) at NIT Agartala.
View All
Upcoming Events
21
Nov
2025
2nd International Conference on Information Technology and Intelligence (ITI 2025)
Life on Campus
Our Students
The Institute is located in the midst of serene greenery having a picturesque natural beauty. It is about 4 km away from the 
National Highway and about 20 km from Agartala, the capital city of Tripura. Agartala is linked with the rest of the country by air, train and road. It has got 
direct Air Link with Kolkata, Delhi, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Guwahati and Imphal. The nearest railway station from the Institute campus is Jirania.

Students
Our Departments
There are 9 (nine) branches in B. Tech. Level, 23 (twenty three) specializations in Engineering at Master’s Level and 4 
branches in Dual Degree Level. The institute also offers MBA, MCA, M. Sc. and Doctoral Programs. The institute is also equipped with high-end laboratories 
that ensure an opportunity for the students to work independently.
Read more
Bio Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Electronics and Communication Engineering


Student’s Corner
The Institute has Boys and Girls to accommodate in 4 Boys’ Hostels and 1 Girls’ Hostel.
The Medical Unit is well equipped with adequate Medical Officers including pharmacists and other supporting staffs are available in the campus for 
rendering medical care.

NIT Agartala has NCC unit for Boys and Girls.
The NITA Student Gymkhana is an active student body that acts as a liaison between the students and the administration. The Gymkhana promotes 
the objectives of fostering extracurricular and co-curricular activities and welfare of the students.
The students of NIT Agartala are also participated in the national level Technical Fest organized by different IITs and NITs. They are also actively 
engaged in different technical and cultural clubs.

Training & Placement
Centre for Career Development (CCD) is to assist students in their career exploration and successful job search and to successive placement. The centre provides regular guidance to the students regarding their career ambitions. The aim and objective of the centre is to motivate student to adopt career oriented mindset in conjunction with job orientation. The centre facilitates convenient interface for the companies to interact with students so that it is mutually beneficial for both the student mass and for industry and corporate sectors. Such programs could inspire and motivate young talent towards core engineering sectors in order to meet the demands of the corporate world staging a drive for national progress and to become diligent citizens.

