About NITA
About NITA

Our Vision

Institute is committed to develop highly competent young Engineers, Scientists, and Management Professionals to cater to the ever increasing techno-managerial needs of national and international standards fulfilling professional ethics and societal commitment.

Our Mission

To produce techno-managerial human resource in line with global need offering state-of-the-art facility, research and training in engineering and allied disciplines.
To enhance the effectiveness of technical education with innovative system and devising a mechanism to facilitate application of research findings to solve real problems of industries/academics.
To nurture and sustain an academic ambience conducive to the development of intellectually capable and committed professionals so that an effective growth is obtained for the economic development of the region and the nation as a whole.
To establish as the corridor of higher education for the South East Asian countries.

Our Objective

In order to response effectively to the needs of the society, the Institute aims at
Influencing the technical practices of the Governmental and Non-Governmental organizations through its Under Graduate and Post Graduate teaching programme for the young and prospective technocrats, Training of corporate executives, Consultancy and Research. The research programmes are oriented towards developing technical systems that are most suitable in the Indian context particularly for North-Eastern Zone.
Transpiring the technical knowledge from the Institute level to the entrepreneurs, so that an effective growth is obtained for the economic development of the Region and the Nation as a whole.
Enhance the effectiveness of technical education and innovative system and devising a mechanism to facilitate application of research findings to solve the problems in the industry.

Our Education System

Presently the Institute offers eight UG courses and PG courses in several fields along with Post Doctoral Fellowships. This Institute is autonomous under NIT being act passed by the parliament.
The Institute recently introduced a new curriculum in the line of IITs where more number of elective subjects are being offered to make the system flexible. Previously, the Institute used to follow the mark based system of evaluation, but have been switching over to credit based system in order to keep track with the global evaluation methods. Industrial training, Undertaking projects are parts of the education system and students are also encouraged to take various activities for social development through NSS and NCC.
